ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. [[Pause.]] Good morning. Agenda item 7, questions for the oral response of the President of Galicia. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the manipulation of the public media
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u2	We started with the question of Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u3	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, true information is a fundamental right and a key piece for a free and democratic society. But day after day what we find are examples of information manipulation on Radio and Galician Television, which are literally kidnapped and converted into the propaganda apparatus of the People's Party and very singularly, Mr. Feijóo, converted into a kind of botafumer 4.0 of his figure. And the first ones to denounce this situation are the workers themselves and workers of the public media, who, with their black Fridays, are protesting against a TVG converted into a cortex of the People's Party and the most powerful right, which we end up paying all the Greeks and Greeks. Because CRTVG pays all the Greeks and the Greeks; 100 million euros. The situation in the public is very serious. First of all, they violate the law and violate the function of public service; and, on the other hand, what we see is how they create a reality parallel to the propaganda needs of the People's Party, which also gives a blurry and folklore picture of the reality of this country. Mr. Feijóo, today's Galicia is decades ahead of the image that is projected by your TVG. But there's more to talking about in the chapter of information manipulation. We need to talk about the news blackout in the cities with the suppression of local news on public radio. And we have to talk about the resignation of a presenter and a telexornal presenter just to denounce the manipulation of information. Does this look presentable to you? Does it seem to you that the management of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation — the one you named the finger — has a sentence that condemns her for violating a worker's right to strike on March 8th? Does it seem presentable to you that same address that you named the finger instructions so that in the Gürtel topic the news would be reduced to 40 seconds? And I have to tell you that I have a doubt here. I don't know what's the logic behind those 40 seconds. Is it a 40-day homage that lasted the universal flood? Is it a tribute to those 40 days that Jesus spent in the desert? Or might the subconscious have failed them there and someone said, PP and Gürtel, Ali Baba and the 40 thieves? [[Applause]] Mr. Feijó, without the public and true means, there is no real democracy. It's time to return public radio and television to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Since the BNG we propose an agreement to put an end to the appointments and put in place, with an agreement in this Parliament, a public contest to appoint the Directorate of the Public Radio and Television Corporation to make what is worth and capacity and cease to be digital designations. Mr. Feijóo, it is up to you to return the command to the Greeks and to the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. I remind the guests that under Parliament's Rules of Procedure it is not allowed to take photographs from the rostrum. So I beg you not to use your machines. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, it gives me the feeling that the BNG concept of manipulation on Radio and TV Galega is not well oriented. In the same way that the Galician Union does not pronounce itself on the appointment of any professionals in front of the informationaries or their presentation, you will understand that we are not going to pronounce ourselves in the opposite direction, both at the time of their appointment and at the time of their termination. What I do know is that TV Galega news reports are the ones most followed by all the Greeks: 574,000 Welsh people contact TVG's information spaces. What I do know is that in the last nine years, the Galician Union has not received any convictions for electoral crimes, that is, in the Electoral Union. What I do know is that when the BNG took the Galician Radio and Television Company with the Socialist Party, the management team in three years received twelve convictions for failing to comply with its commitments of information neutrality. What I do know, Your Honor, is a memorable phrase from someone who preceded you as a spokesperson for the BNG. I read: "Information isn't for the families of the councillors to know if they eat or don't eat at home." That's what the BNG spokesperson on the Galician Radio and Television Company said when it was managed by the BNG and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. So the degree of manipulation, which you yourself self-denounced that there was then on the TVG, exceeded any limit of the foreseeable. I repeat another demonstration, nothing more and nothing less than number two of the Bipartisan Government Nationalist Vice-President: "We don't want a single plan of the vice president on television." Your Honor, what manipulation are you talking about, the BNG and the Socialist Party or a television that is leader and record in the English news in your history? Your Honor, we have closed all these last exercises at the Galician Radio and Television Company without deficit, with job stability, with audience figures that are Spain's second best continuously, with support for the Italian audiovisual. And if in the last Forte survey 90% of the Greeks consider that their autonomous television is the one that promotes the culture and identity of their community, eight points more than Catalan television or Basque television, you will understand that you are not right in your diagnosis. Yes, let me remind you of the surveys that were published when you were running the Galician Radio and Television Company — the year 2008 — The majority of citizens felt that GTV's reports were the least objective and independent of those broadcast in Galicia. The Greeks then thought, in 2008, that the chain with the most objectivity and independence in the information broadcast in Galicia was Telecinco; then, Antenna 3; then, Spanish Television; then, the Four; and finally, the Galician Television. Your Honor, what manipulation are you talking about? From the manipulation you want to introduce to all the Greeks by saying that it is manipulated, which, of course, do you know how to handle properly and properly during your time? Mrs. Pontón, manipulation lessons, none.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u7	What I can assure you, Your Honor, is that during these times of difficulty we have made public offers of employment and today there are 193 workers with fixed contracts on the Galician Television. As long as you ruled, none. Mrs. Pontón, I remind you that the manipulations are already in the idea of the Greeks, in the surveys and every time we pronounce ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u9	Every time a Welshman turns on TV or Radio Galega is in the exercise of his freedom by informing himself according to the professionals of those stations. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u11	Mr. Feijó, I'll give you the reason for something. I can't give you any manipulation lessons, you give them to us every day on the newspaper and on the public radio in this country. You're a genius. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And of course, not only are we reporting manipulation. It's just that, Mr. Feijóo, you're being denounced by the workers and workers of the Galician Radio and Television Company. Mr Feijóo, this is the first time in television history to resign — because they have not been stopped, Mr President, but they have resigned — two Telexornal presenters to denounce the manipulation and the pressures they are subjected to. So you can come here to do a new exercise of escapism, but you really know that today you have literally kidnapped public media. And if so, despite what you're telling us today, the truth is that the Galician TV audience has been down since you arrived at Galician Union. For something it will be, Mr. Feijóo, that the Greeks and the Greeks seek information in other ways. So what we are proposing today is a debate about a very serious fact in a democracy, and it is that you have instrumentalized the public media and you are violating a law that has voted in this Parliament and that absolutely jumps day and day as well. That's why we today, Mr. Feijóo, aside from denouncing what's going on in the public media, what we want is to put on the proposed table. Proposals such as leaving and removing CRTVG from appointments to fingers, launching a public contest to appoint the entire address of the Galician Radio and Television Company. You just have to say whether you agree or not. You have a law that collects a professional status and drafting boards. There are seven years when none of this has been implemented on the TVG because they are elements that prevent pressure from being exerted on workers and workers. And you don't want this going on in the public media either. Look, Mr. Feijóo, this is an important issue. It's very serious what's happening right now on the Galician Radio and Television, which is all of them and not the propaganda apparatus of the People's Party. And what we demand is commitments to you, whether or not to a public contest to designate CRTVG's management, whether or not to put the drafting boards into operation immediately? and whether or not professional status? It's very simple: if the answer is no, what you're telling us is that you want to keep holding the command of the TVG in your hand and that's a democratic fraud, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question. Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u13	Look, Mrs. Pontón, with all due respect, how can you say that the TVG's audience has come down? When you ruled in 2005, in 2006 and 2007, we were the fourth autonomous television. And since we're ruling, we're between the third and second places in all of Spain. How can you just say a more manipulation of TV audience data? It is the second most viewed television of all autonomics in 2015, in 2016, in 2017, in 2011! When you ruled, it was the fourth – in 2005, in 2006 and in 2007. But he didn't tell me about it that you reported that the TVG was only worth checking whether the Bipartite advisors were going to eat at home or not. That's what you said publicly. But, in addition, let me read a letter to you in a strict way: "I believe it is my duty to inform you about a situation that impedes the work which is difficult to bear by the professionals of the information services of the TVG, which affects the criteria of professionalism, pluralism and equity and independence that must preside over the performance of the public media." This letter is from the general address of the Galician Radio and Television Company. I want to tell you that you are not this general director appointed by the agreement with the Socialist Party today. No, no, he was from the general manager of the Bipartite. And who was the letter to? Nothing but the Nationalist Vice President of the Galician Union. But do you think you can come here to deceive, firstly, the workers of the TVG and, secondly, the Parliament and the Greek people to talk about manipulation after a director of the Company has to address a vice president of a government of his party, nationalist, saying that he is full of manipulations and pressures on the impartiality of the informationaries and that he is already tired and has to write a letter in writing to a member of the Nationalist Government? But, Mrs. Pontón, what are you talking about? What are you talking about? What kind of manipulation are you talking about when you were ruling, did you think that it was a BNG brokerage for some of the company's programs, both on Radio and on TVG? What do you want? The pact that is currently generating the Socialist Party with Basque nationalists, with Podemos and Catalan independenceists? Is that the TV model you're proposing to me, Mrs. Pontón? Is that the television model you're proposing? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I'm sorry BNG isn't on the Board of Directors. You have six Members, you have no right to be. They could have a member on a proposal from the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party had just made it easier for a member of the PNV to be on the Governing Council with five Members only in Congress. You make up for the Socialist Party and have a member on the Board of Directors. We're not against it, we'd look for a way to do it. [[Murmurs.]] But, Mrs. Pontón, I'm not saying there are things to improve in all public media, of course I do. But neither the Bipartite TVG nor the current Government's Spanish Television are a method and an example to talk about what we should do on Galega Television today. You will understand, Mrs. Pontón, that for us, for this group and for the Government, the more often the BNG goes out on TVG and radio, the better. So the Greeks will really find out that you come to give an example of manipulation when really, Your Honor, if there was a moment of strict manipulation of the TVG and Radio Galaga was when, nothing more and nothing less, the company manager had to address the Government asking for a "suff of manipulation already."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u15	And not only that, but it also banned the Vice-Presidentship of the Nationalist Government from taking images from the Vice-President of the Union because they understood that they did not have enough quality or frequency on the TVG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u16	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u17	Mrs Pontón, let us stop torpedoing permanently what works less badly than the rest of Spain's televisions. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Government of D. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the expected deadline for the momentum of the calendar of change dependent of the Union of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u19	Good morning, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. We are at the end of the current session period, in time of relaxation, almost, of discounts, with a summer spirit. We're also on the equator of legislation, reaching him, at least. We've got the second half left. And unfortunately, the political set has been frozen in these last few weeks in the distance between desires and realities. But there's not much cause for concern because your government has been in the fridge too long because of lack of projects, lack of initiatives or lack of ability to carry that project forward. It is true that the economic recovery that Galicia and Spain have been experiencing for quite a few quarters has partly masked that reality. All the indicators are positive and Galicia is encouraged by international growth, by Spanish growth, and by the efforts of the Greeks and the Greeks as well. But many people and families remain in a difficult situation in our country. The economy's good, but the job's less. Work conditions, wages, they're not up to what they should be. There is work insecurity, and also in the public sector, especially in health care. There is no response to the needs of citizens in many areas, for example in pediatrics. The margin of manoeuvre that the Union has does not seem to reach the living conditions or the reinforcement of public services that citizens would expect after ten consecutive quarters, growing to more than 3%. In public residences, which is one of the serious problems for our elders, there's still no news of a decisive impulse to reach the necessary supply. Missing project, because the project was setting. And once we're no longer in those conditions, there's just inertia. They're playing this new game contaminated by the rhythm of the Spanish selection, on the tram. And I'd rather they play like France and like Belgium, or like Croatia, with more dynamism, with more strategy and more tactical sense. It should be noted that there is a freeze that during the entire session period has not entered into this Parliament any legislative project promoted since its Governing Council, no!, when they had a promise of 11 legislative projects this year. No one came in; the opposition, 12, and by the way, with little success. Notice how frozen your Government has several advisors on stand by. Some of them we can call Hernández syndrome, with the melancholy that produces being destined for a political situation in which you don't want to be, and, in any case, transferring that melancholy and that paralysis to the action of your departments. Where is the strategy for climate change?, where is the law of natural heritage?, where is the law of demographic impulse?, where is the law of employment?, which were promised laws that should drive a change in Galicia. He's two more years old as president of the board. I ask you to use them, use them to develop that project, use them to meet the needs of citizens, actually focusing on strengthening public services, reducing inequalities or creating jobs. And for that, you need a competitive team. I know you're going to have to make more changes than you authorize FIFA in a party, but that shouldn't be a problem. The commitment to Galicia I believe to demand this. Are you willing to push the exchange schedule that Galicia needs to face up to these remaining two years and come to fulfill its 2009 Galicia contract? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u20	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Leicega, I'm glad you're relaxed, low. I want to tell you that the Government of the Union is at the top; therefore, of lows and relaxation, nothing. [[Applause]] In any case, I am grateful that you are finally talking about economic recovery, that all the indicators are positive. I suppose it will not be as a result of a government that is in Moncloa for motion of censure, but as a result that the Greeks have been working to achieve this for many years. But, Mr. Leicega, it seems to me that today you want to mark the agenda, the agenda of an investment debate -- and, as you know, we've been in this legislation for two years now -- or a debate on the state of Autonomy. I want to tell you, Your Honor, that I will have an opportunity to debate with you in October and with the rest of the House spokesmen on the situation of the autonomous community. But it gives me the feeling that you have not yet realized that this Government, since it arrived in 2009, is with a reformist agenda, continuous and constant. Yes, Your Honor, yes. Today Galicia is much better than we found in 2009, and Galicia in 2020 will be better than Galicia in 2018. And that's what governments really take their people seriously and not governments that simply aim to rule independently of what their people say in the polls. You're talking about the labour market. We are the third autonomous community with the highest unemployment rate in Spain. You're talking about getting back. And we've recovered a million... we've already reached more than a million members of Social Security. When we got to the government, there were 1,037,000 members. Today there are 1,006,000 members with fewer active populations. Your Honor, when we get to the government — you will remember very well — 50,000 jobs will be destroyed in the last year of the Bipartite. We've created 27,000 jobs this past year. We've had ten consecutive quarters growing at or above 3%, more than most European Union countries. In industry, we are leading the industrial production index in the industry across Spain. When we reach the Government, crisis in the naval sector, crisis in the automotive sector. In exports, there is historical record, Mr. Leicega. I don't think education is wrong, we have the lowest dropout rate in our history, we have more multilingual centers than ever, and the lowest university rates in Spain. I don't think it's wrong to be healthy, because we have the lowest waiting list since there's records, according to the data provided by the Ministry of Health. 70% of the Greeks live in a health area where we have a new or reformed hospital. You speak of precarious health, but we have over 12,000 approved and agreed with the unions. We've just made a deal with all the unions, except two, the professional career. Mr. Leicega, how can you talk about well-being and reconciliation, if when we get to the Government there were 14,000 dependents and today there are 55,000? And we're above the average in Spain as a percentage of coverage of attended dependents. There are 85% more squares in children's schools; waiting list, zero. Mr. Leicega, I think it's a quite reformist agenda. Now, on the 17th, we're going to talk to the president of the government. I am convinced that we will continue with this reform agenda, Mr Leicega. All we have committed will continue to implement, the solemnly committed deadlines with the country will continue to be respected, we will continue to have a plan for you and me to non-discrimination in the financing of the autonomous community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u23	We will continue to ensure that the interests of public debt are not forgiven to others and that they are covered by the Greeks. Finally, we will continue to move forward the reform agenda. Mr. Leicega, I'm counting on you. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u24	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u25	Yes, if I thought about this, then with an agenda that has some similarity to an investment, it's because somehow you just recovered two years for your government action when you were thinking about something else. And I think that in these two years, your obligation is to rule Galicia, to use that nearly 20% of GDP that the Greeks and the Greeks put in their hands to improve the living conditions of everyone. That's your priority task, your responsibility. But the reform agenda, when it doesn't comply with the Galician Radio and Television Company Act in relation to the professional status, with the Informative Board, with the audiovisual authority and so many other things, because it doesn't seem to be fully met. When he doesn't develop the laws that he approves of his Government, often with our support, such as the Equal Treatment Act, and he doesn't fully implement them, because something is missing in his reformist agenda. When it fails to implement the Social Services Act regulation or the show catalogue provided for in the Shows Act, or does not put in place the strategy against climate change that is compromised, or has many difficulties in thinking about circular economy — which is one of the major axes of the future of the European Union — because something is lacking in that reform agenda. And now that we've had several years of recovery, ten quarters, as you say — and I think this is very positive — I also ask you to recover the MOVE Plan, which was a desire to transform our country's infrastructures, and to put in place again, for example, the North VAC or the scheduled connections in so many places — we have recently been in Carballo with that task. I don't ask for impossible. If you realize it, what I'm asking you to do is move from rhetoric to reality, from mere sentences to effective change, which sets in motion laws that you have adopted — often with us, that we like those laws. But we'd rather they get used to it. Because reformism is that, reformism is not mere propaganda. And you prefer to approve reports — 87 reports in this session, zero bills and 87 reports. That's their reformism, a lot of rhetoric and little agenda for effective change. And, as far as you're concerned, I think you have two temptations — always like to oppose someone, in this case Mr. Sánchez, or the opposition here — has the temptation of the gala village, to let go of everything, or the temptation to use the Junta of Galicia as a conservative wing against Pedro Sánchez. I see the new Government as an opportunity, and I think we must remain firm in defending Galicia's demands, firm, the demands we consent to, the claims that are within the legal framework and the demands that are part of the interests of our citizenship. He'll find them there with loyalty. I hope it works for you at the meeting you'll have next to Sanchez. It will have our support — also President Sánchez — to carry out the agenda that we all give ourselves to Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u26	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close this question by Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. I insist that the debate on the state of Autonomy will take place in October. So we're going to have a chance to talk about everything you want for the kid and in detail. Some of the laws you're talking about me know they're approved by the board of directors. As soon as a law is passed by the Board of Trustees, responsibility ceases to be of the Government. But we have to comply with the public information commitments, of course, and we have to carry out all the proceedings after their adoption by the Council of the Board of Trustees. You're telling me about the circular economy. There's a lot of trouble in Spain's environmental advisors because they're working on the issues of the circular economy and it seems that there's a government minister from Spain who's going to present the work done so far in an international forum next week without even talking to the authors of the reports. That doesn't seem to be very appropriate. It doesn't seem to be more than just taking care of the other people's work. [[Murmurs.]] But, finally, if what leads to the reports of the Greek circular economy to these international forums, we agree. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, tomorrow we will hold a board of directors. Look at the agenda and the index, you'll see how important topics are. It's the first time a government will approve a return strategy. We have a return of young people 21% more than last year. Not bad. I've never seen a return strategy for the Greek communities in Galicia. We're about to approve the forest plan. Mr. Leicega, with whom are you, with the Greeks and with our forest wealth or with other interests? You can prove it again, without any doubt. You have a lot of chance to prove that you believe in Galicia, and that you believe in a reform of the issues that don't work in Galicia. Let's stop using the mountain as a partisan theme. I've been proposing it since I've been President of the Board, Mr Leicega, but I've been proposing it on specific issues. There are some recommendations and there is a report made by this parliamentary group of over 240 leaflets. It is the first time that there is a report of this content, from a technical point of view, that this Parliament can evaluate. We'll see what the Socialist Party's proposal is. At the moment he went to vote against almost everything. But, Mr. Leicega, you don't want to talk about the issues we're going to have on the agenda with the President of the Government. I admire your prudence. I admire your prudence which has changed in four weeks, Mr. Leicega. You say you've been talking about President Sánchez. No, Mr. Leicega, to speak to you about the president, you've already spoken about President Rajoy, and there's not enough hemerothetics to talk about it in your mouth. I am simply telling President Sánchez that I am going as a loyal president, ordinary representative of the State in Galicia, that I will bear no symbol against the Constitution, against the basic rules of coexistence and that I will certainly not ask President Sánchez to do any illegality. So you're counting on a loyal president. And you should put it in value, you should put it in value, without any doubt. [[Applause]] You're talking about changes here. What I propose is that the Government of Spain do not change, do not cancel and do not excuse the commitments it has made with Galicia. And what I'm also telling you is that we, the Greeks, are not going to mark the schedule neither the Basque nationalists nor the Catalan independentists nor Podemos. The Greeks have our agenda, and I hope Mr. Sánchez doesn't mark the agenda of the Greeks through Basque nationalists, Catalan independenceists or Podemos. One respect, Mr Leicega, one respect for which we vote the Greeks freely! So we're not going to admit any kind of interference or any kind of component to just keep a weak president, the weakest president that Spain had in forty years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u29	So I won't ask Mr. Sánchez to ask President Rajoy for anything. I will not change a coma and a word of what I asked President Rajoy to ask for anything other than Mr. Sánchez. What I'm asking is that Mr. Sánchez doesn't change the comas or the words we've compromised the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u30	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the use for the benefit of Galician public institutions and media
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. Mr. Núñez, yesterday the German parliamentarians lived a sad and boisterous day. We are debating in this House the cessation of a valet after having been convicted of the institution of the People's Valedory for its personal intervention in a procedure for the adjudication of a square, in which there was a flagrant violation of fundamental rights and, in addition, obstruction of the court itself by concealing certain information when it was required. We saw yesterday how the People's Party had the opportunity to pronounce itself on that situation, evaluating the cessation or evaluating the valet, and decided to endorse the practices that were precisely censored in the sentence. We saw yesterday an exercise of political endorsement of good plug-in, of classic plug-in, of putting friends, of placing children, of the disciples at the university or of placing the brothers of the political leaders in charge of the administration. We lived all of this yesterday with the rape of all of Galicia, which gave no credit to this political consolidation of an absolutely boisterous situation for democracy. An intrusion that led to the popular party being portrayed yesterday on the side of corruption and the violation of fundamental rights. This was said in the judgment: the valet's personal action would have resulted from the flagrant violation of fundamental rights, infringement of the principle of equality, merit, capacity, and contempt of the merits of others. The People's Party was able to stand on the side of equality and was on the side of the surnames. He could be on the side of legality and was on the side of arbitrariness. He could be on the side of the majority and he was on the side of privilege. And all of this why, Mr. President? Because you carry corruption in your DNA, because it's part of your operating system. And even when you don't, you come to the House to politically endorse these kinds of corrupt practices, a People's Party that yesterday stood on the side of clientelism, the return of favors. That was the sentence, which the valet acted with a desire to favour a candidate, with the intention of favouring her, with contempt for the merit of the other candidates. And you evaluated that. And why did they swallow him? Because he wore the seal of the Fraga family, which weighs you so much. You yesterday, the People's Party yesterday, stood on the side of the obstruction of justice. He stated his own judgment — in replying to the Valator himself — that, as chairman of the Transparency Committee, she was the one who denied information to the Chamber itself in order to perform her duties well. Yesterday, Mr. President, he was portrayed by the People's Party, took out his democratic mask and manifested and displayed without any shame his corrupt practices. You've shown that you're part and that you're part of an institutionally corrupt system that has no drawback in placing people in institutions that then uses those charges to return favors by diverting the power from what they had to do. I ask you a question: if the Supreme Court confirms the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, will you continue to support the people's valet?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u32	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u33	There are a number of statements, once again, that you are portrayed in a very clear way, where you are! Eight hundred thousand Greeks are corrupt by voting the People's Party, we are corrupt. You're talking about families that can't defend themselves. You're simply exasperating and slandering Galicia's largest democratic party. But why do you have to act this way, what do you ask him to do in order for you to do these kinds of shows every fortnight? But do you really believe that you will consolidate your leadership? If you want to talk about how it works in a political party, look at the movements you advocate. That's right, if you've been invited in advance. But is it true that you are often ashamed of what you have written in the Journal of Sessions? Is it true that this is inappropriate for someone who has some knowledge in law? Is it true that judging a person as you did, without hearing it, is inappropriate for any parliamentary system? The valet explained in Parliament. When the valet arrived, you told her that you had forgotten to explain, that what you had to do, before you entered the Chamber, was to resign. Parliament spoke yesterday democratically. The reasons were written in the hemerotheque, and demagoxia is also written in the hemerotheca of the Journal of Sessions. The board didn't appoint the valet, nor does it have anything to do with that appointment. I assume the responsibility I have, but not the responsibility I don't have. The Union respects Parliament's decision, of course. I voted in favour, because, in conscience, I think it was my obligation. Mr. Villares, it was very easy to hand over someone's head so you wouldn't just ask me the question. But to do the easy thing in politics often is to do the wrong thing. That is why, Your Honor, the fact is that there is a judgment that sets up defects in a free designation, which believes, moreover, that confusion and doubts — which the court itself pointed out — could be avoided because it was believed that it did not have all the information in the court file — the responsibility of the institution of the People's Valedory, without any doubt, and not of the court. The judgment was immediately resolved — because you only take care of what they are interested in — and that designation was annulled. Now there's an appeal before the Supreme Court, and I'm sure the Supreme Court is going to rule on two issues. The first: what difference is there between the coverage of a free-denomination square and a square by merit contest? —the first question. And the second: how is it possible that you are responsible for a resolution that does not address it and that you have no responsibility for the one who signed the resolution? I think we have a right to know that matter. Does it not seem to you that we have the right to use all judicial channels in defense of the honour of any citizen? The valet has the right to do so, and the valet has the right to do so. And, of course, the vice-validator who signed the entire procedure from the beginning to the end has the right to be defended, not by his group, but by this group that believes in democracy, Your Honor. How is it possible, Your Honor, that the Socialist Party, which proposed the vice-validator, will not say anything about that vice-validator? [[Applause]] Do you think we're here to solve the internal problems of the Socialist Party? Now, what happens, that the Socialist Party doesn't want that valet and wants to put another one and that's why the people's valet has to stop? [[Applause]] But, Mr. Villares, what is it? Mr. Villares, your role as a pseudo-judge is curious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u34	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u35	It's very curious, but there you are! Now that, as my spokesman friend of the Socialist Party says, you go on vacation, read out the Session Journal and just tell me if what you say in this House is compatible with returning to court. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Villares' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u37	If what I say will be compatible with returning or not to the court will tell other organs, not you, fortunately. Because, if it were up to you, there would be no separation of powers here. [[Applause]] Because yesterday Mrs Prado went up here on the street saying that they didn't have to comply with the judicial sentence and that there was no... that for the People's Party there was no deviation from power, for the People's Party there was no deviation from power and that the responsibilities coming from a judgment have nothing to do with what is being said here in Parliament. [[Strong murmurers.]] Too bad you don't decide who's in every state power! So, fortunately, that won't happen. See, that you reduce the defect in form what the judgment says, when it speaks of Article 62.1(a) of the Law of Administrative Procedure, which explicitly speaks of fundamental rights, of those who are susceptible to constitutional protection, is a democratic shame. And it is to denigrate the rights of the rest of the aspirants who were excluded by a caciquil performance of the valet. And, therefore, you once again stand against fundamental rights and in favour of plugging and clientelism. But, of course, for that we must have read the sentence, we must have read the law, and, of course, we see that it is not the rule of all. Of course, not his, not the people who write the papers to him. You're talking about the other day we told her that the valet didn't have to explain herself. Of course, the fundamental explanation is in the given sentence, or do you want us to proceed to the sentence as you are saying that you do not recognize the judicial proceedings? We do recognize them. He came yesterday to say to Mrs Prado — with the support of you here again — that, well, there were defects in form, which had not been well thought out, that all documents had not been presented; finally, that there had been a bad defence, a bad defence which is surprising for a reason, and that the valet of the people proposed a reform of the People's Valator's Rules of Procedure with the support of the People's Party and with the vote against En Marea, published on 12 February this year in the Official Journal of Galicia, in which Article 7(k) allows the valet to designate freely and decide on representation and defence in court. Go! a reform of the regulation just before the valet had to appear in this procedure of what was finally condemned. Did you know this, Mr. President of the Galician Council? Did you know that this regulatory reform exists with this content? You can explain now if you knew her, because it's a sum of such big accidents... she said yesterday to Mrs. Prado: "It's a sum of accidents." No, Mr. President, in politics and in life not all are coincidences when everything adds in the same direction. It's no coincidence that the selected person had a relationship with the professor of the Valator himself, it's not casual the expert's own relationship — that he's neither a specialist nor did his job well in making the reports of the people who presented the curriculum — it wasn't random that they were certainly designated at the Galician Election Board...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u39	...by the People's Party and that then failed precisely in the issue of that report. It's not random reform of the regulation. It's not random for the designated person. They're all coincidences! Are they all coincidences, Mr. President? [[Murmurs.]] We want explanations and we want to know what you're going to do if the sentence is confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u40	Thank you. Close this question. President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Villares, I understand your personal situation within your group, but you mustn't... [[Strong murmurers.]] I'll check it out when I'm not here. [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, Mr. Villares, if things don't go well — as one of the leaders says to replace them — I don't have the blame, Mr. Villares. If things don't work well in your group, in your group assembly, if you even yesterday a member of one of the groups that form En Marea says you're going from your group to go to another, if you just want to remove it from your position, you shouldn't hyperact, because at the end In Marea continues to grant smaller contracts to the poster signatures. [[Murmurs.]] In the end, Your Honor, The Tide follows with contracts to persons who sign manifests in favour of the Tide itself. And in the end, for example, 11 free designations are cancelled in the Tide of the Crown. You mean there are 11 reasons for the resignation of the mayor of the Crown? But, Mr. Villares, we respect the times and respect the truths. [[Strong murmurers.]] I have no doubt, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u42	Quiet, please! [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Peace! [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Peace! Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u43	I have no doubt that the defence of that case — in my opinion, as a law graduate — is a rather poor defense. And I have no doubt that, if the court had all the information, perhaps the sentence was not the same. But you're talking about separation of powers. You the other day accused a law professor of the work of the Faculty of Right of Santiago, who has taken nothing but twenty-four years in the Electoral Union, saying he had made a report in favor of the valet simply because he was a PP lord. So, what do you think of Judge Villares? Would Judge Villares be disabled to pass judgements at the same time as he was preparing, while he was dictating them, to be a candidate for the Chair of the Board? But, Mr. Villares, it's not like he's prepared for a head of service in a public service. No, no, you were making judgments, and at the same time you were preparing to be a candidate for the presidency of the Union. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares, that's the data and that's the facts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u44	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u45	But, Mr Villares, do you really have the courage to come here and demand the resignation of the holder of an institution — which must be Parliament and not the Union that ceases — after having sat behind you to a Member like you have — since you solemnly asked for your resignation and said that testimony, if seen from a legal point of view, had at least three or four crimes?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u46	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u47	But, Mr. Villares, what are you talking about here?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u48	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u49	Tell me if we're gonna respect the sentence. Yes, Mr. Villares, we are Democrats. You should do an exercise of responsibility and explain how it is possible that you have been making judgments against the Galician Union at the same time as your preparation for your candidacy. And that's going to chase you during your political biography. [[Murmurs.]] It's true I'm probably going after him for a little while. But in addition, Mr Villares, ask me — if the Supreme Court considers this judgment to be firm — what this group is going to do. Take note of the Supreme Court judgment. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u50	Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Villares Naveira asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Villares, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u51	For Mr. President of the Board to remove the last expressions, which are formally unjust, not because I charge them, but because I charge them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u52	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u53	No, no, listen, listen. Because they charge them to a whole section that always makes up three or five magistrates.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u54	No, I think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u55	And, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u56	Mr. Villares, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u57	And, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u58	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u59	And, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u60	No, no, no, no. Political debate, political debate... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, you don't have the use... No, silence! [[Strong murmurers.]] Don't get into this that I'm talking to Mr. Villares. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't get into it. This is a political debate. Here I heard everything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Strong murmurers.]] That's it! It doesn't work. [[Strong murmurers.]] No, no, that's it! Don't mess with yourself, either. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no. No, I don't know... no one here accused anyone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Protests.]] Silence! [[Protests.]] Quiet. [[Protests continue.]] [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You've finished your shift. No, no, that's it! It's over! [[Protests.]] [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, political debate! Political debate! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It's over! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, it's... [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Villares, be quiet! [[Murmurs.]] I call you by order, Mr. Villares. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Villares, I call you by order. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Villares, I call you by order! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Villares, two more and you know what it means. I'll call you in order. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You don't get involved in this. I call you by order, Mr. Villares, once! [[Strong murmurers.]] That's it! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It's over! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It's over! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] We proceed to the cumulative debate of three non-law proposals. In particular, one from the En Marea Parliamentary Group, one from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and one from the Popular Parliamentary Group. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez García and two other Members, on the action to be taken by Junta de Galicia in connection with the achievement of the objective of incorporating the Paço de Meirás into the public heritage free of charge G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament regarding support for initiatives related to the recovery of the peace of Meirás for the public heritage G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, on the position of the Galician Parliament on the conclusions contained in the report of the Committee of Experts appointed by the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order to examine the possibilities of incorporating into the public heritage the property of the towers or palace of Meirás, as well as the action to be taken by the Government of Greece on this subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u61	The Parliamentary Group on the Environment, the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, and the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales have been amended.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u62	We have started the debate, and for that we have, first of all, the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and for a time of ten minutes, Mr. Anton Sánchez. By the way, all the non-law proposals that we are going to debate — those that are accumulated — are about the incorporation into the public heritage of the towers or palace of Meirás.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u63	Mr. Feijóo is leaving so quickly that he can't even listen, he won't be listening to talk about the palace of Meirades. The photos with Martial Dorado are going to chase Mr. Feijóo all his life, that is, of course, and well seen in the succession career of Mr. Rajoy, who said he wasn't the weakest president of democracy but had to escape by corrupt means. [[Applause]] Well, today we're going to talk about a symbol of the infamy and the preservation of the privileges of the dictator and the dictator's family, which can be a symbol of the democratic memory of this country. I'm going to start by reading an interview that was recently made to Manolo Rivas, and he said, "Spain is an amputated democracy, it doesn't make sense to discuss who should have gone to jail anymore, but people must know that a torturer like Billy El Niño is still camping and that there has never been a truth commission. We saw Nazi concentration camps on television, but not Frankists, who had them. You can access U.S. documents, but no documents here. What we can't give up is the truth, it's never too late. Our black series -- the one that says we didn't have -- is in the Civil War books. The difference is that here the Mafia, the criminal organization, was occupied by the state. Incredibly, the suspension of consciences prevailed for many years in justice towards repression and horrors of frankism. One thing is amnesty and another is absolute historical amnesties. I believe that this position of retrograde amnesia, the belligerence against the historical memory process, such rude opposition to the exhumation of the remnants of the disappeared in war and in post-war, the disinterest towards the exiles or indifference to honour the fighters of resistance or the dead in Nazi extermination camps, all this, has certainly not contributed to this country's positiveness, but also to the political and intellectual field that kept that mentality of retrograde amnesia. The right should take that moral step of definitely taking off the Creonte complex. Democracy must settle in a democratic memory." I think these words of Manolo Rivas come to life. Today this Parliament, the German Parliament, can do an act of democratic justice. The property of the palace of Meiraes is an infamy that has lasted for many decades, too many decades. It took us a long time to take the initiative to make a symbol of infamy a symbol of democratic dignity as a tribute to the victims in this Parliament. The surrender of the palace of Meirás to dictator Franco in 1938 was a policeman organized by authorities and members meanings of the Frankish band, who in all cases or in many cases forced neighbors and neighbors to come up with money and land so that the dictator would enjoy the property free of charge without any legal guarantee for those persons and using all kinds of threats and coercion on the owners' families. The free return of the palace of Meiraes, the democratic recovery of the palace of Meiraes, is an act of justice, it is a matter of leaving without effect an act of spoil and forced expropriation of the Franco-Francist dictatorship. It's about recovering for the people dignity and stolen property. And we must also begin by thanking the pulse taken over all these years by organized civil society, and especially by the Commission for the Recovery of Historical Memory. There's a member with us today. Welcome. You also welcome the people who symbolically occupied the palace of Meirás to claim their return to the public. Welcome. Welcome also to the mayor of the Town Hall of Sada. And, as I said, all those people who had been fighting for years when the focus wasn't there, when I was upset. Those people who fought for years are the ones who have made progress in this matter. Thanks to the people who worked to keep the flame of memory alive, we know the infamous story and we know it wasn't a gift from the people. The heirs of the estate, the heirs of fascism, today we hold for making the palace of Meirás the witness of its impunity, the monument of impunity for its proud abuses, of its privileges. There is no more to see how they react to the democratic demands of society, how they react to the symbolic occupation of the palace of Meirades. These people react as they react knowing that they still retain certain privileges that they have retained in this so-called democracy; or how they react to the actions of the council of Santiago to recover the sculptures of Abraham and Isaac by denounceing it. So today we explore the current legal pathways to recover Meirás' palace for the public. And we'll also have to trust the current justice and current legislation when these people are brought to trial, those 19 people — almost July 18th this year — so that everything goes well and is completely acquitted for doing an act of justice. But, I say more, if either of these two things doesn't come out like this, what you'll have to conclude is that this legislation isn't fair and that you'll have to change this legislation. Because, if this is so and this legislation allows us to follow the Francs by enjoying this palace in Meirades or condemn some people for making a symbolic act, it is that this legislation is neither valid nor democratic, and it will have to be changed. We therefore believe that it is a majority will of the Greeks and Greeks to convert the peace of Meirás into a symbol of democratic historical memory by incorporating it into the public heritage, and that the different administrations — the State, the Galician Union, the Deputation of the Crown and the Town Hall of Sada —, in a coordinated manner, target it to public uses centered on the historical memory of Galicia claiming republican and democratic values. And we in the Galician Parliament need to meet that majority demand. Different initiatives have taken place to study possible legal avenues to achieve the goal of civil action and property recovery. The two principals were, one, the creation of the Pro-Devolution Board of the Peace of Meirás, driven by the Deputies of the Crown, which concluded a report which was waged for the civilian road for recovery on the basis of the nullity of the contract purchase contract for the simulation of the contract, and the subsequent incorporation into the national heritage, the public heritage; and the second, the creation of a commission of experts who recently published the report which also involves the judicial route and insists that it is feasible to defend the acquisition of the purchase of the condition of sale of the public domain, and the State is urged for the exercise of civil action for the restoration of its possession. In both strategies, the active participation of the State is fundamental, and it is not incompatible with the timely incorporation of the Galician Union into the judicial procedure that begins. If there are differences in focus, there are differences in nuances, but there is an agreement in fundamental terms: the recovery of Meirás' palace as a democratic repair of an act of polio, and it has the civil road as the chosen way to do so. And that's not much. There are discrepancies, as reflected in the position of the Deputation of the Crown or of the Council of Sada, as reflected in the position of the Deputation of the Crown or of the Council of Sada, expressed in the particular vote as to the compensating hypothesis, based on that assumption of possessors of good faith of the descendants of Franco, which we deny, as they deny the Deputation and the Council of Sada. To consider the condition of good faith of the owners, when the report itself shows that they were fully aware of the origin of this property, I think it is unrealistic and contradictory to the report, which, in addition, calls for the free recovery of the palace. But in this case we believe that discrepancies should not jeopardize an agreement, because we are — I believe — basically agree. Let's not let this chance die. I daresay it would be irresponsibility and disloyalty to those people who've been fighting. We have to act, we have to tell the state to act, and the Union has to join in later. Let's be responsible. We will also incorporate the report of the Member of Parliament into that information which must be transferred to the state and parliamentary groups of Congress. It's two jobs that have their value, which have their work behind, which can serve for that state-relevant action. We include that, we include Galician Union also in the judicial procedure, and I think we can have a historic agreement today. This Parliament must therefore send the General Administration of the State to intervene in the timely legal actions aimed at the incorporation of the peace of Meirás into the public heritage, in which we agree. I think there are at least two groups that we propose to incorporate the Judiciary as well. I think it's reasonable. And we propose, three out of the four groups, that the report of the Deputy be not wasted and that it also be incorporated into that information that must be transferred to the State to initiate, to ask you to initiate, this judicial process. It is time that this Parliament unanimously urges the Government of the State to initiate this judicial process leading to the recovery of the peace of Meiraes for the public heritage and to make justice, because we believe that the peace of Meiraes for dignity must be restored. For all those people who have suffered the repression, for all those people who have suffered the violence of a brutal dictatorship, for all those people who have continued to fight in difficult times, I believe it is an obligation of all of us to this agreement to transfer it to the Government of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u64	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u65	Good day to all and to all again. Allow me, first of all, to greet the people who are following this debate from the rostrum, and very peculiarly to those people who played an act last August 30, which was not only an act of dignity for this country, but also of rebellion, spreading these two tracks in the court of Meirás that say what we all say in theory, and is that the palace is from the Greek people, which is a palace occupied by the Franco family and that the only democratic way is that this palace is returned. [[Applause]] Obviously, I believe that this action was of great importance today that we are debating here about this aspect, and it was also a turning point that allowed the world to expose the democratic aberration that we are living in this country: to see how the Franco family, after a supposed transition that for some it was model—for others, of course, very frustrating—allowed that goods that have been stripped and stolen remain part of the personal heritage. And we are pleased that these kinds of actions are actually for things to move in this country, and that they are moving in a direction that will allow us to end this impunity. Because it's absolutely grotesque what we're living for. I want to remember that this action was done in his moment because he had jumped the news that the Franco Foundation was managing the visits of the palace of Meirades, and that the Board knew it and that he did nothing at all. It was a way of showing our disagreement with that complicity, which continues to be seen in facts like that — that they are still, by the way, managing without any kind of sanctions. And indeed, these are not the only people who are currently being persecuted by the Franco family, because it is very clear that the Franco family believes that it can continue with the policy of fear and with absolutely abusive judicial actions. There are also other people who also spread a sign in Cornide House — which is another example of the police and the theft that took place in this country — and who are already called by the judges on July 18th. And, indeed, if we agree that it is a barbarity to the situation in the palace of Meirás, the logical thing is that this Parliament shows its solidarity with those people who are being persecuted for doing a democratic act. Because it's democratic that we can go to any public space and express our ideas peacefully. That is why we propose today in our initiative that we express this support to the people who have carried out this peaceful and symbolic action in the palace of Meiraes, that we show our rejection of this policy of judicial harassment that is put in place by the Franco family and the Franco Foundation, and that, at the same time, we also do an exercise to put ourselves in agreement on something that is essential, and that fascism is incompatible with democracy. It is incompatible that a Francisco Franco Foundation continues to exist, which says that among its merits, that among its functions, it is exalting the dictatorship and the absolutely reprehensible facts that have happened in this country and that here everyone looks elsewhere. That is why we also want this Parliament today to demand the illegalization of the Francisco Franco Foundation, because it is a democratic aberration that still exists right now. [[Applause]] I insist, ladies and gentlemen, we can see what happened in Germany, I think it's very interesting to go visit some memory centers and see the difference in the treatment in relation to the fascism in the Spanish State and that there is in this country. In Germany there is no Hitler foundation, it would be a real aberration to see a Adolf Hitler foundation managing tourist visits to the Berghof residence that Hitler had. But, however, in Galicia this is still happening. And it is — hence for us — a real aberration that cannot continue because it is harmful to democracy, it is harmful to the victims and it is harmful to the dignity of a country. And indeed, in our proposal there is a fourth point that has to do with other initiatives that are presented here both by the People's Group and by the Group of the Environment, and that has to do with the recovery of the peace of Meirás. And to me, even if it's in a very synthetic way, I'd also like to make a little bit of memory of how we got here. Because I think it is important that we value the past facts to better understand and to appreciate well the contributions that everyone has made and that everyone has made to this debate. Indeed, we arrived here because there was a movement of historical memory recovery that for many years has been crying out against that slate imposed on the truth, that slate that, in a way, was agreed in the transition. We came here too because there are political organizations like BNG and like all the nationalism of the country at that stage that questioned that transition, which was a pact with frankness. And he expressed at that time, as we are still expressing today, that a democratic rupture is necessary to end the serious problems that exist in a low-quality democracy as is the one that emerges from the 1978 regime. We cannot see that people continue to be persecuted today for their political ideas, there are still political prisoners who defend the right to vote for the people, there is still persecution in the Spanish state for ideas, and that is incompatible with democracy. In the meantime, yes, real impunity. [[Applause]] We just saw him today with that complaint that makes Corina that the king was using her as a testaferro by her accounts in Monaco and it seems that this will remain a secret of state that we will never be able to influence. In any case, I want to keep up with that story. Indeed, today we arrived here because there was a government that put in place a policy of recovery of historical memory and declared BIC the palace of Meirás, at the time when Mr Feijóo — absent, as always, in the debates of Parliament — said they were towers that had no value whatsoever. And we came here because there was a decision and social impulse that should end the impunity of frankism. And we give this debate also in a new context which I cannot obvious. After so long waiting for that famous report from the expert committee, there had to be a change of government in the state. I don't know if this has accelerated or decided to publish this report. In any case, it is a minor debate. We rejoice that there is a disposition to be able to address topics about historical memory in a different way. It seems good to us that the Central Government is placing itself as a priority for Franco to leave the Falls Valley. We also want to say that in Galicia we don't want the rest of the dictator, which would certainly be a greater humiliation for this country, which was where there was the most repression. Because in Galicia there was no war, in Galicia there was only one band, which also wiped out thousands of people in an absolutely brutal way. There's the story to remember and it's important. [[Applause]] But just as the Fall Valley is on the political agenda, it must be a priority to recover not only from the palace of Meirades, but also from the House of Cornide and the statues of Isaac and Abraham. Because it's important that there's a commitment and that you don't look elsewhere, and that you don't look for subterfuges to end up compensating the Franco family. Because this would be a new slap in the dignity and memory of the victims. We rejoice that the People's Party — at least formally — is moving fast. Because the PP is the party that assumed that it dedicated zero euros to historical memory, it is the party whose Minister of Justice fired himself in full motion of censure by granting Franco's dukedom to the superintendent; all tied and very tied, in the best Franco-French tradition. Mr. Feijóo's People's Party too is what gave the Franco family 60,000 euros public to fulfill its legal obligation to open the Meirás towers. And, in fact, we're here today with two reports. And I think this is important for us to say, because PP only recognizes a report. And, man, I think it's the least we know there's two reports. A first report that makes the Deputies of the Crown, which opens an important way — and we believe it to be solid from a legal point of view — to regain the peace of Meirás. And a second report, which is the report that made this committee of experts designated by the People's Party, through the Culture Councillor, which at last introduces in its conclusions a clause that, we have to say, is of great concern to us, because it is a clause that opens up the possibility that the Franco family can be compensated for a good that has been polished, that we have already paid all the Greeks and Greeks and, of course, with a high cost not only economic but also in suffering and abuse. In addition, it is a report which I would like to point out is that it is in breach of Parliament's own resolution. Because a few months ago, the PP said you couldn't pay a single euro for the recovery of the Meirás palace. So we think that's the starting point, it's a meeting point, and we present an amendment to all the initiatives that are being discussed, precisely with that functionality. We believe it is important that there is an agreement, but it has to be an agreement that preserves the dignity of this country. There are two open paths. We recognize those two ways. We call on the State that acts. It seems good to us that once these civil processes are initiated, we can also incorporate the Galician Union. But we believe that it is essential that we guarantee today in the agreement of this Parliament that we are demanding that the theft be returned to us, and that it would be a humiliation and a slap on democracy and the victims of franchise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u66	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u67	...that there would be some sort of compensation. That is a relevant issue for us, and we hope that all of us in this Parliament today and all of the groups will meet the challenge we face as a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u69	Well, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a great opportunity to do a democratic exercise and, among other things, to contribute to once again to demonstrating the moral superiority of this system of ours, of the democratic system, of any other form of government, and particularly of forms of government based on denial of rights, fundamental freedoms, plurality and public debate and free of ideas. And I am talking about that we can do an exercise of democracy — because our approach in this debate is not the first time we do so, and what I think we have done with a lot of consistency — for two reasons. Firstly, because, as you know, democracy is something more than the narrow conception, the restricted conception, that it is an electoral competition and therefore the result of free voting and citizen participation through the votes. Democracy is precisely superior from a moral point of view because it is based on public discussion, contrasting ideas; and, along with the possibility of voting, you can speak without fear of repression. Democracy, indeed — as it says, among others, Rawls — is nothing but the exercise of public reason. And I mention that democracy is debate because I want to recall the origin of this initiative, which is the result of a democratic deliberation in this House, in particular the one that took place in August 2017, in a context in which, by celebrating a permanent deputation, opposition groups bring the question of compliance with the regulations that affect the property of cultural interest by the owners, by the Franco family, of the peace of Meiras. In the course of the debate one of the opposition spokespersons, particularly the socialist spokesman, proposed the possibility of doing a commission that would study the legal possibilities of returning Meirás' palace to the public heritage, an initiative that we consider interesting and of which later this other one adopted in September 2017. I mean, unfortunately, only with the votes of the People's Party, although in their exhibitions all groups agreed that it would be interesting to have legal support for this request. And I'm saying this, that it's the fruit of a deliberation, because the Popular Group doesn't want to hang any medals, it doesn't want this to be anything but a joint initiative from the whole House of Galicia. We have said from the very first moment that we are seeking consensus on this issue, and of course I have announced, in relation to the amendments tabled to our initiative and to the exhibitions made so far, that we have no drawback that in the proposal finally adopted we include a reference to those that long before this consensus was generated on the return of Meirás to the public sector in this House fought to make justice in this matter. And I greet many of the representatives of the historical memory associations that accompany us in this session. Secondly, this is a debate that can strengthen democracy. Because, secondly, if anything is democracy is the law, the law understood as the result of popular will and the law understood as the result of the application by independent and independent authorities and always from the beginning of equality of all. And precisely because we want to demonstrate the moral superiority of democracy over dictatorship we believe that, in the face of any discretion and violation of the rule of law of the rule of law of those dictatorships of a personalist character, what it was appropriate to do is, first, a legal study of the viability of the claim. That's what the House asked for. And here today is the Councillor for Education and Culture, who was responsible for the government to comply with this resolution. And it constituted a plural commission from the ideological point of view, from the point of view of the integrated administrations, where they were both representatives of the Sada Town Council, as well as of the Parliament itself, but also of the universities, the colleges of notaries and the registrar schools; a commission which, in addition to plural, was highly qualified technically and which is what comes to our conclusion in the report. It is a report which we, therefore, are prepared to support without any doubt this plural and technically qualified commission, tells us that there is a legal basis for claiming a reversal of the public property of the palace of Meirás. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Education and Culture Counsellor for doing such a well-known task with regard to the debate and with which he called for this House, as well as with the members of the committee, headed by Dr. Núñez Seixas, who had done a great legal and historical job. The document they presented a few days ago in this House tells us that there are specific legal acts and that there is also the capacity for the Board to coadjugate in proceedings where the State decides to take legal action. The president has already stated it and I reiterate it now: it is the amendments tabled by both the En Marea Group and the Socialist Group to introduce a second point on which the Board undertakes to incorporate itself into this procedure once initiated before the corresponding Betanzos court. And we are also willing — I insist — to accept those amendments to our non-law proposal. Because I insist that in this matter we try to be consistent, we try to be consistent throughout the process. You've said something here that seems to me to be unfair to a certain extent. And, as you know, this group and Santiago's municipal group have from the outset supported the initiative of the Town Hall of Santiago, which was originally driven by the Block and hosted by the mayor — hence, by Compostela Aberta — to go along this same way and make a legal complaint before the courts for the return of the figures of Abraham and Isacc to the estate, in this case, municipal public. The group of concelers who are part of the Provincial Deputy of the Coruña supported this report of the Deputy, which was unanimously supported. I mention this because it was said that the PP had not supported the MP. At the plenary session you supported it and, as you will understand, we are now in the parliamentary field with a report commissioned by this House, because we believe it would be good for the other groups to also participate in this unanimity. Why do we support both Santiago and Coruña, the MP, these issues? So I repeat the question and the answer that we have given ourselves, in case it serves you as a reflection so that we can wake up today, merging all the proposals and amendments, a single resolution. The question is, who benefits whether there is unanimity in this House today or not, who benefits? Does it benefit those who have been defending historical memory for years and who can see how today the entire Welsh parliamentary arch agrees to criminally claim the return of the palace of Meirás? Does it benefit or harm these people or does it benefit or harm all the Frankists, real heirs by will of the dictator and all the apologists of frankism — who, by the way, do not fail to say that this so criticized Transition was nothing but a great betrayal of the great principles that Mr Francisco Franco defended? This is the question we ask. We have no doubt who would benefit from this kind of unanimity. It would benefit those who have defended the reintegration of the public heritage, the restoration of justice and respect for the victims of the Franco-Francist repression in Galicia. And it would harm those who defend Francisco Franco's supposed positive legacy. And that is why we are — I insist — open to a consensus that we hope to achieve later, if they are to negotiate with us on the bases where I have just said that we are willing to accept. It is a good time, the change of government, as Mr. Leicega said — and he said freely — opens an opportunity, because he says the Government of the State has a remarkable commitment — and his party — to defending historical memory and that Government Sánchez — literally — will make every effort to return Meirás to the public domain. We are willing to coadjugate, as I said, in those judicial proceedings. We are finally — and we are done — willing to agree. We are willing because we believe that with this agreement, with this unanimity — and I quote again who I have already mentioned in another debate — we are willing to have the grandchildren, in the same way that parents have contributed to taking up the rubble of war, we can also contribute to collecting the moral debris of the worst episode of our contemporary history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u70	Thank you, Mr. Puy. By the unproposed group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u71	Good morning to all and to all. Good morning also to those who accompany us to follow this matter, to all of them. First of all, a clarification. I didn't say at any time that this Parliament is going to be on vacation. In fact, some of us have a commitment to be working until July 31st. What I was saying is that the Government of the Union had been taking too long vacations — which is a different matter — in political terms, in political terms. Let's get into the subject we're dealing with. I want to express, first of all, my satisfaction. I think today is a day when we should be happy. And in some ways, that political regime that some call pejoratively, the Transition, let's say it's the democratic political regime that we all have, and it's also showing its maturity. There is no one here today who defends Franco's legacy here in this Parliament, who defends franchiseism. And I think that must be a cause of full satisfaction for all; not a cause of concern but quite the opposite, of full satisfaction. I also have to say that our group is satisfied with the content of the two reports which, on different ways, were entrusted to different experts, and in which we highlight more coincidences than discrepancies. There is a report that was commissioned by the Provincial Parliament to the Committee on Peace Recovery of Meirais that I think it explains very clearly what is the source and what were the movements in those early years of frankism that resulted in the end of the Franco family taking care of Meirás' palace. At that time, there was what some historians called the "campamental state" and, in any case, a regime that had a deficit of institutionalization that was also taken advantage of to generate that result—where, of course, there were living forces, let's say, not only the institutions but the living forces, which are called at that time, of the province of Coruña which have collaborated very actively—which would open a civil way of recovery which, unfortunately, when this was transferred to the government of Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Rajoy's government, considered it not to be a way to proceed. And I say "unfortunately" because we would have liked this to have been solved earlier. But in any case, we have to take this into account when establishing a strategy that is a temporary strategy. And there's a second report. In the second report to which reference was made, the chairman of the board of Galicia—where, of course, there is also the Deputy of the Crown and the Town Council of Sada and, therefore, it is a plural report in its composition, with a very appropriate technical character and also composed of historians of recognized prestige, such as Mr. Núñez Seixas, Great and others, and also by jurists of different court, even professional, which seems extremely reasonable to us—opens a path which is a path which I think has a huge interest. We bet that way goes on. This look what you're going to tell us is that the palace of Meirás must return to the public heritage because it never ceases to be public, basically. I'm simplifying because we don't have time to explain it in detail either. Its funding was mainly public, through provincial institutions—manipulated by the regime, which at that time had not popular legitimacy but the legitimacy of force—because it was used as official residence by the head of state, because it was managed as if it were an official dependence, at the same level as the Pardo Palace or the Marivent Palace. It was therefore part of the public heritage for these purposes, because councils of ministers and other official acts were held. In other words, everything indicates that it had a public character and was therefore part of the state heritage. When we combine this with the inalienable and uncompromising character of the goods that are incorporated into the public heritage, for we already have the right situation to power, through the civil way, to recover the palace of Meirás due to its consideration of the immanial good that, by the institution of the Uscapio, Uscapion, is incorporated into the public heritage when it has been held uninterrupted for more than thirty years — this case thirty-six years, if I do not tell badly — by the public heritage. With another additional advantage, which is that, once it is incorporated, the same institution cannot be applied by other entities to lose its public character and become private. So we have a proper legal situation. And I believe that coincidences are more than discrepancies and that therefore we must take into account the two reports, although generating them; and generating them, basically, because one of the pathways has already been transferred to the State, and this, in different conditions and through the State Counsel, did not see that we could opt for it. But there's a second. We use this one, and we use the other report as a backup. Because, in addition, I think they complement each other both from a historical and a legal point of view, as to the fact that the first report clarifies very precisely how all iter up to the arrival to the hands of the Franco family of the towers of Meirás. I think this is the fundamental thing and I wouldn't want to lose myself in accessory matters. This is the fundamental thing, we must not lose ourselves in ancillary matters, in extemporaneous matters. I mean, one of them is: what are we going to do with the palace once the State Administration recovers its possession? Well, we'll see. I mean, I think the fundamental thing is not to put forward what might be dividing elements before we focus on the fundamental, which is the recovery of possession. Because there are different ideas about this, it can be a historical memory center, it can be dedicated to the memory of Pardo Bazán, it can be dedicated to a broader memory of the writers of the Navy. I mean, I don't know, I don't have an idea right now. I have an idea but I don't want to explain it here either; among other things, because I don't think it should be the subject of debate in this plenary. And there's a second question raised by the spokesperson for the BNG, which is a legitimate question. We too would like to see this palace recovered at no cost for the public era, that is, without the citizens of Galicia or Spain — because if it does this the state heritage would be the citizens of Spain — they had to come up with even a euro to compensate for investments made since 1975 by the Franco family that were not amortised today — if any, perhaps none remains. But, in any case, you know that this is going to have to decide a judge, it's going to be a judicial proceeding. Open the court procedure, and we're not going to be able to determine from here what that compensation will be or will not be. If they ask me, zero compensation. But fortunately, they won't ask me why this has to do with justice. And I am not in favour of the seizure of these goods, I am in favour of activating judicial proceedings, because that is part of the rules that have this democracy and the rules that we have given ourselves among all. Let's mark a political position. We want to get the palace back, take advantage of the opportunity that there is a government sensitive to these issues. Governments have their priorities and the current one is sensitive to these issues. The new Director General of Historical Memory, under the Ministry of Justice, is a defender — let's say — of the impulse to historical memory. Let us take advantage of this question to show our unanimity, which is what can strengthen Galicia's position for the recovery of the palace and, once this is done, that justice acts and that we can happily recover it. And then we will decide — whether the State administration has the advantage or setting a political position in Parliament — what their destiny should be. I think this is the fundamental thing, so we don't present an initiative on this subject. We didn't introduce it because we didn't want to go to a confrontation with the initiatives of the different groups. We wanted to find a consensus solution that I hope can be achieved along this whole. We're in favour of this and we're going to do everything possible to get this solution to go forward. We believe that it is the best contribution to the interests of Galician citizenship and to the proper treatment of historical memory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u72	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Replica from the authors of the non-legislation proposal. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u73	Well, it's getting clearer after hearing all the speeches. Various punctuations. First, in reverse order, to the socialist spokesman, to Mr. Leicega. I'm surprised that in the matter of fate, let's say that it's dedicated to remembering or to democratic historical memory is somewhat divisive. It's amazing. I think this whole thing has a political intent, and it surprises me. I understand that. With regard to compensation, the possibility of compensation provided for in the report of the committee of experts, we are opposed to considering it precisely because of its reasoning, but because of its reasoning ended with the contrary conclusion. I mean, why anticipate that conclusion? If a judge then esteems the lawsuit and sets a fine, you'll see what's done. But in anticipation, and much more with the foundation of considering good faith possessors the dictator's descendants, it seems to us that it makes no sense. How can the dictator's descendants be considered good-faith owners after reading the report itself, which obviously shows that they knew fully and fully knew the origin of this property, the illicit origin of this property? So that's why we assume that we don't have to include that. But, well, as I said, we believe that today we are giving priority to an agreement, and an agreement, to be able, to be united in this Parliament. And I think we can basically agree today. The fundamental thing is to ask the State to initiate the civil road for the recovery of the palace of Meirás and to include the Council of Galicia in the judicial proceedings at the appropriate time. And I also ask for the inclusion of the two reports in that documentation to be transferred to the State. It'd be a fool's genre or it wouldn't make sense to deny that information to the state's lawyer for him to have it. There was a job behind the board too for the return of the palace, those experts who did an ingenious job at the historical and legal level. How are we going to deny this information to State Counsel so that it will then establish a legal strategy that will depend on State Counsel and that it can raise questions from both reports? I just think he's falling from the drawer. If those lines are included in that agreement, in Marea, of course, will support it. With regard to what Mr. Puy said, we prioritize the agreement today. I could discuss many of the statements you have made here, and we will have time to discuss also historical memory and the coherence of the People's Party in the struggle against historical memory. Because I think there's a difference and I don't think it's that coherence. And there are many examples that in the People's Party, there's still some piece left to go through in that line of having a perfectly democratic attitude. I don't want to introduce distortions in this debate, but even today that Pablo Casado is coming to Galicia has made statements that "talking about the pits is a very bad thing," or Mr. Rafael Hernando, who is a spokesman at the Congress of Deputies, who said that "these only move when there are subsidies," which are infamous statements. But I know there are differences, but we also believe it is positive that the People's Party today is prepared to approve with all groups an agreement to claim that the peace of Meirás returns to the public and is once again an example of democratic dignity and not an example and symbol of infamy. So we'll have time to keep discussing it, but I think it's good that we have these points in common. And the point in common that I think we have the four groups of the House, and that we have to form in the agreement, is that it has no cost for the public archives. That's why I think we should agree on that, because the agreement that led to the creation of the expert committee also included that. We therefore fully respect the report of the committee of experts, but nothing happens because politically we decide here to include that it must be without any cost to the public archives. I think it is not to miss out on the experts who did that work and included that possibility, even though we disagree. I think that would be good because I thought there was consensus on that. If then it's estimating, which is a difficult road, we'll see what happens if the judge marks compensation. And, therefore, we believe that with all these matters there is a margin for an agreement. I already say that, in any case, we will also fully support the non-law proposition of the Galician Nationalist Block. If there is no global agreement, we will also support that non-law proposal. But we want there to be a single agreement because we believe it would be historic and it would, as I said, be loyal to all those people who fought to make the palace of Meiras a democratic symbol and that once and for all, the privileges of the dictator's descendants, who still boast their impunity ahead. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u74	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. We'll wait later, in case there's an agreement on the amendments you have. We wait to see if there's a general agreement. Because there are two amendments... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, it's just that you have to speak to Mrs. Pontón first. She'll go first. But, of course... No, no, no, the shift is the turn, and it corresponds first to Mrs. Pontón. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But you in your proposal have two amendments, one from the Nationalist Block of Galicia and one from the PSOE. Well, we hope that... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, of course, I have to go knowing whether they're going to accept or not to accept; if not, then at the end... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Okay, okay, okay, right! If everything goes to the end, it goes to the end. There's no problem. Zero complications in this matter. [[Murmurs.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u75	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. In this debate on democracy, the 1978 regime. Mr. Leicega did not like our statements about this. I still believe that this is an absolutely logical position from a democratic vision. Because, indeed, democracy includes respect for the law, but also respect for denouncing and revealing itself against those laws that are unfair and that violate fundamental rights. Of course, Mrs. Parks would be arrested in this Spanish state for saying that no law had the right to discriminate against her to sit in the back of a bus. [[Applause]] And that's also the view of democracy that we have here, because we're looking at how the stateless nations want us to go in the back of the bus. Because in this Spanish state the existence of nations without a state is not recognized, the right to recognition and self-determination is denied. And besides, there are people who are in prison precisely for defending that right. So there are some black wells and a low democratic quality in this state that is obvious. Just as it's shameful that impunity for the crimes committed during frankism still exists. Forty years later and there are people in the coupons who haven't seen their memory repaired because whoever committed those crimes remains absolutely unpunished. So if that's the conception that you have of an advanced democracy, I'm telling you that we don't agree with that conception of democracy. And it is clear that there are very important deficits in the Spanish state. Well, the People's Party comes here saying he doesn't want to put on medals. I understand it, because it's hard for you to put medals on a subject like this; very complicated with all the history behind the People's Party in relation to the policies of historical memory. Mr Puy was talking about voting in favour of the report of the Crown Member in the plenary of the Crown and, however, they voted against it here. And if they were in favour of the Crown, why did they vote against when the BNG brought an initiative to this plenary so that we could back it up? And indeed, the People's Party in Madrid said, "That way, no; that way we closed it." We don't agree that this is a dead way, we think it's a solid way. And, therefore, if the PP — now that there is a change in the state — seems to him to think it's a way that can be explored, we think it's a good change of criteria. But let us not discard any of the initiatives or any of the possibilities. Here too we go back to a stage where we're told that the important thing is the deal. And I say, of course, the agreement is a means for an end, and what we have is that we really agree on what the purpose is, because the agreement can be beneficial or harmful. If the deal is that we compensate the Franco family, we're not going to agree because it looks like a beating to the memory of the victims and an indignity to this country. So we say that the agreements are positive all the time and when the ends that we're looking for are the ones where we can have a meeting point. [[Applause]] Today we are not debating here what the judges will say. So I was also very surprised — and surprised the other members of that commission — that at the last hour a fourth conclusion had been introduced in that report where the way was opened for the Franco family to be compensated on the basis of an issue which is a little long and which does not give us time here to be able to include. So we say: why is this issue included, that it does not have to do with the political appraisal that we have to do in a parliament or what is to be done in this report? Because -- I insist -- this includes the last hour. If the objective we are looking for here is the return of the peace of Meirás and that it is only meridianly clear that this Parliament feels that there is no need to compensate the Franco family, I understand that we are not going to have any problems, we are going to all agree. Because there is also a question that — I insist — if you put yourself on the initiative, we are worth it, and it has already been part of a PP initiative. And it's the one who says that the palace of Meirás has no new cost to the people of Galicia, who already assumed it at the time. This seems to us to be a matter with which there is no problem. I imagine the People's Party won't put any obstacle to us having such a deal. Because — I insist — we are not here to decide what a judge will do and how he will determine a judicial process, but whether the political groups we are in this House believe that the Franco family must be compensated, yes or no? It's as simple as that, and therefore we: return the palace of Meirás? [[Applause]] Yes. Indemnify the Franco family? No, no, no, no. It's as simple as that. If these are the basis for the agreement, of course the BNG will be here as it has always been, working first from the base, in the associations of recovery of historical memory, bringing this debate when the People's Party systematically voted against it. And, of course, we will rejoice and celebrate the day that this palace is returned to Galicia, because it is a fundamental issue. And of course it's important what the fate of that palace will be. Because if we eventually converted a circus into a space that has that symbolism, it would also be a poor way to solve this issue. We think it has to be a space of recovery from historical memory. We make that proposal. We think it is important that this is also part of the debate because, indeed, in the recovery of historical memory there are tremendous lakes in this country. And Galicia also has its own agenda of historical memory in which we expect the Government of the State to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u77	...don't leave this thing parked again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u79	Well, thank you, Mr. President. I repeat, we're looking for a consensus. Clearly, consensus implies generosity, it does not mean that we agree absolutely in everything. Therefore, to bring up questions where we do not agree that it is not the way to seek consensus. We obviously don't live in a perfect democracy, but I think comparing this with franchise is something that's not happening right now. Because fortunately we're in an imperfect democracy that gives a lot of turns to any dictatorial system, especially to franchiseism. The Deputy's report confirms it to State Advocate, and National Heritage; that is, we are in legal terms and not in political terms. I hope there is political influence so that the state lawyer, in the light of a report that does not say exactly what the previous one, is receptive to these legal arguments. But I want first to thank Mr. Leicega and Mr. Sanchez for their interventions. I think we agree on the fundamentals. I think there's an illusion in people who've been fighting for this step for years. I think there's a legal and historical basis for making this claim and this is the first time that four governments are willing to take part in a judicial action to recover Meirás. We are willing to participate in that action, as the president has said and I repeat it today. And we don't do it out of convenience, we do it because there's a legal argument. And in addition, we support including a fair mention of those who have been claiming for years to return to the public heritage of the palace of Meirás. So this is the fundamental thing. And I advocate that we all agree on these issues. There is no agreement — I mean the amendments, which is the shift on the amendments — in matters that basically refer to putting the car before the oxen. The first is the fate of the palace. I think that's a problem I wish we could face. Some considerations have been made, but the process we know is going to be complicated. I wish we could win and have the problem of knowing what to do with the palace of Meirades. And even all those who have been suggested can also be welcomed; i.e., there is no need to close the door to any particular one. For now we know it's BIC. And we know that it's BIC for some reasons, that it's those who are supposed to be honored at the moment that this — I hope! — is public heritage. The second objection, I think, is a misreading of the expert report. The expert report, which is technical and legal, is what it does to warn — and I read literally so that there is no doubt —: "This consideration implies that the reintegration of the towers or palace of Meirás into the field of public domain goods, to the general government of the State, possibly, could represent a cost for the public era." And he adds — which is important —: "No prejudice also to any compensation that falls between the parts of the settlement procedure of the possession State as a result of the use by the tenant-cause of the head of State prior to 25 November 1975." That is to say, the report itself says that in any case it is considered that even if this liquidation were to be favourable to current owners, it would be far from real value, etc., and so forth. I mean, there we're talking again about putting the car before the oxen, because, if you eventually have to liquidate the possession state, it means that if you've earned the price, they can ask for compensation for the expenses made but that the State can also ask for compensation for having enjoyed the palace for forty-five years without paying a rent and so on. Well, let's get the deal. I have no drawback — more than for you to look at the advisor for [...]...... I have no drawback in making a reference in the non-law proposal to which, on the assumption that a claim is made by the progeny-cause of compensation, the State is positioned to avail itself of all that it cost the State not to enjoy this and, therefore, if that possibility is given — that we wish it to give itself — that we have recovered the peace and that it is necessary to compensate for these expenses, that the State opposes and that it counters the exhausting costs of the State itself for not having taken advantage of the public heritage for forty-five years, the court of Meirás. The third question, as there is agreement, I'm almost unable to say it. It has to do with the conflict that affects some of the present, some of those who are known. We defend the rule of law, I believe that Parliament should not be wet on a matter which is under the judicature and which has unilaterally posed a political force. But I also want to say something else, Mrs. Rodil — before she starts to laugh, because I see you having fun. You have no doubt that this People's Group, in a price between the people who have occupied the palace symbolically and the Franco family, supports those who have gone to Meirás' palace and not the Franco family. Don't you have any doubt about the sympathy of the People's Group on this issue. Let's see if we can make a deal. I want to make a thank you. I don't know if you're with us in this room, but I heard the statements made last June by President of the Coruña Historical Memory Commission, Mr Fernando Souto. It says in them that this is a very exciting moment; it even says, in relation to compensation, that it is a minor issue and that the important thing is to believe that the peace is public and to recover the palace. And he says a sentence that I want to thank him for, because certainly on this initiative this person made some statements that also served us as a trigger to work on this matter. He says there are convulsed periods in history that require a digestion and I think we're at a time when we should congratulate ourselves. Democracy is in a continuous process of maturation, and this is one of those points of democratic maturation. This is a turning point, the recovery of the palace will be a wonderful moment that hopes to live. We trust that we can all live it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u80	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the compliance, application and development of the Law 2/2014, of 14 April, for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u81	Amendments have been tabled. There is a self-amendment of the Socialist Group, an amendment of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and an amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u82	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u83	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. First of all, I want to welcome the people who accompany us today in the guest gallery, people who have been fighting for the rights and freedoms of LGTBI people for many years, but ultimately fighting for better democracy, because the consolidation of their rights and freedoms is that of all citizenship. On 25 April 2014, the Law was published for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia. With this law, driven by the PSdeG, we were the first autonomous community to legislate to combat discrimination by sexual orientation and by gender identity; to eliminate, to remove, to remove, those barriers in all fields, in culture, in sport, in health, in education, in labor relations, in everyone, in access to any good or service. A law that also challenges the public authorities of our autonomous community to establish a fluid dialogue with LGTBI entities. During these years of vigil, and as they have repeatedly denounced these entities, the Greek Government has failed many of the commitments that were reflected in this law; a law that must be remembered that it did not have any vote against this House. And why? Because the People's Party has used this law, this rule, to clear the bad image of a right that has always stood against guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of LGTBI people. And when he thought he already had his face clean enough, what he did was put this rule in a closet. What has been done in the last four years, in addition to the serious breaches? There were serious non-compliances because there was talk of dialogue with entities when the only thing that was done was timely help. They didn't even count on them when they set up that centralized unit in Santiago de Compostela, a unit to which it is mandatory to go, which people are not asked if they want to go. It's a unit that has severe eeves and has been working for more than a year. It's a unit that announced the president of the Galician Union himself days before the People's Party had rejected the Gender Identity Law in this House. Especially serious were the misdemeanours with the minors. The Law collects the implementation of this training in educational centres. There was absolutely nothing done either in primary or in bachelor's school, and, if not too little, they allowed the dissemination of homophobia and transphobia in teaching centers — in a country where more than 50 percent of transsexual minors recognize having suffered some aggression throughout their lives. And I say this because you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, were the ones who prevented with their vote against the withdrawal of these shameful brochures from Making You Listen to a non-law proposal presented by the Socialist Group. [[Applause]] CIMs are not working properly. There are very great professionals in these spaces, but they don't have enough training or information to advise those people who go to these centers. We have denounced him on numerous occasions. There is still no concrete action to guarantee that equality in the labour market. More than 90 percent of transsexuals are unemployed. By default, they have failed to comply with the additional provision of the law where it is collected that you have the obligation of the Government of Greece to submit a report to see how the law is being applied; a report that arrived with more than one year's delay, a report in which half is dedicated to collecting normative data and other institutions and the other half to fill pages with photos of the Government of Greece. But nothing, absolutely nothing, about the fulfilment or not of the concrete articles. That's why we present a self-amendment for a detailed assessment of the degree of compliance of each article of this law. They didn't develop the law either. And something important and recent: they stole from this House the debate about the Greek Gender Identity Law, a bill drafted by the LGTBI entities that the opposition moved to this House and that you prevented with your vote that you could debate. A rule that is in force in many autonomous communities, some governed by the People's Party and others for years, as in Navarre since 2009 and in Euskadi since 2012. Cotton doesn't fool. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are still the engine of the bus in Hazte. They went up to him, and not even the aspirations of the citizenship of Galician people to guarantee the rights and freedoms of LGTBI people get off that bus. And I'm saying this because last week two national media outlets posted a shameful page of publicity for this homophobic and transfoba entity, a voting guide in their internal election process. [[Applause]] No one from the Galician People's Party, no one from the Greek Government, went out making a stand against this, no one. And why? Because Hazte Hear is the People's Party and the People's Party is Make Hear, precisely for that. Today, from the Socialist Group, taking advantage of the special envoy of Hazte Hear, Mr. Casado, we ask his companion, to tell his companion, to publicly reject this publicity that has been made, in which, of course, he goes out well. In a while we'll know who paid this publicity, because it's two consecutive days in two national media outlets. During these years nothing has been done since the Government of the People's Party of Spain, only to put sticks on the wheels to the group of LGTBI people. The debate on numerous laws in the Congress of Deputies. We've already announced that we would return every woman's right to undergo artificial insemination treatments. The Socialist Party will not ask these women their sexual orientation or ask them, as Mrs. Mato said, whether they know a man or not, or whether they decided to have that child alone. [[Applause]] We will support "trans law" in Congress. And we will also put in place a subject that we have pending: a law of equal treatment at the state level. It is unbearable to live in a country where more than 36% of homophobic assaults — about 90% without reporting — have increased in the last year, and where four out of five children have ever suffered some aggression in their lives. Ladies and gentlemen, it has cost a lot of work and a lot of effort to bring forward the Law on Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination of Galicia; in particular, by those spokesmen who participated in that debate. And I want to have a special recognition today to my colleague, Mrs. Gallego, of the PSdEG, who has pushed this law, and also to those who have participated in these negotiations, the lordships Adam, Solla, and also to Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, you. They were trying to guarantee freedom, just as in that amendment of the Civil Code that made it possible to marry people of the same genre; to collect that torrent in the streets of struggle for the rights and freedoms of LGTBI people and to transfer it to the Official Journal. We did that. But the most important step was to move it from the CEO to people's lives. That's still pending. Today what we ask of you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party — and I am particularly addressing you — is that you get off the bus from Hazte Listen once and for all and go up to the fight for the rights and freedoms of LGTBI people. And thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. You have the floor, on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u85	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, too, to the people who accompany us on the guest bench. I, more or less briefly, will try, in addition to taking a position on the initiative by BNG, to explain why we tabled an amendment to replace one of the points which referred to the delivery and referral to this House of that report which is collected as an obligation in the law itself and which, as Mrs. Blanco had already explained, had to be referred to this House a year ago. It wasn't like that, it was barely fifteen days ago. And we replaced the referral of that report by the endowment of a specific budget match that is collected in the budgets of the Galician Union in 2019. Because it seems to us — and we have often defended it — that Galicia was a pioneer, was vanguard in many areas. It was when it was unanimously approved in 2007 that Law on the Comprehensive Prevention and Treatment of Male Violence, it was once again becoming the first territory to incorporate into its legal system that Law 2/2014, which was fundamental despite the fact that it had many evas, that — we said it at that time and we repeated it every day and every time we have opportunity — it was a child, that we needed a chapter of sanctions and that we did not allow ourselves to move forward in what is now a path that does not go back, which is the dispathology of transsexuality. And I'm with Mrs. Blanco that Galliza could follow the vanguard by leading the texts and legal orders, not only from the Spanish state but from many countries around her in the European Union, if she admitted her trial in this House that German Gender Identity Law. But laws by themselves, though they are absolutely necessary and indispensable for formal recognition of rights, do not transform reality. What makes things change is the political will and above all the political action that causes things to change, the frameworks to change. And that's where the amendment presented by the Galician Nationalist Block enters. In order to be able to shape on the role that political will and political action are necessary economic resources, material resources and human resources, which are essential to ensure the exercise of the rights that appear in Act 2/2014, of equality and non-discrimination of LGTBI people in our country. We wait that way, and we've already talked about it to the spokesman of the Socialist Party, that if we take into consideration how close we are. Mention was made, reference was made to the intervention of the spokesman of the Socialist Party, to that report that we were sent to this House, an absolutely chaotic report that has more than a big straw. But that chaotic structure of the report is also a reflection of something, because people say a lot about how we do things. And that chaotic structure, that report that's more than big, in many respects is a reflection of a Board that, in addition to sending it late, ill and the trail, pressed by the collectives who had come demanding it for a year and even by the initiatives that presented the opposition in this sense, what it makes us see is that it had only one objective, that it was to cover the file, that no one could put it in his face that he hadn't done what the law itself collected. But what is also evident is that you don't value this report or you don't perceive it as a work of absolutely necessary diagnosis in any public policy. I insist, that it has more than a big straw, because of the discomfort with which things are done, the lack of planning and lack, above all, of that will of political action that is absolutely necessary for that law not simply to remain in formal recognition and truly transform society and allow us to move towards a more equitable, fairer, more respectful society, but, above all, more proud of the diversity that composes it. And since the BNG we have no time to sink into the various aspects that embrace that law, a law that is transversal, that reaches the whole of the areas and departments of the Government of Galicia. We believe that this report also shows that very little or nothing has been done in many of the areas that are fundamental to their development: very little has been done in compulsory education in our country; very little has been done, for example, in promoting schools of mothers and parents as fundamental elements of socialization and transformation of society; nothing has been done in the level of the media...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u87	...that they are fundamental — and I am finished — to transform also the perception that society has of itself; and little or nothing has been done to move forward in one of the fundamental tools that make up that law, which is that observatory, which is a fundamental instrument for the participation of the collective itself, so that it is the collective who follows and evaluates that law. We hope that our amendment will be taken into account, and for my part, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. You have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal Ogang.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u89	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all, and a special greeting for all the people who accompany us from the rostrum. I'm going to begin my intervention by giving us some of the data that tell us how far we are from achieving equality, from eradicating the discrimination of the LGTBI collective, and which points to the enormous responsibility that we have for society and administrations, institutions, in fighting against these discriminations, which we are collaborating with, or are allowing when since the administration is not acting, as is what is happening with the Council of Galicia. There are numerous studies showing us year after year that sexual harassment and gender identity is the main consequence of our schools, such as the main cause of school harassment and bullying. We also have studies that tell us that 57% of gay minors are suffering some kind of psychological or physical violence in schools and that 43% of these young people have identified suicide, 35% have been planning it and 17% have tried it. This means that the adolescent population LGTBI is about three to five times more at risk of suicide than the adolescent population as a whole. This data gets worse and worse and double when we talk about trans-children. More than 80% of the trans girls thought about suicide, and 41% tried it -- we're talking about double -- And more than 80% of trans adult adults are unemployed. And what did the People's Party do about legislation and this situation? Keep Law 2/2014 stored in a drawer and vote against taking into consideration a trans-law elaborated by the collectives. We said, when we defend the law of gender identity developed by the collectives, that we need to eradicate LGBTI-phobia from the streets but also from the institutions. One of the main hate crimes in the State remains sexual orientation and gender identity. We don't have any Greek studies, there's no kind of interest on the part of this government to analyze the situation, to see what we need to do to change it, but if we have studies from other administrations. The Madrid observatory collects 239 cases of hate crimes on this issue in 2016, and all the observatories report that it is only reported between 10% and 20%. So we can get an idea of the dimension of this problem. The Eurobarometer collects that, for Spanish society, gender identity is the most widespread discrimination, and thirdly, behind ethnic origin, discrimination is found by sexual orientation. And what has the People's Party done all these years in the face of this situation? First, they criticized and manifested themselves against equal marriage. They made fun of it and said the apples had to be with the apples and the pears with the pears. When the opposition introduced a law, as was the case... — This happened, come here and say it's totally against those statements. — The Socialist Party presented what then ended with Law 2/2014, and what the People's Party did later was totally rid of it, not unroll it and keep it in a drawer for these four years. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They campaigned awareness-raising at educational centres, which [...], which was criticized by the collectives. [[Intelligible.]] They hung on the Council's website the protocol of action with children and trans children for study centres, which was carried out by a social group. You just hung him up on the web and didn't do anything else at all. When an initiative was brought to this House to remove the transphobic booklets from schools, you voted against it. It's easier for the Galician Union to find transphobic brochures in schools than brochures that educate on equality and diversity. They announced a reference center a year ago — pathologist, as you announced it, and ghost — from which we have no information. You don't know who the management is, what they're doing, how many people are attending... You don't know anything at all, a ghost center. PP LGTBI policies are those of inaction. We have the laws, but now we must comply with them. We also tabled a amendment in the line that a real report should be made, because the report that just pulled out the Galician Union is a real fraud, it's a cut and paste, it's a run forward to get the headline out and it looks like -- whatever line you're following -- that they're doing something when they're actually not doing anything. It's a hundred pages like it could be three hundred or it could be five hundred or six hundred, because content is what it is. Even page 36 doesn't actually start the report. The rest are cut and taken from state laws, international reports, photos and drawings very large to make a very large document but it does not respond to its objective. It's an absolute lack of respect, a waste of the time of people who want to read the report and spend hours reading questions that nothing has to do with it. It's done wrong, it's done running, and it's noticed: big photos, cut and grab standards and some campaign they did put there. It's a real disrespect. It collects things but only descriptively, nothing analytical or quality control. And a clear example is when they talk about the reference unit. This is what he says textually, which says of his director: "The head of the unit is a pediatric endocrinologist, mental health unit infantewuvenil, nursing staff and other support staff.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Who did this? Oh, my God! You have no interest in explaining who the director is, what you're doing, how many people have responded, what kind of consultations they've made. Nothing, absolutely nothing! They have no information. It's a smoke bomb. Therefore, the message is clear. When you are neutral in a situation of injustice, you are on the side of the oppressor. We repeat that we must eliminate LGTI-phobia from the streets and from the institutions as well. We hope that we can reach some kind of transaction so that we can take a joint initiative, that this initiative can go forward and that the Galician Union will once and for all work on defending the rights of the LGTBI collective. There's nothing else on our side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u90	Thank you, Mr. Cal. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. I also want to greet the people who accompany us from the rostrum. The truth is that I am quite surprised, because the initiative presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in writing, in which we fully agree, has nothing to do with the speech you made, with the defense you made of it, with the plague of inaccuracies, and of what I'm going to give you two examples. First of all, you're talking about the fact that lesbians don't fit into assisted reproduction care in Galicia. You say in Madrid the People's Party is against it. In Galicia, health care is for all women, and there is no discrimination for their sexual orientation, Mrs. Blanco. First inaccuracy. [[Applause]] The second inaccuracy is that we are against transsexuality, that we are against carrying out a law that defends transsexuals. Nothing further from our intention. In Galicia, since last year, there has been a unit of transsexuality. He's at Santiago de Compostela hospital in the CHUS. And for the information I have, people who have children or daughters in transsexuality are very happy with the health care they receive in this unit. Second inaccurateness, Mrs. White. [[Applause]] But I'm going to tell you that I agree more with Mr. Cal. We agree on this. You don't like it, you don't like it. What you want is for the People's Group to be against LGTBI people. And that's not the case, it's not the case. In the People's Group we are in favour of a different society, a tolerant society, an open society, which is the reflection of the People's Party, where there is freedom of expression, where each one says what he thinks and feels what he says. There are a lot of people in this group who are in favour of finding a consensus and moving forward on the subject of LGTBI people's rights, because we take these rights very seriously, not how you seem to take them, that what they want is to get a political credit and put political interests above the interests of LGTBI people. Let me have some melancholy of Mrs. Carmen Gallego and other spokesmen of the past legislation, which we were looking for, amongst all of us, to move forward on this subject and not put sticks on the wheels, which is what you seem to want. I'm sorry, but I don't think that's the way forward, and I don't think that's the way to protect the rights of LGTBI people. As I said at the beginning, with the initiative you presented in writing, we fully agree with it. At the first point, it calls for the fulfilment of Law 2/2014, and the People's Group has always maintained the same position: the laws are to comply with them. In the second point it says that a report on the application of Law 2/2014 will be sent to the Italian Chamber before three months ago. We don't have a problem. With this report, what happens is that last June 28 was introduced, even before those three months that you asked for at the initiative, which, according to the entry register, would be completed on August 3. "Tarde, evil and trail," said Mrs. Rodil. Well, three months before planned. And at the third point he calls for consensus on the development of the law, a point where we cannot agree more, since we — and I repeat it again — believe that, in order for the laws to last over time, it is necessary to seek the broadest consensus possible. And so we did when this law was introduced in the past legislation. Well, in the Health Committee last week, and by way of a question from the People's Group, the Secretary General of Equality announced that Galicia would be the third autonomous community, the third of all Spain, having a consultative body and social participation in the rights of LGTBI people, the Galician Observatory against Sexual Discrimination and Gender Identity. And what seems more important to us is that this process is being carried out through a constant dialogue with LGTBI associations, taking into account their proximity. I can't ignore what I said, that Galicia was the first autonomous community to have a law that avoids discrimination against these people, and that the Greek Government has included a budget match since 2017 for these organizations that represent them. This has shown the collaboration — which Mrs. Rodil says does not exist — since 2016 with the associative fabric through the signing of agreements. Well, to finish -- that I don't have any more time -- and talking about the report under point 2, what you're presenting in the amendments is that the report doesn't like it, some people ask for the report to be longer, others ask for the report to be shorter. I mean, now the Government has to send a report to this House at first, then forward reports because they are made to the letter according to parliamentary groups... ladies and gentlemen, this is not serious. The Government is sending a report to this House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u93	It's over, Mr. President. But as from the People's Group — I said — we have taken very, very seriously the rights of LGTBI people, we have told them that if you withdraw the amendments, we would vote in favour of these three points of the initiative, which has been presented. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u95	Thank you very much, President. I would like, first of all, to thank the support of BNG and En Marea for this initiative. And, of course, we will accept the amendments for the sake of the consensus that you so much like, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. We will try to take account of all parliamentary groups in order to compromise. Well, the truth is, I kept a sentence: "We defend the rights of LGTBI people." Let's go back to the moral double you have, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Did you defend the rights of LGTBI people when they voted against that same gender could marry? Did they defend the rights of LGTBI people when they were blocking opposition initiatives in Congress to consolidate the rights and freedoms of LGTBI people? Do you defend the rights of LGTBI people when they voted against this House on the handling of that law that was so important to transsexuals? Did they defend those rights of LGTBI people or were they lying? Or were they being like you? They're still the same as they always are. You are always against any social advancement and any advancement of rights and freedoms in this country. [[Applause]] And you know what the worst thing is? That we're hoping they're with most of the population. We are looking forward to them being with all of us and with all of our citizenship, what we are asking is that they change their attitude at once, that they change their attitude at once for all. There's double morals because you're absolutely opposed to any progress in these matters, but then you don't have any kind of remilgo to use them. You were, after resorting to that law before the Constitution, those who acted as witnesses to weddings between people of the same genre — in many cases companions and their companions — the same ones who voted in favour of that equal treatment law in Galicia and then turned it into wet paper. Tell the truth. And the truth is that the People's Party is Hear and Hear is the People's Party. And what they have to do, if they really believe in the rights of LGTBI people, in particular those of this autonomous community — because this Government is the Government of all citizenship and it is the Government of those people — what they have to do here — that many today will come to the appointment with the special envoy of Hazte Hear, Mr. Casado — is to tell you that you publicly reject this publicity which calls for the vote clearly for it, and tell you that if you have been one of those that we have asked for so long ago for the illegalization of Hazte Hear to pay attention directly to the rights and freedoms of a population sector. [[Murmurs.]] A small sector, but a population sector, gentlemen. [[Applause]] Look, I don't have time, but as far as the report is concerned — even the secretary-general in charge has acknowledged it — goes with more than a year's delay. And he even came to apologize. You're still on that bus to make you hear. I'm sure they'll end up coming down because they won't get any better. Meanwhile, we will follow where we have always been, trying to return the respect that LGTBI people deserve, affirming their identity and trying by all means to restore their freedom. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Luís Villares Naveira and 13 other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in the Order of Aids to Combat the Damage Caused by the Exploitation of a Pyrotechnic in Paramos, in the Town Hall of Tui, as well as the actions to be carried out in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u97	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group, as well as to a self-amendment of the EMEA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u98	Mr. Villares has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I want to begin by greeting the people who accompany us today from the affected group of Paramos, people who in many cases have lost something more than their homes. They've lost peace of mind in life and other things that are surely unrecoverable in some cases. After talking to them and to them, it's why En Marea has presented an initiative, which is what we are debating today, which is an initiative that aims only to make justice within the limited possibilities, to make justice with what happened in Paramos. We came here to present a series of measures that seek, within a limit, the citizenship of Paramos, the citizenship of Tui, can recover the normality lost after that fateful May 23, when, without their fault and without their responsibility and of them, they lost, often physically, everything they had. We have presented a number of initiatives that we understand can improve the aid currently being given to the Galician Union — and the rest of the administrations, but mainly the Galician Union — as far as we are in the Welsh House, and therefore at the headquarters of our country's self-government. We believe that within the initiatives there are three blocks, which are attention that we must regard as irrevocable to the whole of the citizenship of Paramos and Tui. The first one is to take care of people's health, of people who have suffered the most, establishing and providing an immediate and lasting psychological care plan. Secondly, to guarantee the right to housing, to ensure the attention and restoration of one hundred percent of the value of the housing that was torn apart by the explosion. The neighborhood of Paramos is not to blame for its loss. And thirdly, the necessary cooperation between administrations to achieve an integral reconstruction of the Paramos set. I'm just going to realize some of the most important initiatives that the neighbourhood set — not In Marea, but the neighborhood set — considers it essential to recover normality within an order. First of all, we were talking about psychological assistance to victims. It is necessary to immediately equip personnel specialized in psychological care at the Tui health center and to develop a psychological care plan in the surroundings of Paramos. This same week we were visited, like the rest of the parliamentary groups, by the Dean of the Galician College of Psychology, who found and denounced to us the structural and conjunctural deficiencies in caring for the psychological needs of the victims of Paramos and its surroundings. First of all, it is necessary for a place of psychologist specialist, which has been planned for years, to equip itself effectively. And it is necessary to provide the necessary squares to meet and follow up over the time of the health of the people around Paramos. It must be done normally in the primary care system without extraordinary referrals to the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro. We're not innovating anything, gentlemen. This was something that at the time it was already established as a protocol after the Lorca catastrophe, the earthquake that devastated that Murcian village, which gave rise to a protocol of intervention and follow-up of citizenship over time to achieve complete restoration of its health and maximum recovery of normality as soon as possible. But we still have a closer experience, which is that of the Angrois accident, in which the differentiation between certain victims who had continued psychological care from the first moment and those who didn't have it resulted in some years later that some of them had a pharmacological need and others didn't have it, simply because they were treated and their diseases were not chronicled. Secondly, and by entering into material damage, we believe that guaranteeing the right of all citizens to a decent housing is something that has already occupied us many times in this Parliament; with more reason to guarantee the recovery of a decent housing for all those who have lost it. Perhaps we still do not know in this House today — and those affected and affected do not know — who is responsible for the explosion, who is responsible for the explosion. But we know who wasn't to blame, ladies. It wasn't the fault of the neighbors and neighbors who lost everything. And since it wasn't their fault, it's not fair that in the compensation we set up we didn't guarantee the recovery of 100 percent of the value of their homes. It's not fair, because they're not responsible for the explosion. So, we do not accept, we cannot accept, we will bar them from the proposed accounts so far by the Council of Galicia, which are limited, in the case of habitual housing, to 75% of the value of the VPO in the Town Hall of Tui; and, in the case of second residence dwellings, to 40%. Because the rest will have to put the affected and the affected. And it's not fair because they're not responsible for the success. So look for the administrations — who have the means — who are responsible, so they pay everything. But, please, among all of us, in the exercise of social solidarity that means the constitution of the state, of the Union, of public administrations, we will recover one hundred percent of the value of all the housing that was torn or damaged in Paramos. In connection with this, there's also the task of revealing it. We are asking for something as basic here as to fully assume the work of debauchery and to take two things into account: that one can, in terms of security and health, rescue the personal effects of people, which may not have much economic value but which cannot be paid with money — because there are emotional things in life, there are things that are not paid with money; therefore, the work of debauchery should take into account the possibilities of recovery of certain objects of personal value — and also the re-use, for reconstruction, of materials that are usable. At the level of procedural matters, we ask, within the legal order, of course, that there should be a subrogation by the Administration in the obligations, in relation to the insurers themselves, to ensure that in the short term those affected and affected may have access to all those economic goods to whom they have the right and must not go to court for access to what belongs to them, as has been the case in other cases. We want a single complaint office to provide technical advice, legally, to provide comprehensive advice, so that an affected person or an affected person can enter the door, explain all his or her problems and leave the same door already with the entire administration operating, without having to make institutional pilgrimage, as is happening in some cases. We are aware that the Board has said, in word, that it commits itself to the tax level with deductions in the IRPF in the autonomic plot so that the aid to the replacement they produce does not go in on one side and go out on the other. Well, what we are asking for here in this self-amendment — which is why we are presenting it — is that these commitments are put in writing. If there has already been a compromise, it is normal for you to remain in writing in this House. We also want to pay attention to damaged and destroyed vehicles. We don't want the general civil liability regime to be applied, where it meets the venal value of the vehicle, but it meets the vehicle replacement value; that is, we want to leave our neighbours and neighbors free of the loss of their vehicles. We don't want them to have better cars, but we don't want them to get lost either as a result of the explosion itself. And that's what would happen if we just agreed to compensate for the viral value and not the replacement value. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also necessary to address the damage caused to professionals, both in industrial and business, so that they can operate again in the place where they were and recover as quickly as possible their ability to create wealth in the municipality itself and in the place of Paramos. Thirdly — and for us the most important or so important at least, in relation to what we are talking about, like the two major points before us — is the necessary inter-administrative collaboration in the reconstruction of the devastated zone. Rebuilding Paramos is not a sum of damage to individuals, it is the reconstruction of an entire habitat, it is the reconstruction of an entire human community that has been physically torn apart. It's the reconstruction of private space, but also of public space, so that it wants to live in it again and bad memories don't let it be more than that, bad memories, and you can live normally when you can regain dignity in the place of Paramos to live in the future. This requires loyal collaboration between public administrations. On June 1st, Tui's neighborhood was thrown into the streets with a single claim. They said, "We rowed in the same direction. The administrations are missing now." We want to leave this House today with an inter-administrative commitment of loyal collaboration, because repairing a catastrophe is more than compensating for the loss of concrete goods, it's the recovery of the whole environment. That is why we urge all competent administrations from this House also to model reconstruction of the entire affected area. This would mean, first of all, an integral reurbanization of the entire territory torn apart with reconstruction of private spaces but also with reconstruction of public spaces; with environmental and urbanistic counseling in the reconstruction of housing, with intervention by social services to solve mobility problems, to verify the welcome of orphans, to ensure social inclusion throughout the neighborhood, and less in equity, in justice, in the distribution of relief aid. Finally, we call on the Union to open a line of dialogue with the State also for the activation of contingency funds to be held to complement the budget lines arranged by the Greek, provincial and local administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that we have come with a proposal for justice for the whole of the citizenship of Paramos and Tui, which should be above the wounds and partisan clashes, and, of course, on that key they will always find us from the Marea ready and willing to help the people of Paramos recover the normality of a life that has been unjustly lost on May 23. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u100	Thank you, Mr. Villares. [[Applause from the public gallery.]] I'm sorry, but you know that Parliament's regulation does not allow it to be applauded, it does not allow demonstrations. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by greeting the members of the platform affected by the explosion in Paramos on May 23. I would like to point out, first, Mr President, that I am going to have a political debate. And I say this because, after the President's reply and the political debate that has been said, I'm sure mine will at least be the same as a politician. And in principle we will support the En Marea initiative, regardless of whether they support our amendments, which are, in any case, complementary and addendum. But I want to reflect on the double morals of the Greek and Spanish right, of the People's Party, of both families and crisis situations. And I want to start with the families, I want to start with something that personally assaulted me yesterday. I was agitate to hear how intolerable it was to speak of the son of a counselor and it was not intolerable that he had spoken of the sister-in-law of a president of the Deputy, as it was intolerable that a member of my group and myself were recriminalized by the Presidency for doing a gesture that was repeated more vehemently by a member, a member, of the Government of Galicia. [[Applause]] So this is where we're moving. Of course it's true that, on the matter of families, Tolstoi started in Ana Karenina saying that all happy families look like each other and that the unhappy ones are each in their own way. You see that the happy ones are those on the right, the prominent families, what Mr. Manuel Fraga was talking about — President, democratically elected, of the Council of Galicia but appointed minister by the Franco dictator; we all have lights and shadows — who said that "the children of the prominent families are better prepared." I forgot that it's called equality or not of opportunity. And so I think it's very relevant to understand the intolerable concept of power that the Government of Greece has. And I remember him because I've been here for some time talking about other crises. I repeat again that, of course, all support for this situation and for those affected. But I want to remember the government between 2005 and 2009, now I'm going to be what I remember. I want to recall the obscene display of hundreds of data from the sick—who were delaying appointments—by the spokesman of the People's Party's Health. I want to remember similar data about people affected by the Dependency Act — which was, by the way, being implemented in its beginnings — by the corresponding spokesman. I want to remember the shipwrecks with fatal victims, who were literally accused of fishing advisors practically of these deaths. And I want to remember the year 2006, I want to remember... yes, yes, it has a lot to do with power, with crisis situations, and with the way the People's Party exerts power. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course it has to do with it. I understand you're upset -- I insist -- but it has a lot to do with it. I want to remember the year 2006. And I remember him well. I remember the deceased, I remember the indecent photos — and I'm being gentle — and I remember the indecent statements and I remember the cracks as well. Yes, yes, Mr. Moreira, I remember all this, I remember Mr. Rueda's hurtful voice saying that the families of the public prosecutors on the right have their hearts, when he himself encouraged the new generations of the People's Party to manifest themselves in front of the private residence of the Secretary General of the Socialist Party of Galicia. I remember him, you may not remember him. Abel Losada remembers it perfectly. So it's good to have memory. [[Murmurs.]] And it is also fitting to be petty, petty... yes, the pettyness of the People's Group in the Pontevedra Deputy when forty hours after the explosion, when the second fatal victim had just been found and when the search for more victims — which fortunately did not occur — was still open, that is, when this process of search for possible victims, presents an initiative textually saying that the Pontevedra Deputy approves a line of aid directed to the victims and affected by the explosion that happened on the last day 23. [[Strong murmurers.]] I insist, it was 25 at 11.57 in the morning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u102	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u103	So, I hope the People's Party... I'm the first one to defend inter-administrative cooperation, the first one. And I think that, indeed, all administrations have to cooperate, but we need to know who has the competences and who has the most budgets. Yes! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u104	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u105	And we also need to know the government's inability to manage Feijóo when he's starting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u106	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u107	...when it's starting now, eight months later, the reconstruction of the homes affected by the fires of October 2017. Then they have to explain to these citizens whether it will also take eight months to start rebuilding their homes before they ask the Deputy of Pontevedra to do what they are already doing within their competences — it is very good — and to ask the Government of Spain to initiate a declaration process...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u109	...that, as we know, it's already started.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u110	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u111	Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Party, ethics in the face of crises. Lessons of ethics in the face of crises on your part, never, not at all, after what they did when they were in the opposition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u112	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rodríguez Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to greet also my neighbours of Tui, of Paramos, of Guillarei, who are here. It's good that you listen to us and we stand. I had prepared an intervention, but as a Member I want to apologize to my neighbours for Mr Losada's intervention. He lost 90 percent of his time talking about other things without Tui. [[Applause]] Mr. Villares, in Parliament politics is not fair. I think you can't miss the truth with so much joy in the face of such a dramatic situation, so painful, as sensitive as those people who are going on up there plus those who are at home. How can it be said in this House that the Galician Union is showing its incapacity! How can you speak at your initiative of abandoning the population to your luck? How can you say that? Mr. Villares, it's not all political. Populisms aren't good. My neighbors want help, of course they want help. They don't want political disputes, they want solutions, they want unity, we all move in the same direction, they want their lives back. You're talking about population. I speak, looking into their eyes, of Moncho, of Pili, of Isidro, of Ayala, or of Abdalak, of Sora — who unfortunately died — so far as my neighbors are concerned. They're not people, they're people. [[Applause]] I know your lives, your houses, your history, Mr. Villares. You're late, you're late, you're ill and the trail. The Galician Union was the first administration to compromise aid in a record time. Just a week later, we're talking about more than 7 million euros, more than 1,100 million pesetas, which seems little; a great budgetary effort, not because it's the competence of the Board, but because of the responsibility and our willingness to assist people. A responsibility that should take over the rest of the administrations. On the Pontevedra Parliamentary, when the PP governs, the MPs have to disappear. Why do we want Members if it's not to help the Town Councils? I say this because it seems too convenient to come here to this Parliament in Galicia to demand more commitment to an administration that has to make an unprecedented effort in aid and simplification of procedures. On June 29th, we adopted a non-legislative proposal by the People's Party, with amendments by the PSOE and the BNG—by the way, in Marea did not present any—. Many of these points are already approved — with the exception of IRPF, IVE, IEA or traffic rates —. Above all, we have also asked the Government of the State to demand the declaration of the emergency zone, and now it seems that In Marea has discovered this. That's already requested by the Council and this Parliament in a non-legislative proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, we are working, we will continue to work and listen to our neighbors, no matter what happens here today. We, tomorrow and the past, will continue to deal point-by-point until this is resolved. The Town Hall of Tui made an extraordinary effort — more than a million euros — a council I know perfectly well. The Deputy of Pontevedra is neither expected nor expected. The Galician Union was the fastest, most axile and most exemplary administration. On July 5th, at the Board of Trustees, new lines of help. This is a problem of the state, let us hope that the declaration will now be supported by the Socialist Party of Galicia in Marea, because they have supported the change of government. Unit, we want unity, we all move in the same direction, which is what my neighbours claim. Our amendment is to urge the Deputy of Pontevedra and the Government of the State to be wet, to involve themselves with this problem, which is a problem for all the neighbours. If we don't make a deal, I compromise the next day to be with my neighbors and clarify point by point what's done, what's done and what's going to be done. Let's hope everyone joins and helps our neighbors. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u114	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Pérez. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u115	Good day to all and all. I'm sorry I can't call you all by name because I'm not from Tui. I'm not going to fall into Mr. Rodríguez's populism. I'm not going to fall into Mr. Rodríguez's cheap populism... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u116	Quiet, please! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u117	I have to say that if I've been to Tui several times, to Paramos, accompanying those affected and affected in what we can help. Because here in this Parliament there is politics, and with politics there can be justice or injustice. Yes, with politics, justice or injustice can be done. And indeed, there are forty-nine days of the Paramos catastrophe and the affected neighbors and neighbors of Paramos are suffering the consequences of that catastrophe. And so they move us, for they call for justice and redress of the damage caused. It is necessary to repair this damage, which, in fact, they are not guilty, they were not responsible, and if it is necessary to make that reparation. And there are responsible for making that repair to a different extent. And I, of course, am not going to accept that the People's Party is trying to put the fan so it looks like everyone has the same responsibilities. Not all administrations have the same responsibilities, you have to call things by name. And the emergency responsibility in Galicia is the Galician board, it's the emergency responsibility, and then it's the one that has to come.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u118	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u119	And what the neighbors and neighbors of Paramos have moved us is that we are faced with an exceptional situation and we have to have an exceptional answer. After forty-nine days since the catastrophe, they made a concentration, they did a demonstration, on July 1st -- the BNG and I were there. And what they require is that they actually act quickly, that they are abandoned, and that they are not responding to what is promised, that the aid orders do not respond to expectations or what they have promised them, that they are insufficient. BNG has also put forward initiatives here demanding that the housing repair aid, for the basement, respond to 100 percent of the damage caused. And the help orders that you pulled out of Junta don't respond to that 100 percent. BNG presented here with help or initiatives asking them to respond to that 100 percent. And we tabled an amendment that the People's Party did not accept, Mr. Rodríguez. You went to the follow-up commission to lie saying you hadn't voted. You did not accept the amendment tabled by the BNG, you lied in that follow-up commission. We tabled an amendment saying that those aids had been increased and expanded, and you did not accept that amendment. We continue to say that these aids must be extended to vehicles, that in order of aids that will theoretically be taken out tomorrow they do not extend to vehicles. We asked Sergas last week how psychological aid may not be provided at Tui's health center, how it is possible that a specific group of psychologists may not be hired to provide that psychological aid, since the Official College of Psychologists is transferring a letter to us and says the situation in Paramos is a social emergency situation that needs urgent attention. The affected persons need immediate psychological care that must be provided through the Tui health center. We ask Sergas, we ask the health care director here in this Parliament, and he says no. It's indecent that you don't provide that health care, which is why the People's Party comes here to assume, to deny the recruitment of one, two, three psychologists to provide psychological attention at Tui's health center, when that in the board budget means virtually nothing? That's what Junta is doing today, denying something like hiring one, two or three psychologists in the waiting lists, both in Sergas and in unemployment. There's plenty of psychologists and they deny that psychological attention. I mean, there's no justification for not giving that psychological attention, it's necessary to extend the aid, it's necessary an integral recovery from the neighborhood and it's necessary to extend the aid. We are going to support this initiative which you are presenting today in Marea, which is headed by those we have also presented to BNG. And, of course, we will continue to support the claims made by the neighbors and neighbors of Paramos because, of course, they are not responsible for the situation. And what if it is necessary is that, with speed and readiness, they respond to their requests. From this Parliament it becomes political, and from politics, in the right direction the demands of the neighbours and neighbours...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u121	...of course, justice is done. Because with the needs of the neighbors and the neighbors, the least you need is cheap populism, Mr. Rodríguez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u123	...which is what you did here from this rostrum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u125	Mr. Rodríguez, if politics is not good enough to build a more just society, politics is not worth it. No, if politics is not good for justice to the people who have lost everything, politics is not worth it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, as in democracy, we think politics is worth it, because you can do justice to the people who suffer, to the people who are going through it wrong, so we're here in this House, at least some of us who have come to think about the others. [[Murmurs.]] We've come to think about the others, yes. [[Applause]] Good politics is done by dealing with those you don't know with the same affection you treat those you know. And indeed, I don't know the name of all those affected and affected, either, but I want them as well as my neighbors who know their names, because I use the democratic exercise of politics in citizenship, which must be what they lack. Of course we said in the explanatory statement that a abandonment of the population occurred. How, if not, can you qualify for the fact that up to now there is no psychological care plan for the victims? That's abandonment. And we say it with pain of heart, in addition, because we think it's an absolutely unfair situation, and it's not the most expensive one we have on the table. That situation seems absolutely unfair to us. Secondly, we also think that there is abandonment of people when they are not clearly told that they will be entitled to recover 100 percent of the value of their homes, because they are not guilty of physically disappearing them, they are not guilty. And since they're not guilty, it's not fair that they have to pay part of the repairs, it's not fair! And that's why, because it's not fair, we're not willing to accept it. Of course there is a abandonment of the population in that sense, of the people, of the people! And as we also think that this abandonment must be overcome, we also ask all those who have the responsibilities of government in each of their institutions to act in harmony with that responsibility. Look, the other day you talked about acting in a commission where you presented an initiative. She forgot to say that we supported her. Do we support her? Yes, we support, because we are with all the initiatives that are going to be aimed at repairing the damage suffered by the victims, so we ask them today the same thing. We can't accept your initiative because it makes it substitute. Do you want us to talk? Do you want us to negotiate? Let's negotiate, let's add. We are willing and willing to make your amendment part of the initiative as an addendum. What does that addition mean? It means that everyone assumes their share of responsibility, but for us the essential thing of this situation is that today there is a political commitment that victims are recognized for the compensating concepts that have not yet been recognized. It even seems to us that we are going to impact the money because that's not their problem, we will have to talk about it later between us, between those who have government responsibilities in different administrations, to reach an agreement. Commitment to Galician Union? They made a commitment. Now, there's still room for that commitment. Look, last year, at the Continent Fund of Galicia, in the 2017 budgets, there were 36.5 million euros, of which, executed and liquidated the budget, nothing was spent. This year, in the Galician Joint Continent Fund there are 8 million euros, of which nothing has been spent. The budgets you set as Galician Union for the recovery of the damage caused by the Tui explosion come from other housing programs; they remove programs to put it in others. It seems timely and fair to us, but what we don't understand is that they leave this money unspent because they're for continence, they're for emergencies, and this is an emergency. Therefore, the Galician Union has margin to recognize all the compensating concepts that we have proposed today, and if one of them does not correspond to the Galician Union, it has an impact on other administrations, because we also ask that at the third point. That's why we also accept the amendment as an addition, because we also want to make justice between administrations. Everyone who corresponds, of course, to the exercise of their powers — and I am finished now — but at this moment the fundamental thing is that the victims and their families have a clear message that they will not stay behind, that they will not stay apart, that they will not be abandoned without the basics in order to regain normality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u126	Thank you, Mr. Villares. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and three other Members, on the elaboration by the Government of Galicia, after the report of the corresponding commission, of a new catalogue of public shows and recreational activities adapted to the current reality
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u127	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and greet our guests too. The Socialists today bring a non-law proposal in which we demand the legislative development of a law that has been processed in this House last quarter of last year. We call for a change that has already been claimed, a request, by means of an amendment made by our parliamentary group and which has not been approved by the People's Party. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, remember well, we tabled 45 amendments to improve the legislative text, and we have already made clear in the debate of this law that was a law that was going out with quite legal insecurity, and time is giving us reason. We call for a change that is also being demanded by the sector before the entry into force. A law that also, before its entry into force, is already manifesting problems that come out in the newspapers day and day, not primarily by interpretation, because it is not sufficiently consensual with the sector and not sufficiently consensual with the Fegamp. A law that leaves the municipalities and technicians of these municipalities quite free interpretation for some aspects that are very important and that have a lot of relevance. A law that today does not shape the current cultural reality of our community and that can put at risk — if not a consensus agreement — the orchestras sector and the live music sector. Culture has never been a priority for the People's Party. Culture for the People's Party is a right only for those who can afford it. And the main approach of the People's Party to culture was to increase the VAT and suppress the Ministry of Culture. It is also important to arrive at the popular Party of Galicia, which is the control of the media. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, a culturally mature society needs independent and free means. And in this case, public shows and recreational activities are part of culture. So, according to the Ideology of the People's Party, with little importance given by the People's Party to culture, they pass a law of public shows and recreational activities after twenty years of competence. Twenty years they've had competition! Twenty-one years, sorry! And those twenty-one years, seventeen were ruled by the People's Party. And those seventeen years ruled by the People's Party were with an absolute majority. So there's no justification for not regulating this whole sector before. In addition, they recall that in 2017 the Autonomous Community of Greece was the only one that did not have its own regulation in this matter, and suddenly, at the end of 2017, they were in a tremendous hurry to pass this law quickly, without having a real consensus either with the sector or with the Fegamp, as I had previously told them. In addition, they know that there are relevant aspects that come into the development of the usual work of the sectors, and therefore sometimes also of their only support. It is a law that is published on January 2, 2018; it comes into force on July 1st; and today, six months after that law has been passed, it does not seem that they have agreed on the decree governing the Commission of Public Shows and Recreational Activities of Galicia. There is still a draft hung on the Galician board's own transparency page. Six months later there is no agreement and therefore there is no commission of public shows and recreational activities in Galicia, which have much to say and much to issue to carry out this law passed on January 2nd this year. By the way, the 2018 Legislative Plan of the Galician Union itself, on page 3, which was adopted on March 22 for execution throughout this year, includes this own decree; therefore, we do not understand what they are waiting for. But look, it's even more curious today, because the People's Party itself has tabled an amendment, in which they set us up to a maximum of six months from the adoption of the decree, so the committee regulates, the maximum deadline will be to draw up the new catalogue of public shows and recreational activities adapted to the current reality, as we ask the socialists. But today they have withdrawn this amendment. The truth is that it's a little weird, because it seems that both Members of the People's Party and Members of the People's Party do not want to put their duties on the Council of Galicia. Do you withdraw an amendment precisely because you don't want to set deadlines that you won't then meet the Galician Union? Then they can answer me. But the most worrying thing is, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that we are in the summer season, which is the time when they develop most, or more intensively, both public shows and recreational activities, and it is therefore very important that certain aspects are regulated. It's rather curious, today the president of the Galician Union, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, told us that the Galician Union was at the top, that they were not on precautional arrest. The reality is quite different; our parliamentary spokesman has explained it perfectly. The Galician Union is always low in political performance. Galician Meeting management is a subject that does not progress properly. And even if this legislative Parliament, who has an obligation to execute, does not execute. You, over and over again -- and we show it every time we go out here to this rostrum, especially the opposition -- they do it; over and over again, over and over again. They pass a law to shut down the sector, but a law that later does not develop and therefore does not execute. That's always the way to be and the way to work for the People's Party of Galicia. Look, it doesn't even justify the economic importance of the sector. If we see the data published in the IGE – we insist that they are official sources, published by you – that, as you know, the Galego Institute of Statistics also depends on the Galician Union, we are told that the GDP weight of artistic, recreational and other services for Galicia, 2017, is 3.61%, and that full-time equivalent jobs account for 7.6% of the total. So it's a sector that's of utmost importance. If we now focus on the Catalogue of Public Shows and Recreational Activities in Galicia, I remind them — although they are well aware — that is regulated in a decree of the year 2005 which also amends a decree of the year 2004, of the previous year. And 13 years after this decree, that catalogue is still in force! and they don't seem to be in such a hurry to eliminate this amendment they had tabled. You see, yourself, in your own exposition of reasons for the law of public shows and recreational activities, which I remember to approve after twenty years, and is also approved on 2 January of this year, you already recognize that it is the first autonomous rule with legal rank; that it comes to fill the normative void existing in our community today; that you want to have your own legislation adapted to the special circumstances of the autonomous community; that you want to achieve a normative framework appropriate to the reality of today's society, according to the new social and cultural parameters; and that it also obliges a balance between the different sensibilities, rights and obligations of people who organize entertainment and recreational activities, of spectators or users and of other people, that is, creditors of the right to rest and to normalized coexistence. Well, to ensure this balance between the principle of freedom and the principle of security and coexistence, we ask them to develop legally everything under this law and to cease legal insecurity. So our proposal is: "The General Administration of the Autonomous Community will publish, within a maximum of six months, a report from the Commission on public shows and recreational activities of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, a new catalogue of public shows and recreational activities adapted to current reality." Let's hope they reconsider their stance, apply the law and develop their regulations for the sake of the sector, which is asking for it every day. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. The title of this story could be: from those post, these sludges, these slabs, because we are suffering the consequences of the procedure of drafting, of the deficiencies of the contents and of the timetable of application of a law that, in fact, arrived twenty-one years late and that the last hour was rushed, with precipitation and with order and command of the People's Party, which was refused, for example, in November, when we proposed the opposition groups, to make a hearing process with 23 groups, which we proposed that they might appear here in December, which would only delay the entry into force of the law, and which, of course, would allow many of these issues that we are now debating. There was an attempt to bring together the groups and entities that were affected and are now complaining about the application of the law, and many of these issues could therefore be corrected. Moreover, I remind you that this is a procedure referred to in Article 115.3 of the Rules of Procedure of this House, which is designed precisely to promote social participation in the drafting of laws. What is the problem, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with the democratic participation of the entities affected by the application of the laws? Why do they systematically veto these procedures? Of course, we are now paying the consequences with all this problem that is being detected, and there are also other problems arising from the responsibilities and competences that you have transferred to the municipalities without transferring to them, at the same time, the funding and the means necessary to implement the law. They are not doing their homework over these months, the only thing they've done, because of demands and complaints from certain sectors, was a model of responsible and simplified declaration for the authorisation of verbena. But there are many other demands, posed by various collectives and entities, and also by the municipalities, which have not yet been resolved. And I also remind you of the criticisms made by the Fegamp, for example, at the time of the entry into force of this law, because it was not necessary for it to enter into force precisely in July, in full vorage of holidays and shows in this country. The law is sick of lack of concreteness, ambiguities, deficiencies, necessity of regulatory development, these are issues on which it has been alerted at that time. And there are also doubts and shadows of legality. I remind you that there is a request from the Association of Technical Manufacturers of Shows to initiate the declaration of nullity of the references to the law made by certification entities, and they make them appear nothing more and nothing less than in a report from the National Committee on the Market in Values and Competition; therefore, something will have to say to this entity in a matter like what we are referring to. They didn't do the homework, and now the problems come. The problems come, for example, from musical activities in places that do not have a concert coffee license, which is precisely a question that could be solved with the change in the catalogue of shows and recreational activities, a question that are denouncing collectives such as live musicians, such as Culture, as the Association of professional musicians in Galicia, which does not have to be resolved with patches and emergency measures put in place by the municipalities to try to remedy the situation, as they are doing, for example, from Compostela or from Pontevedra, to support these activities. You should recognize, regulate and resolve generally for the whole country by law and by the catalogue you haven't already made. And also, of course, the need to update — because the world has changed, society has changed — a catalogue that is 2005 and which reflects and gathers realities, of course, that do not have to do with this country. I think it's very nice that he's picking up recreational activities of great roots and tradition like the flamenco boards and the release of young men. The flamenco boards must recognize that yes, I know there are over 200, because it's a trickle to paste some kind of activity and make fun of the timetable. And it turns out we have more flamenco boards here than in Andalusia, three times more! Of course, shows are not aware that they exist, but well, as the People's Party likes the fairs of April, the bulls and the flamenco, just as they are interested in this matter. And curiously — You have the right to like flamenco boards, no problem. [[Interruptions.]] I like a lot of things, too. [[Murmurs.]] What does not include, for example, gastronomy parties, historical recreational parties, traditional parties like the Mays or the Magisterians, and of course a hostelery activity — the holes — which is much more popular and traditional in the country than the flamenco paintings, for example. So it's obvious that this update is needed, what happens is that you put the car before the ox and now you have to put patches and cover holes. So the BNG will support this initiative, and what we ask the Government Group, or the Government, is that they do the duties, that they govern, that they solve the problems and that they don't believe anymore, that there are enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u131	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. This law really didn't come with any dancing shoes, either with white shoe or with half silk. We, from the very first moment, have already said with arguments — and arguments I think solids — that it was an unfinished law, a law that had to be returned, so we made an amendment to the whole. However, thinking that it's a necessary law, we also made more than 60 partial amendments, which, of course, in their line of listening very much and taking into account the suggestions of the opposition, were not practically nor read. Already in November, this political group, this parliamentary group, to justify the whole amendment, has appointed ten or more reasons. The first and most important thing is that a law has to be involved, it has to be consensual. It doesn't mean they didn't talk to all sectors, it means they only talked to who they were interested in, and possibly not by forgetting, but rather by other kinds of questions. A law without dialogue, a law that does not take into account all the agents involved, a law that does not take into account either the agents, the municipalities, the consumer associations, the producers and producers, the users, or generally the entire cultural ecosystem, something that has been found since the minute zero; an abstract, little-developed law, a law with legal insecurity. We say it, it's an ambiguous law, and today it's proving that it's really a problematic law. It's going to be a constant patch, they won't have another option. It was really just a law passed by the People's Party. All the rest of the groups abstained, for something would be! When there's little legal certainty, it brutally affects its own activity, then we set examples. There is insecurity for operators, for places, for promoters. There is legal indefinition in many respects. There's imbalance, because it's not the same as a small-format show as a huge show. That's right, you're all qualified to decide, and then, instead of delegating to certain municipalities, which in small format can solve, no. That is very clear and stipulated in this way. So it's unrealistic. Artists themselves, promoters and locals denounce the fundamental characteristic of this law, which is the restriction. It's very restrictive, that's what they didn't do with their feet on the ground. And it also endangers, above all, the groups, the smaller creators. The big fish eats the little one; in this case yes. Why are you generating so much controversy? You just have to open the press and see that there is a group, a collective, of over 200 artists who are leading the demand to ensure, for example, the realization of small-format concerts in closed enclosures, in the face of the doubts that open the law's own application. Why are we going to support the PSdEG proposal? Because we think the catalogue might be, it must be! A catalogue that is 13 years old -- bad number if it doesn't grow -- let's hope it doesn't last any more years. A catalogue that you advertise in the press, especially -- this is the advice announcement -- to change closing times. I'm sorry to tell you that in all the countries of Europe catalogues are worth much more than regularizing the closure. As well said here, there are stratagems to camouflage closing times, let's hope it doesn't happen that way. It can also help with the distribution and dissemination of performances by artists. A catalogue allows people who can hire to access synopses, photographs and videos, who access documentation for possible dissemination within and outside the country; adapt to social reality: improve consumer protection; ensure the coexistence of neighbourhood; give companies security; study compatibility, adapt to demand, especially with certainty and respect for the environment as the main premises. This is what we said from the very first moment: it is appropriate to adapt the regulatory framework to accommodate the different ways of understanding leisure. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u134	Pre-question, if you'll excuse me. To clarify some concept, to name the neighbors you live with every day and the ones you know, each by its name, it's called proximity. To name again and again in Parliament the people you've met once in your life, and you haven't seen her again, that's demagogy. You should understand the difference quite well. I also want to make it clear... I'm sorry that the deputy who said this is not here, but we didn't attack families, we didn't attack sisters, we just mentioned sisters who come out in judicial resolutions that — yes — say they benefited from their status as brother-in-law. The rest of us leave them alone. I want to clear this up. With regard to the subject that touches us, the Council of Galicia believes that it has proved to be frank in its appreciation because it is handling the decree governing the Commission on public shows and recreational activities; in fact, it is simply pending the report of the Consultative Council, while, in parallel, working on the development of a new catalogue of shows adapted to the current reality, which, of course, has already been submitted to the prior public consultation procedure. We cannot support this initiative on a simple matter, because we are given the same circumstances that prevented us from accepting the amendment they tabled to the law. We cannot eventually condition the necessary prior dialogue with the sector, and we do not believe that the deadlines for the Commission's preliminary report should be conditional, because it seems to us that it is more interesting to correct the modifications to the catalogue that do not approve it within a certain time limit. And I say why: because there's no legal vacuum; because there's a catalogue, with deficiencies, for sure, but it's in full vigilance, and if there's a lot of flamenco boards, Mr Bará, it's because of the hobby that you have some outstanding members of the BNG. I remember Mr. Francisco Rodríguez said he was relaxing listening to the rose manoeuvring. I don't know what you like. I don't come in. I think it's all right, everyone who hears what they want, but we should all comply with the law. Because, if what is intended with the modification of the catalogue is to regulate the activities of the places where the activities take place, especially the places of leisure, entertainment and restoration, it seems to us to be correct. If what we're trying to do is to justify lies, to protect illegalities or to attribute to the law of spectacles consequences that have their origin in the irresponsible performance of some mayor, we believe that a huge mistake would be made. I'm clear on one thing. In this respect, nothing has changed in the law. What was legal before the law, continues to be legal. And what was illegal before the law, continues to be illegal. Affirming that the Act of Shows prevents live music, or forbids performing in places where it was previously permitted, is false. And the possibility of regularly holding events in a place, ladies and gentlemen, depends solely on their municipal license, before the Act of Shows and after the Act of Shows. What happens is that some ignore this. I bring here this headline: "Santiago opens the tap to live music in pubs in the old area." "After almost two years of struggle, live music will resound in the pubs of the historical helmet without indiscriminately exposing itself to fines." "Tenteen locals of the Old City Association will benefit from this convention." Look, claiming that a council could, or might, authorize the regular holding of events that are not covered by a municipal license is a mistake to the neighbors, it's a mistake to the owners, it's a deception to the artists. If you can regulate those exceptional acts, and you have to do it by municipal order. What have you been doing so far? Because Mrs. Cuña says, "No, this isn't the town hall. "The criterion for concerts in pubs will be their soundproofing and not their license. The Government of Open Compostela approves a change of order." But was it municipal or wasn't it municipal competition? What happens is to allow certain events, in the knowledge of their illegality, to be held has another name, and it's a much uglyr name. Look, there are public officials who learn from witches who are considered above the law. And they think that their arrogance, which is only comparable to their political cowardice, allows them to do anything. Arrogance belongs to those who ignore the legal warnings of their own legal services. And the political cowardice of those who refuse to assume the consequences of that attitude. He spoke before the convention of Open Compostela. I have here the legal report accompanying the convention: The proper compliance with the convention, as a result of the inclusion of preventive clauses, will be subject to compliance with sectoral legislation — in particular autonomous and municipal — which is essentially related to the respective licences for the use and opening of the sites concerned by the draft convention. By the way, I think this one which has been referred to by various decrees signed, among others, by a concierge that will sound to you, Mr Duarte or Mr Duro. They all say the same thing, no agreement protects the celebration of events in a place that doesn't have a license for that. What did the mayor of Open Compostela do? To ensure compliance with the report in its terms? No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u135	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u136	He concealed that nuance and diverted responsibilities elsewhere. We were talking about accidents yesterday. I also want to talk and ask myself questions about accidents. Look, is it casual that three days after this report, the director of the Legal Counsel of the Town Hall had changed? Is it casual to be moved by a free designation? Is it random that the free designation was known by the press six weeks before the appointment took place? It's also accidental that they changed the head of the license service...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u137	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u138	What did you testify against Mr. Duarte? [[Murmurs.]] Is it accidental that the agreement intends to protect only members of an association? And it's random that the members of that association...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u139	Mr. Paz, stop, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u140	....includes the highlighted below signatures? In the words of a distinguished character who preceded me today in the use of the word: the patronism of the new politics, the seal of Open Compostela, the corrupt DNA of the Tides.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u142	Stop lying to people, fulfill their obligations and stop preempting in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor by the Parliamentary Group which is the author of the non-legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u144	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u145	Excuse me, you have the word to Madame... No, you don't have the word now. [[Interruptions.]] When Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo is finished, she may ask for the floor to ask what she thinks is appropriate, and we'll see. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Rumbo, you have the floor. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u146	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, thanks to the BNG spokesman and to En Marea's spokesman for supporting this proposal. In the case of the People's Party, I ask you, Mr Pazos — and I also say that we are dealing with this law in the field of dialogue — is that you feel with the representatives of all sectors. We have a problem. Before this law came into force we've already received a number of sectors that were presuming problems that would arise. You know -- and I've already told you about the statistical data before -- that for us the public show sector, the recreational activity sector, is very important, and that Galicia — as the BNG spokesman explained — has its own way of enjoying leisure. So we have recreational activities and public shows that are very different, very different, than are developing elsewhere. The truth is that it is also curious — a little in the same line as the representative of the BNG — that at one time in 2011, a mayor of the People's Party was charged precisely because Galicia had more flamenco boards licenses than there was in Andalusia. So what we're trying to do is regulate that and don't happen. Basically, one thing we remind him over and over again: sit down with the Town Councils. The Galician Union is used to legislating to give more powers to the municipalities, but it doesn't give them any more funding so they can exercise those powers. I mean, you invite and the municipalities pay. I also want to remind you, because it is very important, that on the subject of Galician verbenas is the first world power, as it is said, of orchestras. So orchestras are a very important sector and we need to regulate. You focus enough on the Town Hall of Santiago to basically talk about live music. But look, it's not only Santiago, we have to think about all the Welsh villages. Not even in the seven great cities, but in all the Welsh villages, where music is increasingly being offered live. Obviously, as I said at the beginning, they have to guarantee the right to rest that people who are not there, so the places have to adapt, but we also have to see that this live music offers added value to what is being given in these restoration sites, in these drinking places, in these cafes, so we also have to watch because it is also a livelihood, it is an economic livelihood — Mr President — for this sector. Therefore, the Galician Union must ensure that this sector can also develop in places that are conditioned and that it can develop its economic activity. So what we ask of you is nothing more than immediately, without further delay, to feel with the sector; to regulate and approve these two decrees and to listen to the needs of the sectors, so that they can develop their economic activity smoothly. No more, no less. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rumbo. [[Mrs. Cuña Bóveda asks for the floor.]] Tell me, Mrs. Cuña, what did you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u148	I don't know if you have a voice on Mrs. Cuña's chair. Now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u149	I repeat.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u150	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u151	On the basis of Article 76.1, I would ask Mr Pazos to withdraw the statement: "Stop prejudging", for inaccurateness or judgment of value, as if he had been required of us at other times.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u152	What was it? "Stop preempting"?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u153	"Stop preempting." That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Pazos. Give a voice to Mr. Pazos' chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u155	Thank you. This spokesman used word for word, literally, the same terminology that his spokesman used this morning, without being called to order, to address the Popular Group. Here we all play with the same rules and we all have the same chance to pronounce ourselves in equal terms. And, of course, I can't take that away because it would be as much as inviting them to continue prevaricating in the municipalities, and that certainly I can't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u156	I would ask — I'm sorry, I'm in the use of the word, then you can debate what you want — that we all object to the cordial use of words. It's true that those words may not like it, and it's also true that many are pronounced that they don't like other groups either. Today morning, during the debate of the questions to the president, they used a lot of expressions that don't like everyone else, and they let it go. So, I pray that in the future, as far as the debate is concerned, we do not use expressions that offend the rest of the Members, either on the one hand or on the other. Debates will be easier, and we may even understand ourselves better at something. Tell me, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u157	You, as president, are the ones who make the decision. I think it's not exactly the same, in such a case, in the morning that group should ask the same thing that I'm asking for. So you're the one who has the last decision, and I insist that you retire, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u158	Okay, thanks. It's already closed. This is not a debate. There's no replica or counterreplication. That's it. I believe that they are within the political debate and that they can be admitted, even if I ask that they never be used on either side or on the other, because if we are not going to be all the time asking for the floor to withdraw certain expressions used by Members. So, please, we're going to have a cordial debate on the rest of the day, which remains a long day. Quiet, please! Silence! We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. At the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and six other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the commitments relating to the advance of the execution and date of completion of the works of the AVE to Galicia, as well as the action to be taken with regard to the state investments and the planned schedule for this purpose.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u159	This motion for a non-legislative amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u160	Mr. Fernández Prado has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u161	Thank you, President. Good morning. As I said yesterday, the Galician People's Party is today debating this initiative on the completion of the high-speed train between Galicia and Madrid, with the aim of also strengthening from this Parliament the commitment that this strategic infrastructure for the competitiveness, mobility and economic and social development of the community will end within the time limits. The completion of the works of the AVE is a strategic goal, of a country, which is irrevocable, that we must all demand and support. We bring it now — similar petitions have already been made in the past and we support them from the People's Group — just now for a double reason. First to strengthen the position, strengthen the Government of the Union and its President at the meeting held next day 17 in Madrid at the Palace of the Moncloa with the President of the Government of Spain, so that he can go to this meeting with the support of the Greek Parliament. But also, given the uncertainties generated by some statements made by the political leaders of the Socialist Party — now the Government of Spain — by these demands of the Minister of Development to generate doubts about the deadlines for the completion of the AVE to Galicia, because these statements clearly differ from what the technicians and officials of Adef have been saying so far. It is true that the recent appointment as president of the Adif of the Welsh Isabel Pardo de Vera gives some quietness, given that it was the director who planned these works and supervised this date of 2019. Let's hope you don't self-contradicate or have higher orders to do work in another way. The truth is that since the Government of Greece, since the People's Group, if you have a constant, continuous attitude, of demand and demand, already before the Government of Mariano Rajoy, but also now that of Pedro Sánchez, to try to get these works to be completed in 2019, and we believe that in these last months and years of work important commitments have been made. On the one hand, I believe that transparency in the deadlines for the completion of the AVE, because before, with different governments, they were not so transparent. And to have a clear and reliable schedule, which clearly placed the completion of the works in 2019. This attitude of work and follow-up has also been reinforced by the regular visits of the minister of the Serna every three months. All these commitments were made with a prior internal audit, a planned and agreed technical schedule with the companies, and, therefore, we say that we do not need a new audit, but simply check that the deadlines and the schedule that have already been committed, evaluated and agreed between the Government of Spain and that of the Union with the responsible companies are met. Not long ago, almost a hundred contracts, that we're talking about. I mean, it's complex works. But I would like to briefly summarize how these main films and works of AVE Galicia are. Madrid-Zamora has been in operation since 2016, a 30-minute discount has been achieved. Zamora-Pedralba de la Praderia is expected to end at the end of this year. It will also allow, when put into operation, to save another half hour between Galicia and Madrid. The track width changer in Pedralba is in works since June 2017 and must be finished this same summer. And it will make it easier for Alvia trains to travel from Pedralba to Madrid directly along these AVE routes. The higher intensity of the pending performances are between Pedralba de la Praderia and Taboadela, but these works are either completed or in advanced state of execution. In this way, we can say that five of the steps are already finished and eight of them exceed 90% of the execution, so it's easy to achieve this goal, and the planning is that they're finished in spring 2019. The Teixeras viaduct, which a year ago was the most compromised and critical point, is already in full execution and is also ready to end in time. As far as superstructures and complementary elements are concerned, the material is already practically all-adjudicated and much of the works are found, assisted or auctioned. In the remaining cases, virtually all tenders have already been authorized by Adif, by the board of directors, and as we have seen in recent weeks, some of them have already been published in the State Gazette. It's works whose execution is compatible with the completion of the work on the platform, and therefore with the deadlines. It must be borne in mind that part of these contracts have a run-in deadline that goes beyond 2019, which is not incompatible with the completion of the works, because it is planned to cover these contracts for the whole period of subsequent testing, and subsequent certification also by 2020. So nothing happens because they're within that period of 2020, because the testing and testing works will go beyond that 2019. Finally, another of the points where the pending and most complicated jobs are done is the connection between Taboadela and Ourense station. The Circulation of Ourense, of course — as has already been said several times — would not be possible in this period, by the end of 2019, and therefore Adif decided to adapt the existing railway corridor provisionally, while the works of that Circulation are being completed. Therefore, with these provisional works it is also possible that date of the end of 2019. This is a summary, several dozen contracts, but it's obvious by the data, by the work done, by the work done in recent months and years, that it's possible to achieve that date of having finished the works by the end of 2019, as Adif's technicians have said in recent months. So, I was saying, it doesn't come up with statements like the government delegate this week: we didn't do anything to oppose the arrival of 2019. It would only be necessary to do things to prevent these works from coming! But, as we said yesterday, it doesn't just happen to do nothing against it, you have to be on top, you have to work, you have to demand companies that have the assisted works they perform, and for that in many cases you have to double or triple equipment, double or triple subcontracts. And, of course, if you leave the company, economically it would be more profitable for you not to hurry with these doubles or triple shifts in any case. In any case, technically possible. We were committed, and all we expected is that, at that meeting the President of the Generalitat and the President of the Government of Spain, part of the price of having Sánchez in Moncloa are not the infrastructures and the AVE in Galicia. We sincerely hope that on the 17th day the President of the Government will fully confirm all the commitments already made by the Government of Spain with the Government of Greece and with the Greeks and the Greeks, and we sincerely hope that the things that have not been told at this long meeting with the President of the Generalitat, and the costs of a weak president who does not have the parliamentary support in his group, but in other groups who will ask him for many things, are not in exchange for the infrastructures of Galicia, because the deadline is, as we have seen, viable, executable and confirmed by the technicians of Adif. So we believe that all groups can and should support our non-law proposal. We believe that Parliament's support for this meeting on 17th with the President of the Government of Spain, a new reinforcement and a new support for this Parliament, which clearly expresses Galicia's undeniable demand that this infrastructure is essential, is therefore positive for the support of all groups. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u163	The first thing we have to say, Mr. Fernández Prado, is that we are facing a fictitious and devious debate. We're talking, in the case of AVE, about a history of deception and non-compliance. Different deadlines have been announced successively, and now we're in this battle and this fight of the year 2019, which is a discussion that has your trap too, because you know perfectly well that the periods of execution of the works, some of them still unaligned, possibly take us further, taking into account the deadlines, which is the usual in the execution of the works. Finally, in any case, we are not going to do this is to get stuck here in a debate that seems absurd to us on this issue. What if we had, in any case, is to remember. Not to mention that we're talking about the arrival of the Hail Mary in Galicia thirty years after the arrival of Seville, for example. Remember, too, the famous Galician Plan — I don't know if you remember — that Mr. Alvarez Helmets was worth nothing more and nothing less than the Galician medal. By the way, a medal that hasn't been withdrawn from him yet; I don't know if they have hidden debts with Mr. Alvarez Cascos. That plan had absolutely firing and propaganda promises, like a high-speed cantabrian corridor between Ferrol and Bilbao. We don't dream of that, we dream of having a decent 21st century train, which connects, and not what they're doing, that they're literally dismantling and annihilating the train between Ferrol and Ribadeo. That plan proposed the date of 2009, and that date later became in 2012, in 2015, in 2018, in 2019... and we'll see! The stellar chapter of that story of deception and non-compliance, was the famous Covenant of the Spear, signed with great sound by Fascius and White at that time. Yes, I do, because the English word is Fexóo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He made it an ancient Galician graph, and, in any case, the pronouncement Feijóo and it's a castenalization. In any case, the castle form would be there or habichuela, but we're not going to call Mr. President of the Union that way. [[Murmurs.]] It's Mr. Fexóo, as it is Sanxexo, as it is Raxó and as it is Laxe, and not those inventions that just took out the Royal Spanish Academy. Those are the real names of the Greeks, so you do whatever you want. [[Laughter]] Then, if you like, we have a deeper philological discussion, Mr. Prado del Río... No, no, don't confuse. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's keep going. [[Applause]] I remind you of that Covenant on the Works, which established the end -- these things must be said -- in 2015. And Mr Feijóo, in addition, committed himself in 2011, in full precipitate of the election, to which with a new Government of the People's Party he secured and armoured the completion of the works in 2015, because there was to be a minister or minister of the People's Party in the Government of the State who was going to ensure the completion of the works in 2015. That minister was Ana Pastor, and he failed that commitment again. And the AVE didn't arrive in 2015, which came, unfortunately, it was the tragedy of Angrois, because they launched the truce between Ourense and Santiago without due assurances of security. [[Applause]] And now it turns out four years later, and after the vetoes of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, we're seeing how the work of the Congress Research Commission of Deputies starts, but we still lack the political responsibilities of that tragedy that led to the death of 81 people, and many more injured and injured. And the AVE has not arrived for the fall of state investments in recent years, for the low budget execution, of which the governments of the State of the People's Party also have a lot of responsibility with the announcement of Mr. Fexóo's Government, and because you have also refused the creation of a follow-up commission to promote these works and to fulfil the commitments. BNG, of course, wants the commitments to be met, but we want to go beyond this debate. We need a Welsh railway bet strategy within the framework of a plan for sustainable, healthy and secure mobility, and that it is also part of a Welsh agenda, an agenda for the Galician Union and the Government of the State with regard to the Galician infrastructure. That bet is made up of three amendments, in three pliers, which we present as amendments to the improvement of railway infrastructures for the transport of travellers and commodities, with the end of the railway line of the Atlantic axis, The Coruña and Ferrol, and also the connection with Portugal through the southern exit, which were approved in this plenary and failed to comply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u164	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u165	The modernization of the Ferrol-Ribadeo line. End the railway isolation of Lugo. The connection of the ports and the impulse of the freight rail. I'm done, Mr. President, if you'll excuse me. The transfer of competences to Galicia from the internal railway network, as promised by the Galician People's Party Board by 2010. The improvement of services and, above all, the creation of the nearby train. By the way, it has been supported and driven recently by the Socialist Party, and we hope that they will now push it from Madrid. So let's get rid of the longliner and get to work really hard to get a train like this country, a 21st century train. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u166	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Fernández Fernández has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u167	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Simply, Mr. Fernández Prado, three specific points on his intervention quickly. Finishing the AVE. The 2018 budgets of the PP signaled it on the Horizon of 2025, so clear. It's written! [[Applause]] That the protests of the Minister of Development have aroused some doubts about the Socialist Party's commitment to AVE? Man, it seems logical to announce that I was going to do an audit. I think anyone who gets to an institution as responsible for it seems logical to see how things are. That audit itself we don't think it's bad, which if it's bad, it's the distortions concerned that caused the People's Party with that statement, nothing else! From Galicia to Catalonia, the compromises on infrastructures for the weakness of Mr. Sánchez's government? You're looking forward to it. What is seen is the shift to the Basque Country by the People's Government in the 2018 budgets. That's a check. In any case, Mr. Fernández Prado, the hurry has now arrived for the People's Party and for the Government of Mr. Feijóo regarding the arrival of the AVE to Galicia. You didn't respect the grace and courtesy of the new Government. But don't worry, we can now realize the real commitment of the Government of Pedro Sánchez to the arrival of the AVE to Galicia, I will do it along my intervention. Anyway, it's a pity that Mr. Feijóo had been so permissive with the unexecuted budget of the AVE, and it's also a pity that the People's Party had been so understanding with the successive breaches of Mr. Feijóo's commitments with the entry of the AVE into Galicia. They remember, don't they? Mr Bará just said so: 2009; then 2012; later 2014; then 2015; later 2017, you're late for 2018, and now we're in 2019. We are in 2019, indicating in our 2018 budgets that it was in 2025 the finalization. The initiative also repeatedly points out the date of 2019 as a commitment by Mr. Rajoy's Government, but it does so ambiguously, coincided with similar demonstrations by Mr. Feijóo and charges by the People's Party. Mr. Fernández Prado, what real engagement do you mean when you talk about 2019? What is the entrance to Ourense in evidence? Should AVE reach Ourense? What is the completion of the AVE works in Galicia? And if this is the case of the completion of the works, it's in point 1 of your proposal, what do you propose? Does the commitment to the completion of the works refer to the adaptation of the current line Taboada-Ourense or the construction of the variant of Ourense in the plot Ourense-Taboadela or Taboadela-Ourense? I should clarify what the commitment for 2019 is, because if we don't have to think that the People's Party is using the road from AVE to Galicia, fighting different commitments, like a confusing ceremony to cover up the central government's and Mr. Rajoy's failures with the AVE to Galicia, and Mr. Feijóo's passivity and complicity with that situation. Lying is also part of this confusion ceremony. Not many days ago Mr. President, Mr. Feijóo, stated that the Rajoy government has done its budgetary duties to facilitate the connection by AVE of Galicia to the Meseta. We'll see if the two popular presidents have met with the AVE in Galicia or not. The reality, according to the official data provided by the Central Government at the level of execution of planned investments for AVE in Galicia in the last three fiscal years was the following — nothing more —: 2015-2016, available 1,986,247,000; executed 810,849; degree of execution, as much as 40%, 40,82%. That is, of the 1,986 million euros budgeted by the State in the 2015, 2016 and 2017 years, only 1,175 million euros were executed, 60%. Do you really think Mr. Rajoy did his homework with the AVE in Galicia? Do you really believe that Mr. Feijóo's government did some sort of follow-up on budget execution? We socialists have always been committed to AVE Madrid-Galicia; we have been committed to budgets and especially in the execution of these. This same commitment remains. Mr. Sánchez's government has not only stopped nothing but has accelerated tenders and adjudications...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u169	...and he did where to do it, at the BOE. In just one month, works amounting to EUR 125 million were auctioned, and works worth EUR 49 million were fined. This is a real commitment to facts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u170	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u171	It's over, Mr. President. But we also commit in word and in writing, and that is why we tabled an amendment to this initiative, amend what they have at their disposal, which in sum is a clear and public timetable, transparency, the Official State Bulletin rather than propaganda, control of commitments. Mr. Fernández Prado, for us it won't stay, we're in a position of impulse from AVE to Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Fernández. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal Ogang.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u173	Thank you, President. Well, if I hadn't brought the People's Party a propaganda initiative, we'd welcome you to defend Galician interests in front of the State Government. But you don't have much credibility in this matter when you pressure the government. There had to be a change of government in the state so that you would bring initiatives to this parliament to defend Galicia's interests in terms of state investments in Galicia, mainly with the execution of budgets and the bidding. It must be borne in mind that you were the one who on his day announced that he would arrive in 2009, that after they were late, and for the last seven years in the State Government, in the Ministry of Development, they were unable to apply the necessary investments to finish this year, and now they have entered the dams and they want to put pressure on them, now it seems that they are concerned. And not only the lack of investments in the AVE and what happened while the People's Party was in the central government, but the absolute abandonment of investments in the infrastructures of Greece, the generation of new infrastructures and the maintenance of existing infrastructures. And this shows the numbers. The numbers are cold and can fight any kind of propaganda from the People's Party. The budgetary data for those seven years, especially the execution of those same budgets, and the bidding that's being applied. The People's Group has been silent for all these years, not a single requirement to the State Government. All the congratulations and support from the People's Group and the Government of the United Nations, which even made statements saying that the Ministry of Development was doing very well with Galicia when we all met the numbers. And now you want to suck out demanding the Socialist Party to do what you haven't been able to do for seven years. We in the AVE question have always held the same position: that it comes without cuts, that it comes in the right conditions as to competitiveness and security. As soon as competitiveness is no longer possible, we're going to count on a second-hand stroke to Galicia that won't travel in the days that were expected at first; at least there are no safe cuts that cost lives again. We added a series of amendments, three of additions and one of substitutions, which seem to us very important issues that turn on the AVE, and we understand that you should not have a problem in this new defence of Galician interests before the Government of the State to be able to accept because they go on that line, in defending Galician interests in front of the Government of the State. It would be an audit of the effectiveness and rationality of AVE to Galicia. There is a demolition report by the European Court of Auditors which denounces the lack of passengers, inflationary forecasts, over-costs in works and speeds far below those projected. So we understand that an audit would be appropriate. We also request an audit with respect to the environmental aggressions that are taking place in the work of the AVE. We have carried more than thirty illegal verquides in the works of the AVE, in the province of Ourense, between 2010 and 2017, with a ridiculous penalty of 72,800 euros. We think it's necessary to do an audit, explore the possibility of increasing sanctions so they won't continue to be produced, see if you've been looking elsewhere to speed up the works while the environment was being attacked, because it's not all good to cut tapes, or to reduce security or assault the medium. And another one that has to do with the recovery of investment in the Greek infrastructures. That's how we just stayed on the publicity of his proposal. With regard to investments, as I say, numbers are cold. In 2016 the People's Party executed in Galicia 551 million euros, less than in 2002; we go to last century's investment figures in Galicia. The average fall in the execution of investments in Galicia is around 50% over the years before the People's Party entered. In 2016 70% less than in the last budget they met. But we also have the same problem with bidding, that this year's investments are future investments. You left an poisoned burden. Galicia has decreased its bidding level, while the state has grown. It is the autonomous community with the worst evolution of any state in this regard, with a fall of 32%. Falls is from the Central Government, with a fall of more than 60%, while the Board and the Local Administration have increased.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u174	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u175	The central government passed — and finished — from 513 million euros in 2016 to only 183 in 2017, a 65% retreat. As far as infrastructure is concerned, it only licited last year 8.9 million euros, and that's what we'll pay for next year and in the executions of the following years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u176	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u177	So we are not going to support propaganda in a free way. The amendments we have introduced are amendments that are beneficial to Galicia, so we understand that they can be accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u179	And if there's any reason they can't accept it, we'd like them to tell us what the reason is. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal. Mr Fernández Prado has the floor on the initiative's author group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u181	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Mr. Spokesman of the BNG, Mr. Bará, Mr. Jose Lois. Ah!, do you prefer José Luís? Okay, José Luís. Did he match Lois? Okay. You talk about fictitious debate, but look, we're talking about possible deadlines approved by Adif. [[Applause]] I like Tuesday too, don't worry. They call me Martiño, too. Don't worry, the important thing is to have ideas and something to tell, don't worry. Look, I was talking about the Galician Plan to talk about dates, investments and things. Hard to comply with the Galician Plan when the next thing you have to do is call it the Galician Plan, I remember. It's hard. But of course, here you're talking about investments, you forget that Mr Zapatero left us in the biggest economic crisis in Spain's history — yes, yes, no — of what we had to get out of. Don't worry. Not counting the debt and the cashier's bills. They don't care. But what worries me most, Mr. Bará, was that in his sayings he seemed to be justifying a new delay. I hope you're not on that side of the independentists and others and that your words are not justifying a new delay by standing on the side of the independentists and the nationalists. In any case, we believe that the requests for your amendments — already speaking of the amendments, Mr President — can be put into another LNP, not the AVE. We already support them on other occasions and we are willing on another occasion. We are the first to vote in favour of that train to Lugo, of the goods, of the surroundings and of the southern exit of Vigo, among many others of those demands. Mr. PSOE's spokesman, Mr. Fernández, has approved budgets, and also PP's. Those who spoke to the Basques, those are the ones who now want to approve. And what allows that budget is the best guarantee that we can do the works here by 2019; it's the best guarantee, because they have the money. He's talking about previous budgets. Look, define it's arrived... we've already said it, arrived to prove it in 2019. The track will continue to improve over the next few years; the Circulation of Ourense; the improvement and connection... it has never been denied. And to get to the right times we're going to have to keep working after 2019, of course. But what we're saying is that in 2019 the works that allow to be approved during 2020 are finished, that's what we call finishing the works. There's obviously something I've already said that's planned later, because that's what the budgets say and the technical project itself says. In any case, his amendments, I think, are constructive. I think it's possible to reach an agreement. We will try to deal with a text because, frankly, I believe it is possible to reach that agreement. The Tide Voicer. Look, the defence of Galicia's interests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u182	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u183	...the People's Party carries it in DNA, as we talked yesterday and we've been doing it for years, especially since 2009. They can't say the same thing to the left when they were ruling, as we saw yesterday in AP-9. But, in any case, we're going to continue, we've already approved similar demands when Mariano Rajoy ruled. We didn't ask for anything...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u184	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u185	...older, nothing!, just the same as it was done. He was talking about the European audit — just having no more time, he said that AVE and Galicia are the least overrun by Europe. Look at the German, look at the German! AVE to Galicia is the least of all Europe. He's among the five least in all of Europe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u186	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u187	...not from Spain. I think your work is essential for Galicia. Unfortunately your amendments are destructive, they do not want to support, they do not want to build and they do not want to work and support this demand, which I think is important, throughout Galicia, this Parliament, for essential works, for a key infrastructure for Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the demand of a Greek agenda in front of the Central Government
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u189	Let's move on to the next initiative. This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u190	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very good day again. Almost afternoon, at this hour it's almost right to say that. Today, in this last non-law proposal that we are debating in this plenary, since the BNG we believe it is important to generate a debate on a need that we have as a country, and that need is precisely that we put in place a Welsh agenda on subjects that are relevant and that allow our country to move forward, modernize, that we have better living conditions; and finally, that we are able to move those issues that have been going on for years. We think this is important. We also make this proposal at a time and in a context that we consider appropriate in order to be able to formulate an initiative of these characteristics. First — we all know — because there was a change in government, and we believe that it is important that this change in government is a real change for Galicia; that is, there are substantial changes and not that we see that it simply remains in a replacement for the discriminatory treatment of our country. And the second point that we think this initiative is appropriate is because next week, as we have been informed through the public media, there will be a meeting between Feijóo and Sánchez that we think we also need this Parliament to have a debate. If I'm honest with you, it seemed to me that the logic would have been that the president would have appeared in the House to explain what are the demands he is going to make at that meeting, to also collect the contributions that the groups could have and ultimately not only have been helped by being a president of the People's Party and by the proposals of the People's Party, but he had tried at least to seek that agreement, that consensus, that listening to which are the claims we have from the different groups. He didn't do that, and the only information we have is the press. I, in fact, coming to the press, I don't think Mr. Feijóo is going with an agenda of relevant or important themes, and there are, rather, some aspects that are discouraging. He made statements a few days ago — three days ago, this week — where the most prominent thing he was transmitting to us through the media Feijóo was that he was going to raise at that meeting is: "On the 17th day I will make the statements within the Moncloa, because I represent the State in Galicia." I believe that it is a statement of intent from a president who has indeed been delegated by the State to Galicia but who has never acted as president of that country. From that point on, what he tells us is that he's going to talk about infrastructures and other timely issues, and he's just waiting -- that's very good for Feijóo, waiting for him -- to see what news there is about the financing model. Actually, it would be to make almost like a comedy club issue, if it wasn't because we're talking about a very serious topic because issues are at stake that are important to our future as parents. Between lines, and today we see it with great clarity not only in its intervention, but also in the arguments that are being repeated by the Members and Members of the People's Party, what we see is that the change of government also changes the PP's speech. So now the story — a story that interests the People's Party very much — is that Euskadi and Catalonia steal us. That's the story that the People's Party is building, and it's a very disappointing way, of course, of trying to hide the reality we have in this country. Of course, what are the taxes we pay the Greeks and the Greeks? Basquedi, Catalonia? No, no. Save them the state. Who's imposing a single tariff on us that makes us lose opportunities to benefit from electricity production? It's not Euskadi or Catalonia, it's the state that does these kinds of performances. By the way, it was a People's Party government who agreed with the PNV a Basque electric tariff, while here you voted against a Welsh electric tariff. A whole statement of intent on how you understand this country. And the new theory now is that what matters to us is multilaterality, and what you invest in other parts of it consult. Of course, I wonder if at some point the state decided to consult us that the first AVE to be done was the AVE to Andalusia. I don't know if at any time the state decided to consult us if in naval conversion the logic was to sacrifice the German naval sector. I do not know whether at some point the State has decided to ask us whether the reform of the common agricultural policy should be sacrificed was the interests of the single country's agricultural sector and exclusively to benefit other sectors of the State. It's, of course, a real delusion. I also have to say that it is disappointing, and one thing that remains very clear to us, that here you are concerned about, what they really care about, is to be faithful to the lines of action that mark the People's Party at the state level, and it is clear that in this battle they are going against all the nationalist forces of the nations without a state at the moment, and that clearly what they want is to deny Galicia and leave her out of the nation's train. In any case, we today that we put here is an initiative with which we seek an agreement on country issues that, as I say, allows us to leave all these years of trouble behind. Because, really, it's very shocking to see how they rewrite the past. So we've been in Mariano Rajoy's government for a few years, and what they meant for this country was: the veto of the transfer of AP-9; we've gone up twice as far as the average of the state; continuous delays and non-compliances with the AVE; this immoral extension of Ence — of course, I'm still insisting that this is a case of institutionalized corruption manual. And with this balance they come here to tell us that Rajoy's government has been wonderful for this country, and in the face of all these hardships, what we have seen is like you always, always, applauded each and every one of these discriminations. In any case, as I say, we have a new context and I think it's smart to try and take advantage of the opportunities that generate these new contexts. That's why we're talking about the need to set up a Welsh agenda; a Greek agenda in which there are general issues that affect us in a very important way. We think that we have to repeal those laws that go against public rights and freedoms, such as the law bites, labour reforms, LOMCE... that we have to make an effort to increase pensions or promote feminist policies. We think these are key themes that should be incorporated into that agenda. Just as it would be necessary that, in the face of some of the hardships we have seen in recent times, this Parliament has unanimously called for real commitments by the State, such as the transfer of AP-9, to derogate this immoral extension of Ence, the claim of the return of the Peace of Meirás to Galicia, that we have a real investment plan in the modernization of our railway. Because, of course, we argue that AVE has to arrive at Galicia already for a matter of justice. You've been justifying all delays for years. But the modernization of the railway doesn't end and it starts there, and Galicia is a country that needs to be able to communicate by rail not only on the Atlantic axis, but we also want a Coruña-Ferrol connection, we want the modernization of FEVE, which is in a state of unfortunate abandonment. We who are Euroregion, Galicia-North of Portugal, see how the connection with Porto, which would be a connection with Lisbon, is absolutely paralyzed; that is, there are key themes in the articulation of our country that are out of the agenda, that have always been out of the agenda, and that we need to give them a real boost. Like other subjects that are quiet, like correcting the financing of the Greek municipalities. We keep betting because Galicia is not a poor country that lives from other people's resources, but we live from our own resources. So, as we trust the country, we want an economic concert that allows us to manage all taxes and have fiscal capacity, and we also want to move forward in real self-government. It takes Mr Feijó a record — this is indeed a historical record — zero competences in these nine years, and it would be good if, at least, apart from the transfer of AP-9, we had called for the ports of general interest, the competences in the area of traffic; that we had finally called for more real self-government to be able to meet the interests of our country. Since the Block we have proposed this initiative with the will that we be able to reach agreements, that there be mandates in this Parliament that are heard, and above all that serve to ensure that this change that takes place in the State is not a substitute for discrimination with our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u192	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. For the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leicega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u193	Good morning again. I agree with Mrs. Pontón that the new government means an opportunity to establish in a different way the relations between the Autonomous Community and the State Government. There is undoubtedly a new political set, which is characterized, among other things, by fragmentation, also in the Congress of Deputies, and which consequently includes as a basic component the negotiation between the different political groups in establishing consensuss that allow things to go forward. I think this is the way we should act. It doesn't make much sense to cling, without being able to change anything, to the positions that each one has, because that leads us to minority positions which do not allow for consensus building, most of which reinforce Galicia's position in this case. I think, unfortunately, the BNG in its proposal did not move in the direction that demands the current political situation in neither Spain nor Galicia. And I'm not going to go into the reasons why this is so. It gives the impression that it's more about shielding a proper social base than moving forward in the search for majority social consensus. I'm going to give you two examples. In this Parliament it is clear that the position in favour of the economic concert system that gives rise to the coupon in the case of the Basque Country, or to the contribution in Navarre, is a minority position. Some complaints are approved by this Parliament under the current system of self-financing which increases Galicia's financial adequacy and also increases the financial autonomy of our country. I think it would make more sense to work to transfer to the Government of Spain that this is Galicia's position, because that's what makes it possible to build. And something similar to the electric tariff. There's no electric fee. There's no electric fee. In Spain legislation requires a unified treatment of the whole territory. So it doesn't make sense that demand because it doesn't correspond to a possibility that exists in legislation. That's more, even if we wanted to make a Welsh fare in view of the distribution costs, we might take some unfortunate surprise. So it doesn't make sense to insist on matters that are minority. It makes sense to build a Galician agenda, to negotiate with the Government of Spain, which departs from the minority positions of our Parliament. That's what we tried. There are some questions you have raised that undoubtedly we see with sympathy, although they usually put some point to them, some vest, which makes it difficult for us to fully integrate, and there is some other one that can be negotiated, but many of them are made so that it cannot be shared by this whole Parliament. We prefer to work in that direction, which is why we propose an ambitious amendment, which takes the issues you pose and places them in a framework of possible agreement with the Government of Spain, which takes into account the parliamentary reality in Galicia, which takes account of the legislative framework and which also takes into account something that is basic: one cannot move as a responsibility of the Government which on many occasions depends on a Congress of Members who are a fragmentary congress, where some of the issues raised will hardly have a majority agreement. We'd rather work that way. We believe that we must be demanding of the Government of Spain. We will continue to maintain our position towards the future on issues of funding, autonomic or local. By the way, in the field of local funding we prefer to start from the positions of the Fegamp because they represent a very broad majority of the municipalities of Galicia, which has also been formulated by means of a prolific and accurate report on this matter. And we also want to take into account what is said in the report by the Committee of Experts, which has recently moved forward in a reform of the local finance architecture that we believe the new government should agree. And so on. So we're not going to go back to what our positions so far are, but we're not going to let ourselves be convinced by minority positions either. We build majority positions, and we ask the President of the Council of Galicia that these shared positions in Galicia transfer them to the Government of Sánchez, knowing his willingness to meet demands from different territories to understand Spain's plurality. This is a guarantee and I hope we see this as an opportunity and not a threat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Leicega. Mrs Santos Queiruga has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u195	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from En Marea we can only agree with this initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, since it is unquestionable for us that Galicia, our country, must be at the heart of state policy and the framework of the European Union. We are one of the three historical nations recognized within the Spanish State by the Spanish Constitution itself, so shadowed by constitutionalist parties, despite the fact that this is still recognized by euphemisms as a plurinational state for Spain. One country, Galicia, indeed, with enormous potential, with great opportunities to take advantage of, and specific needs peculiar to the positive diversity of our state. That positive and rich diversity that the People's Party, and now its orange shadow, are engaged in irresponsible and tactical satanization, irresponsible with Galicia itself and our people. We share the analysis that we are still in time to reverse the situation of Galicia, reverse the consequences of leaving and not recognizing what we are and what we can do about the governments of the People's Party, and of the very historical disillusionment that you came suffering as a people and as a country: geographic isolation, political isolation, constant migration exodus and a long et cetera that we all know perfectly well. Today, in addition, we are suffering the consequences of neoliberal policies that have devastated the entire state and Europe, and the consequences of structural corruption in their illegal forms, but also in legal forms, as can be the cases of the Angrois drama, the extension of Ence or the Álvaro Cunqueiro hospital. This caused a massive deterioration of the welfare state, of the public services, a disloyal of the Greek productive sectors: fishing, livestock, agriculture, science and research in Greece, not forgetting how the real decision-making power was granted here too, or the centre of general interest, to the board of directors of the Galician People's Party and not to this Parliament, the House of Representatives of the People's Party. All of this led to unprecedented social deterioration in the times we live, in the form of unemployment, precariousness in all countries, and new exodus of economic exiles, that external mobility which in the reflection of more than a new form of emigration of the most qualified youth who seeks refuge in other countries, and which would have to be the future, the progress and the vanguard of our Greek country, and for which the Government has no agenda or proposals for the future for them to return. There is a growing need to change the failed and rejected economic and social policies already, at last, by the diverse majority of the state. It will be very difficult and hard to reverse, however, the defeat of popular governments, and of course in Galicia of Feijóo governments, the government of mortars disguised as superstores. You have deteriorated and privatized public services as no one else, you continue to show your majority exerted in an absolutistic manner, you have no illusion to rule, you don't believe in Galicia, you don't even think in Welsh and Welsh. They're installed in a comfortable government, based on total media control and marketing, which for all of us is a drama. Fortunately they raise the country's employees and public employees and the mass of workers and workers in the private sector, from the hands of the Greek economic sectors, and almost better that way. But we cannot afford this; we cannot afford to continue to give in to the weight of decisions not to govern nor to fight for the rights and interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, nor in the state, because they do not bet on the real capacity of self-government of Galicia, to move to the real life of the people of our country, and much less in Europe. You make decisions or don't make any decisions, which comes one after another to the Greeks and the Greeks, and spoil our development and well-being. Because you don't think of the people who have to rule, they're in other things, they're in their internal trouble for power, for their lullaby with justice, for Mrs. Sáenz of Santa Maria's mass destruction files for Mr. Feijóo, and in all this mess. He also has the aggravating effect of being sent to prison and filtering each other to have problems with justice. [[Murmurs.]] Forget about the Greeks and the Greeks and their real problems and needs. They forget that the Galicians suffer in their pockets the costs of AP-9, vetoing a transfer that would allow them their gratuitousness or prevent abusive payrolls from compared to the rest of the state. The abandonment and limitation of our fishing capacity. They forget the bad situation of the rivers and the Galician mountains, while they justify themselves in a public labor policy of wasting everyone's money for infrastructures that then are useless. And not to mention measures to combat Galician structural corruption that both the Galician PP and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office or the Anti-Fraud Office simultaneously veto this Parliament. We agree that the change of government in the state must open a new stage. We hope that the new majority in the Congress of Deputies, characterized by the mix, the recognition of diversity, and with a Confederal group that recognizes Galicia as what it is, as a historical nation, through the En Marea Group, which has already focused on these issues that are gathered on the initiative on the Greek agenda that we need, and many more questions, so that the real commitments that are needed for our people are effectively implemented, and for that we look forward to the real commitment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u196	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u197	...—and ended—of the Socialist Party, right now in the Government, and that they are not only empty promises, which are what we have been accustomed to so far. Because within these beautiful territorial borders we live so many people that we need a consensus of justice and that we deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u198	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos. Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u199	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. The truth, Mrs. Santos, is to tell you about internal struggles in the same week when members of your party want to carry their voice, and where one of your MP militants in this House goes from your party, the truth is that it produces tenderness. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] From the height of his speech, I do not understand how Mr. Pedro Sánchez did not take her into his government as a minister, because he would give the guy perfectly. [[Laughter]] Speaking of which, Mrs. Pontón, the truth is that you are the one who brings this initiative to the House. You, who is the most veteran of this House, are bringing this initiative. You know better than anyone, Mrs. Pontón, that many years ago the Galician People's Party and the BNG confront and compare their political agendas. Many years ago. We compare our political agendas, our country model, our vision of what it is and what it must be Galicia, and what it really needs our land. Therefore, perhaps I would not be too much, Mrs Pontón, to point out that since you are a Member — fourteen years ago — the PPdeG has not stopped going up and the BNG has not stopped coming down. You don't think I'm to blame, but maybe it wouldn't be wrong for you to analyze why this happens. Here, and at the Congress of Deputies, where you have to speak by the mouth of Bildu. So I think it would not be bad for a little humility, because the political agendas are faced every four years and every day, at the Congress of Deputies and also in the Parliament of Galicia. In the Congress of Members we have Members representing us. I think it's not a good attitude that you're the only one who's right and most of the Greeks are wrong. That is the same argument that Mr de las Mareas, Mr Fernán Bello, used to say that the Greek was an ignorant and alienated people. Well, I'm sorry you share that philosophy. Look, our political agenda is exactly the same as President of Government Mariano Rajoy or Pedro Sánchez, exactly the same. What we want to know is whether yours will be exactly the same or not, because the reality is that our political agenda is marked by the general interests of Galicia and itss is marked by ideology. And you anticipate their ideology, even though that ideology undermines the general interest of our country. You don't care about nationalistic and separatist postulates, Galicia doesn't care. Galicia gives it exactly the same. And I'd like to know if you're gonna keep your schedule or not, because the truth is we're keeping the same claims. The same claims we had with the Government of Mariano Rajoy are the same ones we're going to have with the Government of Pedro Sanchez. But you don't, and we have experience on these issues, because BNG has a different political agenda when ruling the People's Party and when ruling socialists. When the PP governs you demand the transfer of AP-9. When the Socialist Party rules, they vote against it. It happened in 2007. When ruling the PP they don't value that we can save 400 million euros in peas. They don't appreciate it. When ruling the Socialist Party they are part of the Government that decided that Galicia had paid fees for a highway that was not ours. All right, caramba! When the People's Party rules, 11% of the total state investments are very little. When the Socialist Party governs, 8% is smart cooperation. Fuck! Well, I think 11% is more than 8%, Mrs. Pontón, and that's what a People's Party lord and a Welsh Nationalist Block lord knows. What happens when the People's Party rules? They regret the delay of AVE, they don't recognize that there are now works with certain deadlines and commitments. When the Socialist Party ruled, they applauded those who promised that the AVE would arrive in 2010, or in 2012. That's the Galician Nationalist Block, and that's your commitment. Mr. Leicega, anyone would say you won the election after you heard it! I have to tell him they didn't win, they lost them. They have lost them with the worst result of the history of the Socialist Party in the history of democracy: 84 Members. I'm saying it because, listening to it, anyone would say you just won a few elections. No, no, they lost them, and they came to the government hostages of the PdeCat, of the Republican Left of Catalonia, of Podemos and even of Bildu, that's the reality! So I have to tell you that we are concerned about the situation of the Government of Spain. Worried that those commitments that were pending until now this Government can fulfill them for their weakness. We are concerned about this situation of the Socialist Party of the Government of Spain, but we are also concerned about the attitude of the PSdeG-PSOE, a purchasing attitude with a government that arrives and says: now it's all in doubt. Look at this picture, you're there, you must recognize yourself. There you are, there is Mr. Gonzalo Caballero, there is the new Minister of Development. This is the image of treason, of treason to Galicia's interests. They were there to meet with the new Minister of Development to see if there were any excuses to justify the delay of the AVE. You will be the necessary collaborators of the Government of Pedro Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u200	Finish, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u201	They will justify an unjustifiable delay, and we, of course, will not collaborate with that attitude. We will continue to defend exactly the same as we defended when the president of the Government was Mariano Rajoy, exactly the same: that the AVE comes in the last quarter of 2019. Mrs. Pontón, about your initiative and amendment, we do not agree with the issues you pose. If we can agree with many of the points raised by the Socialist Party. So I propose that you accept the amendment of the Socialist Party, and we would vote on some of the points. That's right, to see if the Galician Socialist Party puts at the point of the AVE the committed date and keeps the deadlines committed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u202	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u203	...and, therefore, we can give him back...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u204	Mr. Tellado, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u205	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u206	Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, I have to start with a previous question that has nothing to do with the debate, but with a call I make in general. I don't think it's necessary to enter into the personal disqualification of anyone, or with shortcomings like what we hear here today in this plenary. I think it's totally inappropriate, and I feel that that's the tone that the People's Party uses here. You made a comment about a Member who seems to me to be totally disqualified in the staff, and I'm going to say so, because I think that sort of thing is absolutely up. [[Murmurs.]] Especially because insults disqualify you. But it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u208	Go on, please. Quiet, please! Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr Tellado, the debate is over. Now Mrs. Pontón is in the use of the word. Please, we have guests!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u209	And guests
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u210	A little bit of Parliament's image. We have guests. Quiet, quiet! That's it. They are observing that it is difficult for Parliament to be controlled. Have some respect. You don't speak now, you don't belong to him. A little respect for the guests. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Suspense. I'm suspending the plenary. Mr. Tellado, I'm suspending the plenary. You'll see! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u211	Take my watch running for more than a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u212	Don't worry about the clock, Mrs. Pontón. Now it's your turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u213	The spokesman of the Socialist Party made an intervention in which he came to tell us something like that we are very bad because we came here to defend our ideas and even make a dichotomy, that most justify what is right and what is wrong. There were most people who said that women couldn't vote, and fortunately there were minorities who fought, and even some lost their lives, so that women could vote Finally, these are the historical dynamics that are given. [[Applause]] They always deny that the Basques have a Basque tariff, but it's a reality that's established, in this case only for their businesses. And you, who knows the initiative we put forward, know it's a clearly political debate. It's a political debate, among other things, because what we're talking about is a reduction in the rates that are imposed by a political decision, and if you don't know the proposed Greek electric tariff, I'm capable of sending it back, and I'm sure you'll understand the error of what you're talking about. The PP, as always, also goes back to that argument, and as most of them, they're right at all. So we can close Parliament and the groups can't come here to make proposals, because this is literally what you came here to defend the spokesperson for the People's Group. I'd also appreciate it if you didn't manipulate my words, because you put phrases in my mouth that I didn't say. I insist that manipulation, I know it comes from the manual they give them when they enter the People's Party, but at last this is not, of course, an acceptable practice. [[Murmurs.]] Actually... I don't know what Mr. Rueda wanted to tell me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if you have anything to say to me. I'm willing to ask for a word if you think it's appropriate. May I continue my intervention? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Rueda. We're just supposed to come here to defend ideology. Yes, indeed, we came here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u214	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u215	...that we ask the pensions of the Greeks and the Greeks, which are the lowest in the entire state, to which we claim to the state the 180 million euros due to our dependence, that there are 22,000 people in this country who have the right to dependency, and were unable to claim what the state owes us, unique and exclusively. [[Applause]] We've come here to demand the transfer of AP-9 to lower the rates, because, PP spokesperson, the People's Party did not eliminate any toll, which has risen a barbarity in it all these years, and the Greeks and the Greeks are paying more and more fees. What we've come to defend is not only that we want the work of the AVE to be completed, that we want a modern train between Coruña and Ferrol, that we want inside, in Lugo and Ourense, to be able to travel by rail. And look, 11% of nothing is nothing. In fact, 11% is more than 8%, yes, but it's that 2,000 million euros is more than 900.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u216	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u217	I don't really know what they're coming to us today to teach you here. We regret that in the face of a proposal from parents, a proposal in which we are really talking about defending the interests of Galicia before the state, putting on themes in which we actually change the frame because we believe that we need to move frames so that we can move forward in Galicia, the sad thing is that the only thing you come to tell us here is that, as most have, we cannot think of the others. And that's how it goes because, all these years, what we see is the partisan use that the People's Party makes of Galicia. He did it first leading us to political irrelevance, and now what they show us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u219	...—Final president, only one sentence—the only thing they show us is that Galicia will simply be used to oppose the central government. They're still using Galicia for... [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón, your time is up. Please, the times are over. We proceed to the votes of the non-legislative motions. Close the doors, please. As you know, there was a joint debate of the first proposal, not of law. They were three non-law propositions, and they made me come up with a transaction agreement to which I started reading. The text says: "The Galician Parliament, recognizing the important work done for years by historians and historians and associations of historical memory for the return of the Peace of Meirás, and institutions such as the Deputation of the Crown and the Town Hall of Sada, among others, urges the Union of Galicia to: Point 1. That urgently transmits the report of the Committee of Experts appointed by the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order, in accordance with the resolution of the Galician Parliament, on the possibilities of incorporating into the public heritage the property of the Meirás towers, with all its documentary attachments, to the General Administration of the State, with the request that the legal actions referred to in the report be carried out in its final conclusion, with the aim of reintegrating the towers or Peace of Meirás to the scope of the public domain goods of the General Government of the State. Point 2. Incorporating, as soon as such legal action is exercised, into the civil process as an accessible adjutant. Point 3. The Galician Parliament declares its desire that the restoration of the Peace of Meirás to the public heritage does not entail a new cost for the people of Galicia." Good deal, we're going to vote. My grandfather sure will be happy today. We vote. Vote for the transactional text of G.P.'s non-legislative proposals. Mr de In Marea, on the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luis Bará Torres and five other Members, and G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the actions to be carried out by the Union of Galicia in relation to the achievement of the goal of incorporating the palace of Meirás into the public heritage. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 75. The voting is positive. The text of these non-legislative proposals is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u221	Let us now vote on the three points of the non-legislative motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament regarding support for initiatives related to the recovery of Meirás palace for the public heritage. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 41; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u222	We are now voting on the proposal from the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Da Noela Blanco. There is a self-amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the amendments of the Parliamentary Groups of the Nationalist Block Galego and En Marea are accepted. We vote. [[Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez asks for the floor.]] I'm sorry. Yes, Mrs. Vispo, why do you want the word? Give a voice to Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u223	In spite of the consensus announced, we have not been summoned to reach any agreement, I would ask you to vote on points, since the initiative has three points and the amendments have only come to the second point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u224	Mrs. Blanco, do you accept the point vote? No, you don't. Silence! [[Protests.]] Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u225	I think it's just like Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, who allowed an explanation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u226	You're the owner of the initiative. You don't accept it and you don't accept it, point. It's over and there's nothing to discuss. That's it, that's it. Quiet. That's it! You're the owner of the initiative. We vote. Quiet. We therefore vote, as I said earlier, the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Group. We vote. Quiet, we're voting. Quiet, please. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia, in relation to the compliance, application and development of Law 2/2014 of 14 April, for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u227	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Luís Villares. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was accepted and accepted as an addition to the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. I don't know if they've agreed or not agreed. There's no deal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then we vote on the non-law proposal. [[Mr. Villares Naveira asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Villares?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u228	Just explain that it was not possible to reach an agreement because in addition, and we say that even in extremes, we offer a point vote so that the People's Party can choose which one it approves.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u229	I had to ask him, but that's it. If you like, you can ask for a point vote, but that's another story. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in the Order of Aids to alleviate the damage caused by the explosion of a pyrotechnic in Paramos, in the Town Hall of Tui, as well as the actions to be carried out in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41 The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u230	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo. There are no amendments, we voted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Martínez Rumbo and three other Members, on the preparation by the Government of Galicia, after the corresponding Commission report, of a new catalogue of public shows and recreational activities adapted to the current reality. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41 The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u231	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado. There's a transaction I have here. If you want to read it... it's long. Do you know her? The first point exactly says... Mr. Leicega asked me to read the first point. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, if he asked me, I'll read it: "To go to the State Government to ratify the committed date of completion of the works of the AVE to Galicia, with the objective that it is operating in tests in 2019, as had been committed by the former state executive." We vote for the transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. At the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and six other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government in relation to the commitments referred to in the advance of the execution and date of completion of the works of the AVE to Galicia, as well as the action to be carried out with regard to the state investments and the schedule for this purpose. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; abstentions, 20. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u232	Finally, the non-law proposition of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Donna Belén Pontón Mondelo. I do not know if you have accepted the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I do not accept the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the demand for a Welsh agenda in front of the central government. When the vote was taken, it gave the following result: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 55. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u233	Mrs. Blanco, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u234	Under Article 76(2), more than anything to ask the Presidency a question. Yesterday there happened in this House with a companion of this Parliamentary Group, to which the Sea Councillor directly referred with a gesture striking her face. Today it happened again when it was this vote by a member of the People's Party. I want to know if the House Presidency supports that kind of gesture and, if not, I would ask you, Mr. President, that, if it is true that you reject it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u235	I get it. That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u236	...has equal treatment with all parliamentary groups in this House. Nothing else and thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u237	Wait, wait, I'll answer you. In that I agree, we must comply with everyone, we must comply with everyone, which is what I am asking. But I also remind you that there has already been one of your group who did it to this presidency. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not you, you're not exactly. Silence! It's not exactly you. [[Murmurs.]] That is, I therefore ask them to work together. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Silence! We'll stop the session. We'll get it back at 4:30, at 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u238	Let's go back to the sixth point, which is the question mark. Interpellation by Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia on pediatric health care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u239	Mr. Torrado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u240	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. These are difficult hours of a complicated whole, but, well, we intend to have a debate that from our point of view we think is interesting, no doubt. And we believe, in addition, Mr. Counselor, that it is quite possible that it can be in a constructive way. We're going to give you our opinion on a situation where we all know that there's a problem, such as the situation of pediatric care in Galicia, although it's not the only one here, and where we think it's possible to find some common positions and also where we have some evaluations of what we think is not entirely well done or which, in some way, we think could have improved in recent years. There is obviously a problem in pediatric care, which is not unique to Galicia, it is not unique now, and in recent times it has been recruiting a little, but which, of course, generally affects all Spain and which, therefore, we are not. And this problem has, from our point of view, two aspects: there is a political problem, which has to do with managing resources and giving attention to the best possible quality; and it has a social problem, because it is obviously a problem that affects in a special way the question that has to do with the attention of children and children, which always produces an added concern and that parents and mothers produce some anxiety, often founded and many other times founded from the emotional point of view; but, although health care is well covered, because it often does not stop having a difficult implication, and that causes explanations sometimes not entirely complete from the point of view of parents and mothers. The latter, we think, is important to keep in mind, because we often sit or sit down from the administrations -- and we think that this would usually do so -- that when matters arise from a technical point of view, there is no longer any need to explain. And from our group, we believe that, in addition to the fact that technical issues can at some point match or can be sufficiently consolidated from a care point of view, it is necessary to have a voluntary attitude towards patients or users in this case, parents and mothers. Why? Because their perception, as we say, is delicate and, therefore, we believe that in this case the Council is sometimes certainly occult. We didn't just say it. The media often reflect that it's hard to get some data -- and we think that shouldn't be a problem -- and sometimes even quite disparate about some issues. Where is the source of the pediatric problem? There's a number deficit in pediatricians. It's not a Galician problem, it's a general problem, but there's a numerical deficit of pediatricians in general throughout Spain. Yes, it exists. Is this counselor a problem? No, no, no, no. Is it Galicia's board thing? No, no, no, no. But if we believe that there are some issues that should be addressed to know if there really is any possibility of being made or given some solution or not. We believe that going to why this problem can contribute to giving a vision of what should be done or what can be done, whether it is desired, and what it is not done or not done until now. There are two ways to deal with the problem. One is from the point of view of management: the mere technical management, the technocrat, of moving papers and taking up quite a scenario, and what we're looking at is that the Board almost enjoys treating this situation as mere managers, because it gives it the opportunity that this numerical deficit is an excuse to reduce service. It's not understood almost as a problem, but it's an excuse: as there are few, I don't have to pay enough attention and therefore I already have the excuse to say that I'm doing all I can do and this board does things well, because, since there are no pediatricians, you have to stand by. We are nothing of this policy of "what there is," which you, in terms of personnel, pointed out not much in an interview. "That's what there is" is not a policy that we consider acceptable, and less in terms of public services, and much less in the field of health. This perspective of management that uses the deficit of pediatricians as an excuse also tends to seek guilty, external, always, of course — where will self-criticism be?, it won't be very painful. The culprits are always others. I have come to hear here that the culprit that there are no pediatricians in Galicia was, of course, the Government Tourin — as it could not be otherwise —. And this was told here in this gallery, because the Government Tourin didn't do what it did, and I'm sure there's a chance to argue that the Government Tourin has almost everything to blame, even what happened before the Government Tourin. And the question is that with this management position, to process things, because you end up continuing and assuming a problem, perpetuating it, because managing a problem and not transforming it means perpetuating it, and we believe that that's not a good solution. Today we are faced with a trend that exists — in the last few weeks — of the concentrations of pediatric care in the comarca headsets fundamentally, or — let us say — in the larger, more relevant populations, about those around them, due to that numerical problem of the pediatric deficit. What we have to say is that managing this problem means -- as we said at the outset -- not really giving that information, actually giving it when it appears and not having commented, informed or disseminated previously, not having offered an explanation why, not meeting the demands of parents and mothers who feel that the service is lost or is not well attended, and if you really explain it to them whether it is so or not, and therefore fail to meet that social dimension of the problem. And besides, they've hidden information that we're concerned about whether it's true and that we're clearly transferring it to the question. We want to know if these concentrations of pediatric care service will be permanent in the comarcas. Because our fear is that the board ends up doing as it does many times: it's doing a measure, it's going to introduce it, then it lengthens a little longer than it was planned, then it lengthens a little longer, then it says it's going very well and, finally, when you realize, it's implanted and there's no going back. We want to know whether the Council's intention is that these measures should be permanent to focus pediatric care around the largest health centres and to eliminate the pediatrics in rural areas, based on this deficit of pediatricians. Faced with this model of management, there is the model of politics as we understand it from the Socialist Group, which is transformative policy: to recognize problems but to be non-conformist. What's this supposed to mean? Produce, cause transformations. How can things be changed? Through strict analysis and some self-criticism. There are probably a number of issues that may affect the problem of paediatric deficits, but there are two that we consider essential. First of all, the level of training, the formation of pediatricians or the increase in paediatric squares, especially in primary schools, because in recent years there has been an effect of increasing pediatric training in hospitals but not in primary care. And we want to know whether that perception is shared or not, and we believe that this leads to loss of primary pediatric care capacity. Because the truth is, the trend that points to all the scientific societies of pediatricians is that there is now more tendency to train pediatricians in other fields than in primary care. And secondly — and we believe this to be the most important — there is a problem with work. Spain is one of the worst working conditions for its professions in Europe — not the worst but one of the worst — and Galicia is one of the worst working conditions in all of Spain. What's going on? That when people start their professional careers they end up accepting some situations to predict that they can improve, that they might have a walk, but when they end up going through ages where they prefer to think about stabilising a certain life, forming a family and establishing themselves somewhere, they find that they don't have that possibility in Galicia. We have a huge difficulty in consolidating professionals, because labour care and working conditions in Galicia are closer to an almost exploitative model in the private sector than should be a quality public job. And we believe those conditions are key. You know for sure the data: since 2012 — which is the year in which this data is known — in Spain more than 20,000 medical professionals have asked for their degree in foreign to be able to work outside. Probably — I don't have the exact data — but not the one else, but the one else, they're pediatricians; they're data from the Spanish science society of pediatricians, the Spanish Society of Pediatrics — if you want, I can facilitate the data, and in addition they're official data from the Ministry; but, Counsellor, don't worry, I'll provide you with the data whenever you want: 20,479, if the data isn't inaccurate; I said 20,500, if I'm allowed to round up. From there we analyzed, we have many professionals outside of Spain, mainly in Britain, there are now in France, there are many in Portugal, but there are professionals outside of Spain. Why? Because here they don't have the working conditions they need. So what we're thinking is whether you share or not, whether the Council shares this analysis or not, beyond trying to underestimate the data we offer. Don't worry, it's so hard to get data in Galicia to give us the Counsellor that we ask them elsewhere where they do. They're so not used to giving data that it surprises them when we have someone who's not from the Council. But there's no problem. If you can make it easier for us to get what the Council says about the titles in Galicia that asked for their clearance outside, we'd be delighted to have them. It's a good way to correct the data. What we've been thinking about is whether what has been done so far they consider it to be okay or if they have some consideration that they can improve, because there are professionals who consider the situation to be better and because there are parents and mothers who feel that their demands are not being well answered. And we think they have part of reason, because, although there's part of the problem, there's no one on the other side who hears the situation. And there are many parents and mothers from many places that see how pediatric care is losing capacity and having less rights or having less accessibility to the system than they had before, and no one gives them an answer about it. So we want to know what your real position is. We know he'll say everything's fine and they're working hard. But if it's possible, see if for once we're capable of realising...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u241	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u242	...that's what they're working on and what issues they think they should improve. For now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u243	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u244	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very late. First of all, I would like to begin with a statement of principles and say that the Galician Council places pediatric care on primary care, mainly because some Members do not know that in Europe there are virtually no European countries pediatricians in primary care and some autonomous community is currently considering that there are no pediatricians in primary care. And so I'm going out and I'm saying that the Galician Union itself bets on pediatrics in primary care. Spain, as I said, is one of the few countries that bet on pediatrics in primary care. And Galicia, within the national context, is one of the communities with the highest rate of pediatric coverage, close to 90%, in front of other communities — like Balearics, for example — in which almost half of the children have no pediatricians and are cared for by medical practitioners of the family, by the way, very well-trained and with a training also for a period of months in pediatrics, and therefore they pay attention to what I think is important. In Castilla-La Mancha it is 42%; in Madrid, Extremadura, Valencian Community, Murcia, Andalusia and Canary Islands it is around 30%. Therefore, Galicia, within Spain, is in a position I think forward; and, of course, if we compare it to Europe, far ahead. That is why my attention is drawn to the fact that the Spanish pediatricians are going to Europe, curiously where they have much less coverage; where they can be there is simply in hospitals; we are in hospitals and we are in primary care. In Galicia we believe in the current model of pediatric care specialized in health centers for Galician children. And that's how this data proves. We note that the number of children in Galicia 20 years ago was 391,646, and at that time there were in Sergas 289 pediatricians; it is almost 1 pediatrician every 1,355 children; I speak of 20 years ago. At the moment the number of children has unfortunately fallen by 20% — if it is the real problem — and the figure has fallen in 2017 by 312,243 children. At that time, primary-care pediatricians increased by 13%, up to the 327 current-day pediatricians. It's also a reality the difficulty of recruiting new pediatricians, because there's zero unemployment, and therefore when these specialists go on vacations, it's not always possible to replace them. In order to overcome this situation in the holiday period, a number of measures have been established, some measures that are general, of all Sergas professionals, but of course also for pediatricians, such as expanding the possibility of retirement — it was up to 65 years—; now it is being reviewed annually and it is already in 68 years. Besides, it's promoting the uptake of professionals outside Galicia. Moreover, since June, the Ministry of Health, Consumers and Social Welfare has also been asked to increase the number of professionals to be trained. In Galicia there are as many specialists as possible year after year, with the twenty existing accredited squares, and yet there are no specialists available on the recruitment lists. But in the vacation periods of the professionals this is not enough to ensure pediatric care continuity. So we propose a reorganization through the reference centers in pediatric care in Galicia. The current model of primary pediatric care can be optimized and we now have the opportunity to do so. The most outstanding aspects that we can improve are the following. Many professionals provide assistance in health centers of very small scattered population centres, investing part of their work days in displacements between different points of attention. In very small nuclei, where attendance occurs only once a week, families don't know where they have to go in case they need their pediatrician for the rest of the day, because it's hard to remember what point of attention they're going at every moment with travelling pediatricians. There are major differences in the volume of assistance that each pediatrician offers, as the average ICT is 955 children and children, while some of the population centres that are cared for by pediatricians only have dozens of children. In this situation some of the days of the week these professionals offer assistance to one or two or even to no child or child when there is another nearby health center, which discourages professionals and is an inequality in the system. We believe that it is necessary to create a new model of pediatric care for the holiday period, because in Galicia we want to guarantee the advantages of the medical care model offered by pediatricians to our children. This attention — but once again — is a very important issue and its reorganization cannot be planned only from the Health Administration. It's essential that pediatricians also participate in their planning. We are aware that only by pooling forces, only by counting on all points of view, can we offer the best assistance to our children. So, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months Sergas and the scientific societies of pediatrics have been working to propose a new reorganization of pediatrics in primary care. President, ladies and gentlemen, we want to reinforce the model of primary care for children and children through pediatricians, and we want to do so through this new model of pediatrics that aims to ensure permanent and stable pediatric care in reference centers that will cover wider geographic areas. The criteria to be used for the grouping of paediatricians shall be, as a general criterion: they shall affect only areas where paediatricians are missing to cover the holiday period; in specific cases, they shall be grouped where there are less than 600 travel or single consultation cards or paediatricians. This new model consists of grouping in a health center of pediatricians available to provide coverage to patients in the neighbouring municipalities with minimum displacements for patients, with an average of fifteen minutes away. Most of these pediatric referral centers in primary health care centers will have a minimum of 2 pediatricians who guarantee care from Monday to Friday, even in situations that are surviving, when an optional person has a disease that morning and can't immediately make another kind of warning to plan this coverage. And they will form multidisciplinary teams, with a minimum, as I said, of 2 professionals specialized in pediatrics, with the presence for the first time of pediatrics specialist nursing with exclusive dedication to pediatrics; it is the first autonomous community, Galicia, in having specialized nursing. In the Budget Act of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2016 — the year of its publication Decree 81/2016—, the squares provided by the category of nurse specialist were 11, in 2017 we moved to an end of 30 and in this 2018 there are 46 squares equipped in this category. Since then, since the adoption of the decree, the staffing has increased to 35 levels of specialist nursing staff. And there are also specialist nursing recruitment lists to be able to meet these needs. Traveling pediatricians who provide ongoing assistance in different locations are implicated in these new stable teams from Monday to Friday. In case of difficulties in moving to new locations, patients may always choose to be treated at their usual health center by their family doctor. This new reorganization was agreed, as we said earlier, with the scientific societies of Galician pediatrics, that of primary care, that of neonatology and, of course, the general society of Galician Pediatrics. In short, we continue to work to solve problems and, above all, to improve our health system day by day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u245	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u246	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, I would like to clarify a few things for — I believe — to have the most rational debates. At the last plenary meeting you went up here saying that I insulted you or something like that. I promise I checked the video. I wouldn't even think about it and now no data that laughed at the data and came here to discuss it. I'd be grateful if you had given us data to be able to discuss what you gave us, but, in any case, since you laughed at the data, I told you to make it easier for him. You can access it, but I'll leave it here to the president. It's news today, it's not news from the Socialist Party's website or anywhere, it's official data from the Collective Medical Organization. It's in Spain's leading general information journal, where, by the way, it's analyzed today, the whole page, the problem of pediatrics, and where Galicia is, by the way, targeted as a paradigmatic problem. Why? Because it points out that one of the biggest problems, as we move it, is the problem of work, and it's a problem of work because we have the worst conditions practically all over Spain and that's why they go. And it's a problem where one of the subtitles -- it's not small -- says: Record of optionals with interest to exercise abroad. In total, from 2012 to June 2018, 20,497 persons have been required for certification. And add: Specialties include pediatricians, family doctors, obstetricians and gynecologists and ophthalmologists who are most interested in leaving the country. Collegial Medical Organization. Data offered by Spain's largest general information journal. You can laugh, we're worried. [[Applause]] They worry about us twice. One, because it's a problem; and, two, because, when someone gives him a problem, you laugh. I hope it was because you haven't seen the news, because if you don't have an explanation. Even so, that the newspaper has some information, that we'll transfer it to it, and you don't even know it, and if you laugh, it's worrying. But I'll leave it to you so you can read the paper, so you don't even have to buy it; I'll leave it to the president so you can move it. Please, yes. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela hand over a document to Mr. President.]] It's underlined, uh, so I don't have to read all the news. It is to facilitate the debate. [[Murmurs.]] Instead of dreaming, I could put on a sign, but neither... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] Counselor, don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u247	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u248	...he said about whether they intended to maintain the concentrations of pediatricians firmly only in some health centers. From the argument he gave me, they seem to be overly happy with the decision and therefore gives the feeling that they could keep it. I would be grateful if you could clarify whether you're actually going around the holidays to resume the previous situation or not, because there are people here today who are affected, because you're worried and you don't know in the Dubra Valley if you have to continue going to Vite, you don't know whether in Orders or in Carral or in Arzua you're going to continue hosting or going to other health centers, or hosting people from other municipalities in your health center. Because there's one thing that's the opposite of what you've described. You described situations where there were pediatricians who cared for few children in rural cases. By the way, this is dangerous: as few as they are, we take their services away from them, but if we take their services away from them, they're less. Then you have to know where to transform. That is the difference between managing, which is to give continuity to the problem, or transform, which is to reverse the problem, which is the question that we demand from politics: transform to reverse the problems and not manage the problem to give it continuity. But anyway, these parents and mothers are worried about it, because they want to know if they're going to have the opposite effect of what you say, which is what happens in some places; what happens is that they have some pediatricians, some pediatricians, 50 children one day or forty children one day, which is for care—you know perfectly—very hard to deal with. So, in order to solve the problem of few people in rural areas, we have taken the service away — it must be that we believe that people in rural areas are going to be kept a lot — and, in addition, we have saturated them in other health centres. But we don't talk about that problem. It gives the feeling that you, rather than solving the problem, have the will to cover it up, and the problems, even if you cover them, don't disappear. I used to do a lot of Rajoy and, at last, I don't think I've been very good at this country with those things. In Galicia, in fact, at the end we argue that there is a problem at the level of training and at the level of work. At the level of training, remember that you even hid your opinion about reducing the university squares or not. We demand it is even that we fight for more MIR squares in pediatrics, which is possible, because there are many doctors specializing in childhood. You argue often, with obvious reason, that they do this job of replacing pediatricians when there are no children. That means there are many professionals who are willing, willing, capable and able to do that work. That makes us think, from a natural reason, that there are many people who would do that specialty if they could have that opportunity. And besides, after training more professionals to have them, the next thing is that they're left, because if we're not able to pay them well, if we can't make them reconcile well, if we can't give them stability, if we end up calling them for days or weeks, or if we offer them two-month contracts a year, they won't stay; they can stay a year, two, but they won't stay when they have to make a life. So we put two things forward: first, we form more; and second, we stay with the professionals who exist. Is it easy? It's not easy. But the question is, what have we done so far? Because you've been in charge for nine years, and if you've had an MIR extension, four years after MIR training, five in some cases, you'd have more pediatricians, you'd have more chance to have pediatricians who were here, who were trained here, who are from here and who left. And we thought that was possible. Would we solve the whole problem? No, no, no, no. We're not going to ask him, because it's impossible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u249	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u250	...that the whole problem is solved, but what we don't want is that we manage a problem to give continuity, because, when continuity is given to a problem, it is consolidated and solidified, unless your will is to consolidate this problem, because it repeats a lot that we are a privileged country. See if it's going to be that you think we're a privileged country in health care and that's why, instead of consolidating something that's so good, you have to eliminate it, because that's why everyone has access to a health system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u251	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u252	...equal isn't so decent for you. But we think so. That's why we defend him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u253	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Close this interrogation, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u254	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, Mr. Torrado, I think they should put it in the communities where the Socialist Party governs, because it has many solutions here in Galicia. But look, I'll do what you do. I, instead of giving you photocopies of newspapers of the day -- by the way, with a lot of errors in the data given by Galicia, a lot, in the number of children talking and other things -- because look, I'm going to talk exactly about the data given by the Pediatrics Association, which I think are quite interesting, when what you do is analyze exactly how different autonomous communities care for children. And to say that a very important group of them is to provide coverage, mostly in primary care, in a very high percentage, with family doctors. And to tell you that Galicia is among precisely the autonomous communities that fewer family doctors use for care and information, assistance to children here. And I'm also going to give you, as you do, a color graph for the president, so you know. In yellow and red are the communities that least pediatricians have in primary care, who care for primary care with family doctors. [[Mr. Health Counsellor, Vázquez Almuínha, displays a document.]] They are, for example, Castilla-La Mancha, Balearic Islands, Extremadura, Andalusia, Murcia and Valencian Community. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. President. [[Murmurs.]] And to say that the measures we are taking are not the Torrado measures, they are the measures that the Galician Union considers most appropriate. And they're increasing retirement age, as we said earlier; that's an important one. Request for more accreditation of MIR squares, because unfortunately the 20 we have occupied them. But when you talk about the number of pediatricians, which, in your opinion, asking for accreditation doesn't mean they're leaving the country, but they're just asking for accreditation to have the title approved, nothing but for that. But, curiously, where they have to get out more is other communities, they shouldn't be from Galicia where they come from. But, as I say, curiously in Europe, very few countries have pediatricians in primary care. As I say, we try higher accreditation, higher retirement age, and then logically, we also want to take measures that have a much faster action. And one of them, but it's not because the administration decides it, but because the pediatricians themselves consider that this is also important and feasible, that it is this -- let's say -- concentration in nearby areas, but that it allows us to assume that we can continue to care for our children during vacation periods -- and answer it -- in nearby places and with full coverage and continue, even exceeding the number of hours on the normal distribution of the year. Because we managed to reduce the number of pediatricians, instead of being on the road for hours, those pediatricians are in a health center hoping that the children who need their assistance will be able to come. So we've increased hours by concentrating resources. And we have a publication also, it's original, it's not photocopy, it's original of the Vigo Lighthouse, last Sunday, where the president of the Galician Pediatric Society defends this model. [[Mr. Vázquez Almuínña shows a newspaper sheet.]] We have other pediatricians who say exactly the same thing. The president of the Primary Care Association in Pediatrics also defends this model, because it is a model that is not a tax model, it is a model that seeks to give the best coverage to Galician children in vacation periods, where zero unemployment coverage is impossible. As I say, I think everything is better, but this project, this new form of attention, a model that seeks to integrate the good quality of care conditions we've had in Galicia for many years, is to do it continuously for all children in Galicia in a place that's always close to home. I wanted to finish a little bit like I started, saying that, of course, we're going to continue to bet on pediatrics in primary care, boosting everything we can. We're also going to do a review of agendas, of everything that is the protocol of healthy children, which needs to logically evolve, and even increase with a protocol of the patient the chronic child, because also in recent years survival in severe pathologies is increasing, but it makes children have chronic pathologies that need attention. And with new protocols, as the protocol of children feels revolution and change, we're going to continue to evolve the Greek model, but of course, so that in other communities that still have much more serious problems they can even copy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u255	Thank you, Counselor. Interpellation by Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and three other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the environmental impact of the copper mining
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u256	Mr. Casal has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u257	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We'll bring back the issue of the Touro mine in this last plenary session. In a very clear way, we think that, after studying all the reports received from all administrations and also from the independent bodies that have made their opinion on the new project, today must begin the death report of this new project, because it does not practically comply with any of the precepts of the Galician Mines Act as we are now going to explain. We start from a current situation, we start from a month and a half ago report from Galician Waters, where it's certified that all the rivers and streams surrounding the old copper mine of Touro and Pino are contaminated. Confirm Galician Waters with analytics data at all points of control around mining. The results of the analyses requested by the ecological entity Adega last April 9 are authentically demolition. What surprises us is that the waters of Galicia and the Union did not take action before they knew the situation was over. The summary of the approach by Galician Waters is that the practice of all the water courses surrounding the former Touro-O Pino mining show contamination by heavy metals and high acidity, affecting the quality of surface water and buried in a minimum extent of sixty-five square kilometers around the mine, at least for the last ten years. A warning of what was and what could happen with a new megamine of wider scope. Data coming from Galician Waters on quality control stations shows high pollution. With regard to buried water, for example, in the water of Pucheras, environmental quality is very low by the presence of substances called "priority" as compared to the quality of water. We found cadmium, nickel, in addition to overcoming the annual measures of copper and zinc and high acidity. There are also quantities of other metals that exceed the values set for drinking water. Heavy-metal contamination of buried water extends over time to the present, as recent tests conducted between 2017 and 2018 continue to show high amounts of copper and zinc. On the other hand, right now, we have reports from various departments of the Galician Union about the new project of the Touro-O Pino mine. In all of them, many negative, very negative aspects are identified, or deficiencies in the documentation. Thus, the General Directorate for Agriculture and Food warns that reopening the copper mine can seriously affect the area's livestock if the land derived from that activity is contaminated, if it can cause a copper poisoning of the livestock. The Rural Middle Mountain Service hardly qualifies the promise of Copper San Rafael to re-establish the land. This department remembers that mining is not envisaged for the current urban level of the land. Since the General Directorate of Public Health, numerous deficiencies have been identified in the mining proposal. For example, the promoter does not identify the affected population or the uses of water, nor evaluates the possible contamination by radon gas. Furthermore, it notes that the rehabilitation and closure plan does not contain detailed information on the maintenance of systems for the control and treatment of acid drainage. The Natural Heritage Directorate writes one of the most critical reports. Thus, it points to inconsistencies in the measures to be taken once it completes the useful life of the mine, as well as that the promise to debug all waters does not correspond to reality, since filtrations are inevitable. Finally, Galician Waters reports that the documentation submitted is insufficient and inadequate to issue a proper assessment of all possible conditions on its basis. In view of these results of Galician Waters and all the rest of the reports, and no longer to mention the reports of the ecological organizations, the Galician Natural History Society, etc., we consider that the administrative departments of the Union make it clear and we give the fact that the Galician Union cannot be so really foolish to approve the project of the new exploitation of the Touro mine. That's why in the interpellation — I let it go because maybe after I don't have time to finish the entire argumentary — we want to make it clear to the adviser who explains to us how the Galician Board values all the reports already received. Does the Galician Council consider all these powerful reports sufficient to dilute a negative and unsanitable environmental assessment and therefore reject the project permanently? And thirdly, in the light of the reports and once the new mine project has been rejected, does the Galician Council intend to exempt from the current concessionaries of the holding the necessary actions for proper ecological and environmental regeneration of the affected areas? Do you think the Galician Board will collaborate in this re-eneration, as also explicitly mentions Galician Mines Act? And here now, as I still have time, we're going to make a reflection. I know what the counsellor will say: that they comply with the law, that En Marea is purely ideological against mining. This whole thing is fake. Obviously, the law must be fulfilled. But now I'm going to tell you a lot about the law. That's right, those you haven't changed in the last Galician Predation Act, which have been very present to eliminate aspects that really under the law guarantee the restoration of areas affected by mining. In Marea we are not against mining; we are against massive speculative megaminery, so that attempts to exploit an over-invasive lie as soon as possible — never better said that of "taking money and running" — which does not develop the complete productive cycle, but is merely extractive and predatory. And all of this can also be applied to other sectors such as forestry or energy, which, of course, can be very favourable if they develop in a proper way. And curiously, in these three sectors, it focuses on the legislative amendments to the Galician Predation Act that were approved last year. We can also develop a sustainable mining: the long-term approach, which alternates extractive processes with environmental recovery processes, and the development around business initiatives that close the cycle of extracted materials. Perhaps someone would argue that in this way these holdings would not be profitable at the moment. So then the administrative proposal had to be: if it's not profitable with criteria of sustainability right now, leave the resource as it is for the future, when it's profitable. The copper, of course, won't leave Touro. It is also essential for an economic audit of the project by the Board of Auditors or the public body that the administration determines. The previous company that did surveys in the area gave up on the grounds that it was not profitable, perhaps because it wasn't profitable from some ideas of sustainability. On the other hand, Atalaya Mining in its reports to the London Stock Exchange advances enormous profitability based on rapid and massive exploitation and with alleged copper markets that could change, with the risk of abandonment of exploitation at any moment, especially in view of the absence of real guarantees, as is currently marked by changes in the Mine Law established last year in the Galician Predation Act, which is the fundamental point — after the reply I will extend in this matter — that effectively eliminates the real guarantees, replacing the constant deposits and deposits in cash for a whole series of theoretical guarantees based on companies' own funds, above all a company with international capital funds, which today have the money here and tomorrow have it there, and a company that today has fully solvent own funds and within two years can have zero own funds and not guarantee at all the recovery of operations. And we can't get into a debate that suggests that economics, employment and the environment are incompatible. The future is that of the countries that care for the environment. And above all, a country like Galicia, which must base its entire future on the development of industries from the primary sector, also on mining, but also on sustainable mining, of mining that, as I say, alternate extraction periods with recovery periods, which take advantage of the materials that are extracted to develop the production process in the country. It can't be, it's obvious: the circular economy at the moment can't cover all the demand for copper, it's obvious. But those who need it are the Chinese. Well, if it is needed by the Chinese, who do the mines in China, except for cable factories, electric transformers factories, let all the industry that will be needed for the energy transition be done in Touro and O Pino as well. If all you're going to do is pull out the copper and send it to China so that the Chinese will get the added value, they'll take the mine there too. This is the philosophy of En Marea. In fact, it's ideological philosophy, but a future ideological philosophy, a future philosophy, not that a company is here for seven years, develops 200, 300 or at least 400 jobs, and within seven years nothing is left, we can't recover the agribusiness, we can't recover industries derived from the real primary sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u258	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u259	...and that in the end the final consequence, as happened to the previous copper operation in the Touro mine, ends with the depopulation of the area. Because this doesn't fix population, it fixes population in a relative way. Many people will come from outside, but in a purely timely way, and within seven years the future of the generations of the area and the districts of Touro and O Pino...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u260	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u261	...not to mention, of course, that the impacts on the Ulla River and the Arousa River would be definitive.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u262	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u263	Then I'll continue with the argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u264	Thank you. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, we continue with this monologue that you intend to do in Marea in this parliament. Now it turns out you're questioning me and, in addition, you already say in your inquiry what I'm going to answer. I'll tell you that this is the same thing as other regimes. In this parliament I will logically welcome my right to reply. [[Applause]] And I'm sorry, Mr. Casal, that you in that monologue continue with the fear of disregarding laws, that you continue with the fear of disrespecting institutions and, above all, confusing compliance with ideology. It has nothing to do with; you may have an ideology, but you can also comply with the law. And it seems that In Marea in that sense continues to remain in confusion. A demagogy, a manipulation that I think is inappropriate for a political group, but I'm sure time will put everyone in place. And time, Mr. Casal, will again and again demonstrate that the Galician Union is always in general interest and always in the interests of the Greeks; also in this project, as we have done in other projects in the mining sector. The Germans know, Mr Casal, the difference of En Marea, that we are a predictable and reliable government, that we defend the general interests and that we act at all times with responsibility, and in the mining sector in particular, demanding all environmental, urban and technical guarantees to each project, always within the regulations. A regulation that you don't like to remember, but it's your law, the 2008 Mining Law, which you passed and promoted. And it turns out that this project, Mr. Casal — I say because you seem to have doubts — is being dealt with by that law, it's not being dealt with by the law of business implementation, no, no, no; it's being dealt with by the law of the year 2008 that you approved. In any case, Mr. Casal, I reiterate again in this chamber that the processing of the Touro mine is an obligation, and we will respect that obligation of the administration. And we're going to comply with each and every step that marks the Mining Law; they like it or they don't like it, either according to their ideology or not. It is the law, and this government will respect it. And the project — I also transfer it with all constancy — will not be approved if there are elements that do so incompatible with that regulation. Mr. Casal, transparency and rigour; so we're working on the Touro mine project. With transparency because both water analysis and all the reports that are being processed are being facilitated by this administration, and you come here and submit yourself to those reports. And all the documentation of the records relating to both the exploitation and the reports of the past are at the disposal of all those who want to consult them. But the most important thing in conjunction with transparency is the rigor, the rigor of all the departments of the Galician Union as this project is being processed. All departments have indeed made observations and demands. You don't seem to know the procedure — I'm sorry — or just read some of the procedure you're interested in. But you should know that the law is guaranteed. What's the matter is that you're part of the violation of the law, but you're not. If you want to comply with the law, you know that the law is guaranteed. And he knows that in all the reports that you have reflected in his intervention, most of the reports are marked parameters that need more detail or changes, that he has moved it to the different departments and that the company should take care if he wants to continue the processing. And so marks the procedure. And so it will be then — when the company responds to these requirements — when organisms can issue a final report for the environmental impact declaration. Therefore, Mr. Casal, the Galician Board will speak on the project when the processing is over. And it will, as always, be motivated and based on professional and technical assessments. This is not a matter of opinion, Mr. Casal. What I'm telling you is that as this project is being presented is not viable; that's also what I can tell you. And, therefore, we will continue to study and analyse all reports. But let's talk about the present, let's talk about facts, because you're talking about Galician Waters here. And indeed, Galician Waters and the Galician Board are doing their work and keeping an active watch over all the river channels surrounding the former mine. And that watch — which is an active watch — confirms that the contamination detected in the analyses is strictly tied to the streams around the exploitation; you know, and you don't say it, because it comes here doing partial analyses. You know that Galician waters don't appreciate pollution in the eye derived from the ancient exploitation, and you hide that information; you cover it, Mr. Casal. And he also knows that we continue to pursue any clues or denunciations; he knows that we have opened two file sanctions for vegetables in the final phase of his processing, and he also hides it in his intervention. And he also knows that Environmental Quality has opened another file derived from the elaboration of technosols, which also hides that information. But I regret, ultimately, that you face these facts, concrete facts, with concrete analyses and data, with concrete management actions to ensure respect for the environment, we find ourselves continuously and permanently with the manipulation that In Marea wants to bring to this chamber. I'm sorry because the political groups are not to manipulate, they're to comply with the law, to respect the procedures, and therefore they're not to make valuations. I'm sorry that you don't come here to reflect the reports; come here to bring the ratings or interpretations, I don't know very well whether of Adega or En Marea. That's not clear; you'll probably consult again in the reply. But you know that Galician waters are moving the analysts objectively. All your comments to this camera are interpretations either of you or of Adega, I don't care, not of Galician waters. It should ultimately be at least objective and therefore not obvious that you yourself when they ruled did nothing other than what this government is doing. Mr. Casal, they did nothing different, nothing! So I'm surprised that now you want to highlight, for example, the project approved unanimously by all members of the Galician Environment Council, which is the restoration process that is being carried out in the Touro mine. Surprising! Unknownness and manipulation, a very bad combination when you want to talk about economics, if you want to talk about mining and if you want to talk about guaranteeing it to citizens and companies. In any case — and I conclude — this government will continue to respect all the sensibilities, all of them, both those who express their opposition to the mine and, Mr. Casal, those who show themselves in favour of the mine. Because it seems like you have one reality, and you know that's not the case. We're going to continue the study of the project, we're going to ensure the processing. And logically, there is no decision made, Mr. Casal, none. I understand your words is that you don't want the Government to make logical decisions without having the objective data. And that decision, what if I can assure all citizens, all the neighbors of Touro and Pino, is that it will be taken in accordance with all the guarantees offered by the legislation, and that we will defend the general interest of the Greeks and the Greeks. Mr. Casal, stop messing around and compromise yourself with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u266	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u267	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Counsellor, in fact, do you see how I did? I was right; in the final conclusion, it made it clear: all we have to do is comply with the law. Actually, don't say I'm manipulating, it's obvious that I'm going to say that, that's what they always say. So I'm going to read to you the objectives of the law -- we're going to read the objectives of the law -- "The content and vigil of mine rights and their compatibility with other uses or uses, and can limit or condition the exercise of priority rights for environmental, urban or other reasons of their competence." Obviously, there may be confrontation and collision between other "environmental reasons" and "others of their competition", such as, for example, agricultural and other issues, for example, because the law did not mark it. because it seemed as if no mine could be affected by maritime-fishing areas, and that is why the agricultural councillor made an excuse not to issue reports from the Fisheries Council. Well, we asked them to issue it. Because, obviously, when the law, that law that we don't vote for. But that law that I'm now going to read to you what the law says and you'll tell me if these kinds of projects meet the fundamental objectives of the law. Well, first, we asked the Fisheries Council to report, because if the law did not explicitly put it, it was because it was thought that the mines were in inland areas that would not affect marine-fishing areas. We shall read Article 12 of the Act, Guidelines for the granting of operating authorisations. I'm going to read some of them: "The establishment of the foundations of the development of a sustainable mining," -- you're doing the assessment of whether this whole project seems to you to do so -- "The harmonization of extractive activity with the rest of the land uses within the framework of territorial, agricultural and environmental management," "The orderly and sustainable use of mine resources in a manner consistent with the protection of the natural environment and cultural heritage", "The rationalization of the use of natural resources and waste through the implementation of the available technical improvements and their valuation", "The search for a greater link of mining to the improvement of the economy of the areas in which these exploits are located and the promotion of the creation of employment in activities derived from mining", "Support for the implementation of industries that allow the closure of all cycles of mining materials extracted from Galicia" and, lastly, "The temporal character of mining in relation to land management and land uses", which is guaranteed to other types of use than subsequent exploitation. Besides, you say that all of this will be based on the previous law. I wish the company Atalaya Mining had made it clear that... yes, I wish, I wish! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because we'll see, we'll see. That's why we want to leave him here so he can count on the Journal of Sessions. Because the guarantee that you have changed in the Predation Act, the guarantee will have to be constituted by any of the following forms, the guarantee for possible effects after exploitation: "Metalic deposits or public bonds, constituted in the Deposit Box of the Autonomous Community of Galicia" or "Solidary and unconditional downstream medium provided by some of the banks, savings banks, credit cooperatives or credit institutions authorized to operate in Spain". Indeed, Counsellor, I read practically all the information that Atalaya Mining presented in the London Stock Exchange, and nowhere does he say he will have to deposit, in cash or in a solidarity and unconditional avalanche, an amount that I don't know what it will be, but if in Corcoesto's mine it was a downstream of around EUR 1 billion, here perhaps it could go for those values or at least a little less, it could be; for it was perhaps a bit less dangerous to exploit. But you can't see anywhere, within your financial allocation, that Atalaya Mining says he's going to deposit this avalanche or this amount of cash, which marks it by law. In fact, in the new law that you approved last year, the cash deposit of public issuance certificates or the solidarity endorsement already disappears. There is now only one financial or equivalent guarantee to ensure that funds are readily available at any time by the competent authority for the rehabilitation of the land concerned. How will the Galician Union guarantee that within seven years, a company that leaves, has a social home in another country and is not — probably at that time no longer concerned by Spanish legislation — will have enough own funds to recover the situation that it is going to leave? And finally — let me, Mr. President, for a few minutes — I also want to address the current workers... — one minute —. The greatest danger for the people who are working there now is the new exploitation. All the activities that are being carried out there at this time had to be promoted by the Galician Union, precisely so that what has not been done in thirty years would be done from now on. That the restoration and recycling work that takes place there is becoming very important, precisely to compensate for the entire disaster zone that was done during the years of exploitation and in the next 30 years. That's what the Galician Union has to do. Because just as the Galician Union has not been able to guarantee the recovery of the area in all the years since the previous exploitation, it could now be created — indeed indeed and in a sustainable and prolonged way in time —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u268	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u269	... hundreds of jobs with absolute guarantee. The greatest risk to the jobs currently available in the Touro-O Pino mine area is precisely the new exploitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u270	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Close the gap, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, you come to these debates with the obsession - you know what you mean - that I will answer certain things, and when I tell you something else, it goes unnoticed, which is surprising. That's how hard it is to make debates, it seems more like a monologue. I repeat what I told you, that this is the first time I say it: this project, as it is, is not viable. Now, do you have anything you want? What do you want, from your group? You mean we don't go through the project? You mean we don't comply with the law and we don't be guaranteed with citizens and businesses? Mr. Casal, with the companies. You mean that? He told me you didn't approve of that law. I don't know the relational scope within En Marea. True, it is true that this law was passed by the BNG and the Socialist Party of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] It's true. And, therefore, that law has......that law has that origin. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I can transfer what the Industry Counsellor said in this House at that time, belonging to the Nationalist Block of Wales. "The law—cito—is the answer needed to update the sector of the Galician mining, which sets a stable framework—Mr. Casal—, legal security and rules for administrations, employers and workers." It's his law, which is ours too. Therefore, the Government's obligation is to apply it and the opposition's obligation to ensure that the law is enforced. And you come to this House telling me not to apply it, which, Your Honor, is surprising. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You know perfectly well that the Mining Law that you have endowed and approved compels us to give a motivated answer, you know it says it. A reasoned response after having complied with the entire administrative procedure. And this government and this administration will give that motivated response. And you know that the procedure that marks the law requires you to give time to the company to address the deficiencies that the project may have. We're doing the law. What do you want? What prevaric this government? No, Mr. Casal, we're going to comply with the law. But he said he's coming to this House to mess up, because, of course, you want to mix the 2008 Mining Act with the 2017 Business Implementation Act. I repeat, because I told you in the first intervention and you insist on the second, this law is being dealt with by the Mining Act of 2008, don't come here to confuse. When I want to have a debate on the Business Implementation Act, perfect. And I'll move it like that law is allowing Galicia to develop and reactivate the wind sector. That law is allowing a company like Benteller to invest in Galicia and not go to Portugal. That's the reality of the Business Implementation Act that you deny, because you simply deny industry in Galicia, deny industrial employment in Galicia and say no to the productive sectors. They don't tell the mining industry and they don't tell important projects like the marine wind sector, Rozas, Ence or Elnosa. They don't just say opportunities for the Greeks. There you are, there you are! We will continue to work for the industrial sector, we will continue to work for mining and we will continue to work for a mining such as its law, which is our law: a modern, safe and sustainable mining. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u272	Thank you, Counselor. La Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other members of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to sexual violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u273	To formulate the inquiry you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u274	Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Mr. Rueda. I'd like to start this debate by reading to your lordships a few lines that I've read recently and that have impacted me, and that since the Nationalist Block, Galicia, we think that they perfectly illustrate the dimension of the problem that we have to face with macho violence and sexual violence. American journalist Joanna Connors was raped thirty years later, and two decades later she started an investigation and told her own story, as a way to overcome it, in the book I will find you. "I'll find you." And in it the author recalls the following, she says, "That's my violation. I knew he was coming. Every woman knows it, anticipates it, fears it, though she doesn't think it will happen to her, and now she's here. She touched me." Connors reflects in these lines the magnitude of the problem we are facing, the magnitude of what it means for all women, for whom we are half the world, that Damocles sword of sexual violence. In these lines there is a universal feeling, that fear that any one of us, that any woman, could experience at any time in her life by merely being made to be, and gives an idea of the depth of what we are facing. Because this is a war, a relentless war against the deep roots of the patriarchate, and it is the responsibility of all of us and the responsibility of the public authorities to put us on the side of their eradication, without conformisms and updating their response. And it gives us the impression, Mr. Rueda, that your government is a bit installed in conformism and that it is not doing enough. We want to remember today that violence against women is the most hidden crime in the world, and this is something that the UN itself says, which has already recognized it in the 1980s thanks to women's movements. However, this formal recognition has not been the magic vein for its extermination nor has it been to overcome its invisibility. But there's something moving. Over the past year and a half, we think that there have been events that have helped to mark one before and after, and in this Parliament we can't stay away from the changes that have taken place in society either. We all remember recent, very mediatic facts, in which even the question of whether or not it was violence was when the subject is a woman, and whether the act or attempt of rape was even macho violence or not. The most striking case we all have in mind was that of Manada. We thought we had nothing left to see. Although rape was proven in groups, we saw the victim being questioned. We've seen that controversial sentence waiting for the final. And even a few weeks ago, the five rapists were released. We already thought -- I said -- we had nothing left to see, but the last thing is that today we have to see this headline during the plenary session. "Defense raises the suspension of Manada's military and becomes pending assignment of destination." The truth is, we are shocked to see this issue. And the first question I'm going to move you is that we'd like you to go to the Ministry of Defence as a government to ensure that you actually seem to have confirmed that you're not going to have a destination, but to ensure that you're not coming to our country. Facts like this have impacted our society and we think they marked -- I insist -- one before and one after, and yet several questions are highlighted. First of all, that much remains to be done to recognize sexual violence as a form of macho violence and to treat it that way. There is also the existence of an androcentric justice and serious sexist affairs, as they have qualified in a statement by the Welshwoman Delilah D Canvas, a magistrate, and two more in a letter addressed to rape victims recently. But there is also a question we want to insist on: that there are reasons for optimism. Because it was demonstrated by the historic mobilizations in response to this situation, and also last March 8th, that we have a critical and demanding society, that it didn't mind coming out on the street. And that's why today, Mr. Rueda, this interpellation, because we think that the 2018 Galicia demands and also deserves to open a deep debate on sexual violence and how we have to fight them. And, in that sense, we think that we must develop with greater ambition the Law of macho violence, so that these, in fact, are also at the heart of our actions. There's a lot of things we're concerned about. I just said one of them is the judicial issue. Without a doubt, we would have to have a judicial system with a higher gender perspective, but today we want to insist on the other aspects, because, once again, for us, the criminal route cannot be the only one, the criminal route does not re-education society, that is the last link in the chain. That's why today we want to insist on other areas, in areas where you, besides, like the German Government, have a direct competition, but it seems that, even though you have that direct competition, Mr. Rueda, you miss a road map. I want to remember that we start from a question that for some areas is negative, that state legislation is in this respect less than the Greek legislation, something that, although it is a cause of pride for all of us, it is true that we can move forward in some areas. In that sense, this adopted State covenant a year ago theoretically introduced possible advances to many of these areas, but a year later we see as everything that contemplated sexual violence, cost or cost money, is wet paper. That is why we also want to ask you today, Mr Rueda, that there is a change of government and that there is a change of speech—there is a change of government in the state, there is a change of speech in the Government of the People's Party of Galicia—that in this sense they are more demanding, and that in that commission they have theoretically created for the pursuit of the state pact, they are demanding, because unfortunately there are aspects that depend on the central government, and that has been missed. Thinking about our country, the truth is that one decade ago Galicia already recognized sexual violence as a machist, but we kept asking ourselves if we were able to move this to society, if we should be satisfied and satisfied and if you are satisfied with the development of the law in this area, because we think there are indications to not be, and I will quote some of the areas of improvement that we want to move to. First of all, we believe that there is a lack of information and research to recognize the real impact of sexual violence and to act effectively against it. To display a button. Ten years after the implementation of this law began, even today its annual reports do not include aspects related to sexual violence. A short time ago in this chamber — I imagine you will be aware — the People's Party has pushed an agreement that the posteriori would have to integrate this perspective, but the truth is, by reviewing the Journal of Sessions and the Committee Agreements, three months later, many of those issues you were launching that have not yet begun to implement and carry out. There's a question I want to move you today. You were talking about conducting a macro-enquisition again, and this time you were looking at the issue of sexual violence. We'd like to know what state this is in. They also agreed to create a group within the Galego Observatory of Gender Violence, and the same issue. Where are we? Because we're quite used to you reaching agreements, even those unilaterally driven by you, and those that remain unfulfilled. And the truth is that in this way, despite the advances of our law, despite these ten long years of vigilance, the little we know today about sexual violence is through the allegations of the Ministry of the Interior registered in its criminality balance, and the picture that leaves us is worrying, not only because the last full year, 2017, has 44 complaints of rapes with penetration, 44 complaints!, and that, of course, does not mean that it's all there was, and also 415 sexual crimes. That gives us a balance that about every week there's a rape and that about every day there's more than one sexual assault, so we think it's time to step on the accelerator in this matter. Above all, they worry about something that I don't know if you've evaluated, Mr. Rueda. There is a certain stagnation in complaints about sexual violence, particularly about sexual violence with penetration. And we think that's not because they don't exist -- I wish it was! -- but something's failing. We see the contrast as to macho violence in general. As for allegations of ill-treatment, there is an increase, that we always interpret it as it is functioning relatively the system and therefore there are more complaints, and we think that something must be failing in the specific case of sexual violence so that it does not follow the same path, and we must correct this lack of information beyond the quantitative, also in the qualitative, and we would like to know what they will do in that sense. We would also like your evaluation of protocols, whether they're working or not. The second time I'll refer more specifically to this. We also wondered if they were planning on correcting anything in the face of awareness campaigns. For us there are two aspects where the Galician Union should work and it's not doing it. One of them is consent, because consent is the result of all sexual violence. And second, also contribute to breaking the topics; topics like, for example, that are not socially assumed that more than 80% of sexual assaults are by a man known: by relatives, couples or acquaintances. We have that image installed and learned from the night raider, but it's not the only one that threatens us. For us, in that sense, there are two areas that should be priorities: education and leisure, and we find the effort being made in this direction insufficient. And I'm setting an example. That's what you've announced the bomb and plate of the campaigns against sexual aggression in the festivals to us seemed to us about the paper a wonderful idea, but the contrast we've had in these two months in which there's already been some, the reality is that it gives us the impression that you're staying in a very small campaign and that even visually...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u275	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u276	...don't reach the public that there may be in these spheres. Then I'll refer to more questions. In conclusion, Mr. Rueda, we think it's time to step on the accelerator, focus more incisively on sexual violence and that you should also take advantage of the moment of social sensitivity that we're experiencing. If they want to get out of this conformism and get our share of proposals, they'll have us there. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u277	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Response by the Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs Presas, first of all, I have to say that at least in the interventions of your group in general on this subject the usual point has been — and so was this first intervention — of constructive proposals. I disagree with conformism. I understand the interpellation in the use of stepping the accelerator. You always have to step on the accelerator, but what you said at the end, if you're open to proposals, that's exactly what we want. You don't think we're installed or conformed, no less! You ask yourself several questions and I'll try to answer to everyone as long as I have. They're varied, some broad content, but it uses several times if you think we're responding to the problem, or the situation you're talking about, enough. Obviously, it will never be enough, no one has a magic vein, nor do I think any government. I wish it was like that! If any government had given exactly the formulae and the measures to permanently shorten sexual assault and violence, we would probably all imitate them. This is not so, unfortunately, and I don't think that any government, whatever political sign it is, does not take this subject very seriously and does everything possible. So, responding in general to the philosophy of his interpellation, do we do enough? We try to do everything we think we can do. Obviously, it won't be enough, unfortunately, but, of course, there's no kind of relaxation. I agree that we are making a great deal of progress, and I also agree that it is good, and even very healthy and very beneficial for us as a government that the political groups are trying to see that much more needs to be done, that we have to make proposals. So we agree on the philosophical approach. Indeed, the Law of 2007 gives the basis, allows us to act out that any sexual assault on a woman is a masquerading assault, a aggression of masquerading violence, and from there I think there may be many formulas of reaction. By entering the content, you ask a lot of questions and ask for specific data. Trying to follow the script of your inquiry, to tell you that I also agree that in order to perform actions effectively it is necessary to have information and, therefore, also to guide the action so that that information is really useful. So, in relation to the data on sexual violence, tell you that the first thing we have to deal with logically is the criminality data coming from the Ministry of the Interior because of the allegations. We know perfectly well that complaints are often at the tip of the iceberg nothing more, but it is also true that the complaints are increasing, so that means that there are no more cases, but that more women dare to report, and therefore find fewer obstacles than they once encountered so that many times this unacceptable situation is made that there are women who ultimately do not make the complaint because they believe that they will not make up for everything that is going to happen to them from that moment on in the case of their aggressor's complaint. So we know that in the first quarter of 2018 there were 112 such crimes registered in Galicia, 15.5% more. Of course, it's an inescapable figure, but I think it's good that the allegations come up because — I insist — we know perfectly well that this simply says that women dare to report more, and this itself is a good data, that the reported aggressions come up. Also, of course, not only this data, which is objective data, but we also need to continue to collect data coming from the CIM network. We have 81 centers in Galicia that are often the first floor, the first place where many women will report their case, make their case manifest, and therefore ask for help, from there are many data taken and a lot of statistics can be done. And also, of course, the data that we derive from the close collaboration we have in the wake of macho aggressions with the Official College of Galician Psychology, which, as you know, are those that collaborate with us in many of the situations that come from the male violence. From there we also extracted data, and that data is used for actions. Also last February, the Observatory against Domestic and Gender Violence went to the National Judicial Statistical Commission for something very simple, but very necessary, that was not being done, that information should be collected to enable statistical data to be made and therefore to draw conclusions and from that, to take action on all forms of violence against women. A lot of data is collected in the National Judicial Statistical Commission on many situations that are known in the courts, but not being done on these specific cases of sexual violence, and we believe that it is very necessary and that a very important source of information is being wasted. In fact, I also know the agreement reached on this chamber last April, so all this data will be incorporated into the next annual reports on gender violence. This about data knowledge so you can take actions. Specific measures. You ask for a lot of questions. I'm going to try -- I insist -- with the time limit I have, to give an answer, if I can, to all of them. He asked about awareness-raising and training measures. You say you don't have the incidence. That's what I meant. When it's not enough, there are many forms of oriental, but I think we're trying to make awareness-raising measures as effective as possible and reach the population sector that is most interested in them. In general, everyone, because this is a general problem, but we all agree that there are collectives to be particularly involved in awareness-raising campaigns on male violence. To whom? Well, without a doubt, to younger people, to adolescents, where they are increasingly worrying if they are detecting incipient situations, and sometimes very serious and very worrying, as I said, of macho violence. And, of course, through social networks, which are the usual channel of communication for young people, the whole problem of sexting and of many ways of sexual harassment through social networks, is something we have to pay special attention to. We've already developed two campaigns, two years ago and last year, prevention of sexual violence through sexting, and also Fegamp. And this must also be done through the municipalities, and that the municipalities spread, which are the administrations closest to the population. To do workshops and to take place in all the municipalities, especially in rural areas, because it seems that sometimes we focus very much on cities, and in rural areas there are also situations where there are sexual assaults and macho violence. You know we're doing them in collaboration with friendly screens. 85 municipalities and nearly 6,500 children participated. We also have actions directed to university youth. In November last year, we developed in the three universities and on the seven campuses of the day of prevention and sensitization of sexual violence in youth, and, of course, we have to take the final step to introduce in the educational curriculum everything that has to do with equal formation, and therefore prevention of future violence against young people as normal, as well as other educational subjects that are given and that are perfectly assimilated. This has to be done and we have to start as soon as possible, and of course there's a lot to go about, but the road we've been going along, seeing the situation of three, four or five years ago, which we probably wouldn't, sure we should have started a long time ago, I think the way we've been going is remarkable. Actions directed to women with disabilities. Another collective also that we have to pay special attention, which are often particularly sensitive victims of masculine violence. We carry out a program in collaboration with Cogami, Acquire and collectives devoted to the care of people with disabilities. We support the training of women with disabilities, their families and teachers in the detection and identification of situations against the sexual freedom and dignity of women with disabilities. And we also carry out, when necessary, personalized accompaniment to the people who lived these situations. Also actions directed to professionals and professionals through collaboration with their schools. We have initiated a pioneering action against sexual harassment in the workplaces with the Galaga Association of Socio-Working Auditors and the Galician Professional Union. This is a problem that is there, that no one can know, we are all aware, and therefore the 70,000 professionals who are in the professional union can help us perfectly raise awareness, and even detect and help denounce situations of sexual harassment that occur in the workplace. I insist that we are the first autonomous community to take such measures. Also directed actions — you referred to them already — to attending major events and festivals. We started this year. Every proposal that is made to improve and to reach more people, and above all new people, that comes to the great musical events that are held — especially in the summer, but not only in the summer — in Galicia will be welcome. I think it's a good idea to have started. We should probably have started before, but the Aggression-Off Campaign, I say no to sexual violence, started this year. It will be developed in all major concerts, in all major musical events in Galicia. And, I mean, whatever you or anyone thinks can contribute to this campaign being more effective, welcome, without any doubt. We also organize talks on sexual violence prior to the celebration of these festivals, but above all, we have to focus on what happens during the celebration of these festivals. That is what we fully agree with. I also want to mention one thing. The content of these campaigns focuses on aggressors. You were asking him one of the questions of his initiative. I believe that these are examples of the actions of [] campaign against sexual harassment, of which I have just spoken. Indeed, to make it clear that the person responsible for sexual assault will always be the aggressor, without any doubt. So this has to encourage any woman who suffers from sexual assault to report, because she's always going to be the victim. Turning to other questions — I'm telling you that I'm very limited in time and then I have the reply — you were talking about other specific measures. Well, we continue to maintain aid for victims of sexual assault, benefits and economic aid. We continue to be the pioneering community and almost unique throughout the Spanish state: foster homes, work placement programs... I think that all this is a measure, above all, not to avoid sexual assaults, but to encourage women suffering from them to know that they have resources to, once the complaint has been made, be able to continue with their lives or at least have assistance from the Administration. I already say that I have other measures that I would like to have to do with what I have given myself in the second intervention. To highlight, in my remaining time, that in December 2017 we began a collaboration with the Children's Foundation of the Crown to do something that until now was also being forgotten: that the victims of sexual assault are not only women, but their sons and daughters, who accompany them when they decide to denounce, when they decide to get rid of their aggressor. And, therefore, our duty is also to protect these sons and daughters...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u279	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u280	...who are also victims of these assaults.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u281	Thank you. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u282	All right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u283	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u284	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Rueda. I also appreciate your change of tone. I confess to him that we believe that we are more or less in the same tone as ever, but lately — especially when I spoke not so much about the Government and its parliamentary group — it seemed that they were giving us a little bit of a broom every time we had a subject of equality. And we agree that that shouldn't be the general level, although often, with the logic of the debate, we can all and all make our tone worse. Well, you talked about a lot of issues -- most of which we've known before -- but it gave the impression that I didn't pretend to specify those issues addressed to sexual violence, and we want to insist on that idea. We think that we are at a time, both by the collective maturation of these ten years of law and by social maturation that have assumed important events during this last year, in which we have to focus specifically on understanding sexual violence and its fight, as a form of domination of women, which has been historically invisibility and that historically it costs to internalize both institutional and social. In that sense — to move forward in some of the issues in which I was not allowed time in the first round to go into detail — we asked our question — and I would like to stress this — on the question of protocols. It is true that Galicia, not too many months ago, has launched an institutional collaboration protocol; in fact, it has appeared to the Secretary-General of Equality in this Parliament and we have talked about it. But there are two important issues that concern us about the protocols: one group, the one referring to areas that do not belong exclusively to the Greek community, such as the forces of the state and the judiciary. So we would like you, as representatives of our country in those areas of coordination, to insist on the specificity of sexual violence, precisely because the Spanish State has not taken the steps that Galicia has taken, and because done just as I did this last week reminded the thread of the trial of the rapist of Lugo, that when there was this wave of rape, that social concern, the police council had been the woman's stay at home. So, we would really like you to be incisive in those areas of work in that sense. And, on the other hand, as far as the protocols are concerned, we have often thought of them, consciously or unconsciously, more for situations of abuse — so I say — continued in the field of couple, ex-partner and so on. And we're worried that some of them may not work or have specifically addressed the issue of sexual violence. So we would also like to invite you, as part of these interinstitutional protocol evaluation meetings, to say that you have, because you can also evaluate this issue, because we are concerned that the attention to victims of sexual violence is not sufficiently developed. You were also talking about the complaints data and that slight increase that we have if we compare the first quarter of this year to the first quarter of the previous year. But to me I was surprised that, for example, the number of complaints for rape with penetration was — he spoke of memory — I think that thirteen and thirteen, that is, the same number; I don't remember the number right now, but it was the same exact number. To us that fact is surprising, that there is no progress. It is true that we are taking a quarter that may not be significant at all, but we are concerned that, if there is no progress to the same extent as there is, yes, in allegations of continued ill-treatment, for example, something is missing from the attention protocol. For example, you mentioned CIM. We, as for the CIS and 016, think there should be specific campaigns to insist that these instruments are also for sexual violence, that any woman, any person who has a sexual assault can also resort to them. Because we believe that both socially, in the case of complaints that may be made by third parties, as internalized in the potential victims themselves, we have not socially internalized that these resources are also available in the field of sexual violence. As for social awareness and so on, we think that much remains to be done to give that change of course needed in the philosophies of campaigns, and that, in general, all institutional campaigns — including those of the Galician Union — end up putting most of the responsibility to get out of the victim's situation and avoid being victimized by women themselves. It is true that by setting as an example this question of festivals, although — I say — we invite them to at least try to occupy more physical space, because in festivals that move fifty-six hundred thousand people the truth is that it costs them to find these campaigns. I tell him because I took the trouble of looking at them and seeing if they seemed enough or not. In those texts that appear there are some as well oriented to the aggressors, but we think we need to take a more turn in that direction. You complained about time, but the truth is, I don't have much more. We with these issues will debate within a few months a motion derived from this interpellation and will try to bring more questions to a positive conclusion. But we wanted to emphasize, above all, those two ideas: we must review those resources of which we have been given to see if we are ensuring that sexual violence is sufficiently contemplated and then we must move forward in what socially it is transmitted. Because I don't think it would surprise any...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u285	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u286	...—and finally, Mr President—a Member or Member who has been a lot of people who, in cases like Manada's, had to explain that, in fact, in our country if it was recognized as a masquerading violence, although many people thought it would not. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u287	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Close this interlocution, Vice-President and Chairlor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u288	Thank you very much, President. Well, Mrs. Presas, following that tone and trying to complete what was left of the measures you were asking, I also wanted to make a special impact on this second intervention on the subject of the action protocols, because I think they are very important, among other things, because they are the ones that make it easier — I agree that the number of complaints is not normal to keep or not rise to an important amount, because we know that it is a small percentage of the assaults that occur — the complaints of women who have suffered sexual assault. And therefore everything that serves to convince them that they don't, from the moment they decide to report, find a maze in which they often blame themselves, I think it's good. And, therefore, as the complaints must be made before the administrations, or the detections of situations that can lead to the intuition that sexual assault has occurred from the administrations, I think that it involves that protocol of action, and combined action, because it's often a lot of administrations or at least a lot of different sectors of the same administration that can act here, I think that's important. From there comes that protocol and from there comes the need to improve it, to put it into operation — which is already there — and to improve it, which certainly has a lot to improve. I think that any health care officer knows exactly what he has to do to detect a sexual assault, even if the woman does not make the complaint, or, if the woman does the complaint, know what he has to do to make things as easy as possible within the delicate and sensitive situation as it is, this is necessary. So anyone who's in a hospital or health center, or in any medical facility, has to know exactly what to do and how to do it quickly, -- I insist -- by making things easier and not in any case hindering them. So that common protocol that's already in operation, I think that's very important. That's within the health area. Then, within the legal area, the Immelga, the forensics also have to, of course -- not to say -- know what they have to do -- that I think they do know -- but rather know how they have to do it, and know that these have to be absolutely priority issues within the lot of work that we are aware of, within many sensitive issues and situations that arise. Everything that has to do with sexual assaults demands and makes it necessary to have a special diligence and a special speed in doing all this work, from the first intervention of the doctor to the entire process that has been opened in the judicial field since the forensics made their first evaluation. And, of course, in the social area too, which is involved in this protocol. Many times women who suffer from male violence, who may have suffered sexual assault and who have not reported it, do give access to social services in demand of other kinds of benefits. And, therefore, social services professionals have to have the necessary preparation and also the instructions needed to know what they have to do when they have well-founded suspicions or find out that, from the data provided by the woman who goes to the services, by the things that may be watching and deducting, it is possible that they are producing or that sexual assault has occurred. And, therefore, they cannot, of course, look elsewhere, have to act and be proactive from there that the corresponding process begins to produce a complaint and, of course, to help in everything that is needed for these women. This protocol consists of this, which is not easy, which has not been done for a long time or done in most administrations and other autonomous communities. And so our obligation is that it works and that it works as soon as possible. And in the time that I'm left, I also have an impact -- because I think it's very important, you did it too -- on the need for, once we agree that masquerade violence and sexual aggression have to be coincidentally, to do it again, because it's worrying about the increase in situations in the earliest ages, in the younger people, in everything prevention and in everything that is reaction to new people in the face of sexual assaults and the mastic violence that occurs. You know that we're about to put into operation an app available to install on any mobile phone -- there's already gender-based violence, but there's no sexual assault -- that makes it easier for anyone, for any woman, who immediately has a list of resources that you can come to when you see in this situation and, above all, that they can react quickly and can with emergency buttons immediately call for help and who's taking that call knows that that call is happening because there's a sexual assault going on. That'll be in effect in a short time and we think it's a good help. I'm not going to repeat the decalogue. You said so. I think it's an important achievement about the decalogue that's being shared in the music festivals, that campaign "Aggression Off." I agree, because I was also at a concert where these booths from Galicia were already installed, where they have to be more visible. We have to do a lot more, but I think it's all about getting started. And I think that decadent, where the focus is, without any doubt, on the aggressor, and, of course, it is clear that in no case is a woman another thing than an assault that must denounce, I think it is fundamental. That's where we started. And I say, welcome is all the proposals to improve an initiative that started this year, but that we have to develop a lot more, and I hope the example will work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u289	Thank you, Vice President. Before moving to the eighth item on the agenda, which is that of questions to the Government -- well, the honourable Members and the honourable Members already know it -- there is a mishap of a fishing vessel based in Vigo, where a crewman died and twenty-five were rescued alive, and there is a missing one; this happened in the Patagonia region. So from here on, our solidarity with all the family. And now yes, we've moved on to questions to the Government. Question by Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the action being carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the catastrophe caused by the explosion of pyrotechnic material in the place of Paramos, in the Town Hall of Tui
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u290	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u291	Good afternoon, Mr. Rueda. Last May 23 tragedy occurred in the place of Paramos, in the county of Tui, with the explosion of this pyrotechnic material stored in a completely irregular way, and tragedy that led to the life of 2 people, 37 people injured, countless damage, 31 homes totally destroyed, around 86 with very damaged structure. In total, 311 households with some level of impact; 66 vehicles affected, companies... the situation requires axile, effective and resolutive actions, and the people affected continually tell us that they do not want any benefit from the catastrophe, but they do not get harmed from a situation they are not, at all, responsible for. They only demand to regain their lives, to return to a minimum of normality. Neighbors and neighbors are suffering, want solutions, want justice, repair of the damage caused. After 49 days of the catastrophe, they perceive that the management that is being carried out is not sufficient, efficient or agile. They have a sense of abandonment and they start to fear that everything will start to spread over time and that the help will not be enough. What do the neighbors demand? Well, zoom in on the help command. They want to cover 100 percent of the damage to their homes; they don't have to pay 25% of the cost of their homes, because the help you put in place only covers, at most, EUR 109,000 in case it's their usual housing; 43,600 in case it's second residence. In the case of joules, no more than EUR 16,373 or 5,400 in the case of second residence. They consider that it is insufficient and that such aid should be extended. They demand that aid simplification mechanisms be put in place and that it be the Union that looks for documentation through property or disaster records, which can fit perfectly. Another concern is the work of dejection, which wants it to be integral, organized and agile. They ask for close, professional, continuous psychological care at Tui's health center. The situation in Paramos is a social emergency situation that needs urgent attention and the health center. They demand a comprehensive and comprehensive urban rehabilitation of the area. They ask for the exemption from the IRPF's German plot. These acts that I am appointing you, Mr Rueda, are within the scope of the Galician Union. This morning, neighbors and neighbors of Paramos were here looking for an agreement from this Parliament, a vote in favour of an initiative that was in favour of these types of demands, and they met with the vote against the People's Party, which considers that with an order of aid intended exclusively for housing and oak was sufficient.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u292	Thank you, Mrs. Prado, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u293	With which, what I ask you, Mr. Rueda...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u294	Thank you, your time is up. Mrs. Prado, time's up. Time's up. Thank you, that's it. Thank you. [[Applause]] Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, I am very glad that you ask the Government these questions about the help to the neighbors of Tui, because it gives us a foot to explain how things are going, and it's good that we discuss the help. Do you know why we can discuss the help? Because help exists. Now I'll tell you how the data is. They do not have exactly all the data. To get the data, you have to get the help and power then handle them and know who's asking for it and who's paying for it. But, well, it's logical, you don't have it, and in that sense you can make some mistake. But there's help, and, therefore, if there's help, people are watching. Of course, if you take a pen and say, no, because this is a competition from Galician Union. Of course! That's why right now, with those who were going to publish the DOG tomorrow fulfilling their commitment, the most urgent thing was all that had to do with the lack of housing, with people who suddenly ran out of their homes to live in, they were giving them help to rent, they were trying to start rebuilding their homes, they needed the Board to be able to pay the stakes for, from there on, knowing the damage and being able to repair them. All this has been done since the first moment, but what's going to come out tomorrow published in the DOG is almost 8,500,000 euros. Why? Because it's our duty, it's our competition. If you come here and say again that this is the competence of the Council of Galicia, then it is no longer the competence of anyone else... the deputation can do it. Tourism promotion is very good, it can bike and they're very good, it can collaborate so that there's a language school and it's very good, but it can't put a euro in place to help people who've been homeless. If you continue to maintain this as a dogma of faith, these people will never be sufficiently assisted, because we have said from the outset that, in addition to the effort of the Galician Union, which — I insist — is EUR 8.500,000, they needed the help of other administrations. And you don't know if you ask the question so that the neighbors have more help or just to wash their faces to other administrations who decide from the beginning that this was none of their business, and there to the people who compose themselves. If you don't get 100 percent of the board of Galicia's help, the board will put more money on you, but of us who don't expect anything at all. That's what other administrations are doing. And I'm going to say it again, because what interests the neighbors that are listening to us and that tomorrow they'll read what's said here is that they're actually helped. We were sincere and transparent from the beginning. The damage is a lot and all administrations need to be involved. I don't ask them to get involved like the Galician Union, but I ask them to involve themselves as representatives of the Greek Government. And if you tell me they have to get to 100 percent and the Galician Board only covers 80, hey! Look how easy it will be for two other administrations to help us cover 100 percent. I think that's the elemental. I think that everyone understands it. What is impossible to understand is that you keep saying that you don't have to help other administrations because it's not your competition. In your reply, I will give you data from what you've been asking for so far, from neighbors who have already charged, as are the procedures, from the difficulties you say you are experiencing. Some don't manifest it, and we correct them, and some aren't so many, much less. Especially those that have to do with documentation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u296	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u297	And if you talk to me about a concrete witness, tell me about people who aren't enough because other administrations don't want to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u298	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, your time is up. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u299	I have to remind Mr. Rueda that this is the control session for the Galician Union. At the deputation control session, he will do the control he has to do. And what I'm asking you to do is you meet 100 percent of the skills of the Galician Union. The management of Galician Union in the Paramos catastrophe is far from exemplary. You put the fan to install the report that all administrations have the same responsibilities, equal parts and to the same extent, premeditated strategy to confuse and hide the failure of the Board's obligations to the neighbors of Paramos. The German Government is not performing an act at the height of the magnitude of the catastrophe in Paramos. He has not activated the necessary human and material resources so that affected people can recover their lives as soon as possible. The targeted aid orders don't cover the necessary needs, those of their competence, and this morning they re-voted here against their enlargement. The help they're taking through chapters is to favor their communication strategy, not the needs of the neighbors and neighbours. They deny the close psychological care they need at the Tui Health Center; they simply deny it for a lack of total sensitivity. The information we receive from the affected platform is that there are 35 families targeted to receive this psychological assistance. What does the College of Psychologists tell us through their dean? That only emergency attention was paid on the 24th and 26th of May. That in attention through Primary Care, with the drift to Álvaro Cunqueiro, there's only one clinical psychologist in Álvaro Cunqueiro. That there's a waiting list and it takes months. That you're not taking care of as these people need. That orphans only had psychological attention while they were hospitalized, and that they had no more psychological assistance. They need immediate, specific psychological attention, and you're denying it for a simple question of insensitivity. That you didn't get involved in the detonation process...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u300	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you. Close this question, Mr Vice-President and President-in-Office of the Council, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, with all due respect, that you dare say that tomorrow there will be help for commercial establishments, that you are still experiencing damage in crops, for everything that hasn't been covered in the first week, that it was when we got the help, that that it responds to a strategy of communication and political strategy, really, of political understatement, let me tell you, by a person who is at the same time blessing other administrations look elsewhere because it says they don't have to take care of these people who have no home, that it perfectly portrays you, Mrs. Prado. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. [[Applause]] Look, President Feijóo will be — as you all know — next week with President Sánchez, and they know that these first visits have to be very carefully selected. One of the fundamental issues it brings is precisely the need for the involvement of all administrations, as did the Council of Galicia. This, of course, is a control session at the Galician Council, but also the other day at the Pontevedra Deputies were affected and you did everything possible, the party that governs in the MP, which is yours, so that these people couldn't talk, and as soon as he could talk, what he did was ask for help, take a great surprise and they couldn't talk anymore. And they had nothing to say because there's no reason to help them. And you have to help them, Mrs. Prado. If we don't want to do it here, we'd be absolutely satisfied if you just complement what the Union can't get, because we manage public resources and we're covering 80 percent of the damage. Look, it's already 51 applications; 19 were filed last week. I'm talking about damage to housing. Positive resolution of 27, more than 500,000 euros. There are ten people who applied for the advance payment and they already have, almost 100,000 euros. We're doing exactly what people demand because that's what people need. What could be a little more? Yes, yes, of course, it could be a little more if the rest of the administrations helped. The other day the government delegate said that he had already sent it—allelujah!, a month later, more than a month later—the file to the Central Government, to his own Government, to see if they were already beginning to consider that the emergency situation had to be declared. It's time, it's time! I already say that President Feijóo will ask for it and will insist on President Sánchez at the next meeting, selecting a few subjects, and this is very important, so that he will do so. And I hope you do, too, and you have no reason to be that Members don't get involved in this. There's no reason to be so that the riot is doing it right now, with the machines that have the deputation, the Town Hall of Tui with its own funds, because no one else helps you with the part of the Galician Union, which is helping you with the assessment of the damage, the aid, and will also help you with the detonation if necessary. And if you keep saying that it's really good to do a lot of things there, but to help people who don't have a home, it's not mandatory for any government in which you rule, these people have to do it is to blame them -- which is what you're doing right now, Mrs. Prado -- for administrations that don't govern. That's how nothing's solved. That doesn't solve people's problems. You won't see Galician Union in this situation. I'm so sorry that you're here just to see politics, just to see electoral bills, and in my opinion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u302	You've finished your shift. Thank you. Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and da Luca Chao Pérez, from G.P. de In Marea, on the actions carried out by the Government of Greece to combat discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity and to inform Law 2/2014 on 14 April for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u303	Question by Mrs Ángeles Cuña, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u304	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Mr. Education, Culture and Universitary Order Counsellor, we have laws, and what we are going to talk about now is the implementation of Law 2/2014 of April 14. Of course, having laws only makes things easier, but laws need to be implemented. And, of course, the right to be is a fundamental and non-excusable right. Laws such as the Jakarta principle, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the European Parliament resolution on homophobia and transphobia, the UN Council resolution. We also have a conscience and a desire to be. We value the quality and legislative implementation. That's where we detect a lot of immobilism. You're probably going to make me a relationship of all the activities developed. I'm sure it's starting now. But, after four years of law-making, we have a report on the one hand, we've already talked about this morning's report. A report that is more descriptive than analytical; a report that is a cut and paste; a report that is somewhat lacking in respect to people who can read it. It's 100 pages, it could be 500 pages, but it actually starts on page 36, as my colleague Marcos Cal said this morning and also other people who spoke very well, who said it was a report made to the races. We believe that in violation of rights to be, the most affected and vulnerable LGTBI community is that of children, children and adolescents. Really, no matter how strong they are, the anguish that causes harassment, cyber-acoustics, violence, psychological and physical aggression is terrible. You guys made a document that's really fine, together with an association, Arelas, which is the protocol for prevention, detection and intervention of suicide risk. We know there's a very high suicide rate, so we think this should be a priority for any government, and more for its own. The question that we bring here today is that they did, really, at this time, because we don't think that two free-setting subjects, we don't think that only intervene in third of the ESO, we don't think that teacher training courses, not nine or twenty hours, are enough. We believe, for example, that in the programme contracts there were only 230 centres, of 1,100, which were hosted by the cohabitation programme contracts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u305	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u306	...and promoting equality. It seems very little to us. We want to know your rating, since there's no official data. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u307	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor for the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u308	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cuña, you know, because we have repeated it on many occasions, that a good education system has to basically educate in two variables: it has to educate in values the society of the future and it has to also educate in knowledge, skills and skills; and for us they are practically alike on both issues. It is very important for us to educate new generations in values, and within the values that make a society more fair, more egalitarian, to some extent better for the future, is equality. Obviously, we've been working on this line for a long time, and I think it's been very advanced. There's a lot of road to walk, no doubt, but if you look back and see the situation four or five years ago, you'll see that there's a radical, tremendously important change in this area, as far as training in values in education is concerned. In fact, the question that you are asking I don't know whether it's repetitive or whether it's to cover the file -- allow me the expression -- because this morning we spoke to this Parliament, but a very complete report on the application of Law 2/2014, on equal treatment and non-discrimination of the LGTBI group, and you know perfectly well that last week there were two committees, Commission 4a, where the Director General of Education participated, and Commission 5a, where the Secretary-General of Equality participated, virtually responding to what I'm going to answer now, that obviously is a report of activities, events, fitos, which demonstrate that this government has a very important concern to convey, in this case, the value of equality to current generations, since we understand that this is positive for future generations; that is, for the Greeks and for the Galicians tomorrow. Obviously, I understand you, too. It's much easier to say that there's nothing, that it's all a disaster, even almost underestimating a series of data that are tremendously important if I had evaluated them without the profile or the ideological-political carpet, but, of course, you know how I do that Galicia, in this field, has developed and has made a very remarkable effort. We were the first autonomous community in Spain to have a specific, exclusive law against the discrimination of the LGTBI collective. You know that perfectly well. It's a law that has basically a value: to avoid discrimination or different treatment of rights to people based on their sexual orientation, absolutely legitimate and that each person decides; and to be naturally, whatever, a struggle against discrimination of a natural nature, that there is no kind of imposition. And from the educational point of view, both specific and concrete actions are very important that are being developed and the transversal character of the translation of the values of equality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u309	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u310	I'm sure in the second intervention I'll be able to give you more data, for your tranquility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u311	You have the word, for the reply, Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u312	The subject of covering the file, I'm sorry, but it's not very respectful, at all. Is it covering the record of children and girls, boys and girls, who live in shadows? Suicide level is not a joke, it can't even chance, it can't be used, from no point of view. I was saying a boy, a boy, the last child we know has committed suicide this year, that we have to go through very bad times. The moments that pass are terrible. Of course, we have to educate in values. Of course it can be made cross-sectional. Of course it can be done at all levels of teaching. Of course it's not that hard. We must have human resources, technical and economic resources, of course. There's a lot of will on the part of a lot of teachers. You can work from the puppets, you can work on all the materials. We need to raise awareness of the population. You may be satisfied with everything you're doing, I think it's insufficient. He also said, least of all, that there is a lot to be done. We were pioneering law, yes. Do you know what ranking we're in now? In the ninth in four years. Malta is in the first place, because there are countries that actually implement the law, countries that actually carry out large, extensive campaigns. So we have all the resources that we have humanly, guidance departments, puppetry, all the teachers, but the teacher has to form it so that he has tools and that these tools really raise social awareness, because a law doesn't give social transformation. Now that in schools today, it's easier to find a transphobic pamphlet like the one in Makete hear and not sensitization programs, it shows what's to be done. From En Marea we bet on a school as a real social transformation space. Please, Counselor, ete is a matter that should be a priority. They unload all the tools at their disposal to alleviate absenteeism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u313	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u314	...and the tears of abandonment and suicide.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u315	You have the word, for the reply, the Councillor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u316	Mrs. Cuña, you can never be satisfied with the fight against violence, the lack of respect for people and discrimination on the basis of gender. You can never be satisfied. I'm not even this government is. Now, not to admit that you've made a very significant breakthrough in recent years with regard to today is to miss the truth. I think I'm going to give you data and do a storytelling of a series of lines of work where you'll realize that it's been done a lot and that there's still a lot to do. You quoted, without going further, a protocol that was approved in 2016. We were the first autonomous community to do so, and it's being applied. And in some cases -- I know some -- in many, it's being applied. In those cases where it is necessary, sometimes in extremely harsh family and social situations, there is a tool that supports teachers and supports families in order to lead to a very complex, very difficult and very harsh situation, but we have a protocol that is leading this situation. We were also one of the first autonomous communities that we had an action plan for equality in educational institutions. We've had a number of actions that are being implemented. For what? To ensure the fulfilment of principles as equality can be, as may respect in the exercise of gender freedom, something also very important. We were the first autonomous community in Spain to put in place a subject of free configuration in ESO, which is gender equality, and this year we have just presented not many dates a new subject for Bachelorship, which is called Co-Education for the 21st century, to cover the spectrum. We have a higher cycle of vocational training in the promotion of gender equality in Janqueira II, which many autonomous communities do not have. And every year, awareness campaigns are conducted, as you know perfectly well. And I'm also going to tell you other questions. As far as program contracts are concerned, I am surprised that you say that 203 educational institutions are very few, because they are really very important. And in formation this year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u317	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u318	...—end, Your Honor—there is a specific equal training plan and last year 11,412 teachers were trained in gender equality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u319	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u320	I think the data speak for itself of the concern of this government for a fundamental value...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u321	Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u322	...such as gender equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u323	We're still on the agenda. Question by D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogango, from G.P. Parliamentary of En Marea, on the reasons of the Government of Greece not to adopt the Landscape Guidelines within the time limit
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u324	Mr. Sánchez García has the floor to put the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u325	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. I don't know how to run for the Town Hall by the People's Party, but as environmental advisor you're missing. When there's an attack on the environment, you're never expected. One of the operational instruments of the Landscape Act adopted in 2008 is the Landscape Guidelines, which must set the quality targets for each unit in the landscape catalogue. The guidelines have two objectives. One, fix the landscape quality indicators for the control and follow-up of the state and evolution of the landscape units. And two, set standards and recommendations for the integration of landscape-quality objectives into urban and sectoral plans, as well as regional and local strategies, such as the wind sector plan. This landscape protection law was approved ten years ago. The Galician Union was not in a hurry in its development; it was neither in a hurry nor in a hurry. The Board of Governors approved on December 12, 2016 the start of the environmental process of the Landscape Guidelines. At that time, Mr. Feijóo said that the guidelines would be adopted in 2017, pretending that the landscape guidelines are a legal duty. It's finished 2017, we've passed the 2018 equator, and the landscape guidelines, promise and obligation, are still unadopted. Effectiveness, efficiency and quick response are the attributes that the president likes to adorn his good managers' government. And you belong to the flower and cream of the good managers of President Feijóo, Mrs Mato. And as it shows its effectiveness, efficiency and rapid response, ten years after the approval of the Landscape Law, we continue without landscape guidelines. A year and a half after the start of the environmental process, we went on without the landscape guidelines. And half a year after Mr Feijóo's promise of the 2017 deadline, we're still waiting. This promise continues, like many others of Mr. Feijóo, in the drawer. And this slowness of adopting the Landscape Guidelines translates into disprotection of our landscape and natural property. His lack of initiative is not innocent, he's an accomplice, they don't do and they let go, they don't protect and they let our landscape destroy. Now, incidentally, Counsellor, there is a real avalanche of wind farms projects that are being processed without the approval of the landscape guidelines, which involves a smaller environmental and landscape guarantee, Counsellor, and this is not innocent either. You're working for the big power stations that are developing these wind farms, which would have higher demands for these landscape guidelines to be approved. So, Counsellor, what date will the Landscape Guidelines be approved? When did they keep that promise? Why not establish a moratorium on the approval of wind farms pending the approval of the Landscape Guidelines, so that you can approve the wind farms with all guarantees? And tell me if you're going to do something to paralyze the landscape aggression that's taking place right now. Are you going to give us a date or will you ask for an extension, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u326	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. To answer, you have the word for the Environmental and Territorial Planning Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u327	Thank you very much. For as you said very well, indeed, ten years ago of this law, and after these ten years this government has been implementing a new urban model and indeed fighting for the protection of the landscape with all the figures and instruments that we have in our existence, developed uniquely and exclusively by that government. Among them, indeed, the Landscape Guidelines, which is a legal obligation, even though we also understand that it is a collective obligation of society. They are also the result of intense work that has been done; a research work that was needed to elaborate the landscape catalogues. The guidelines will also allow you to establish quality targets for each of these landscape units and ensure better protection for all of them. In this council, we have the firm conviction that I am an instrument that is fundamental to the protection of our landscape, and that is the objective we are working on in its elaboration in recent months. You said, and said very well, that it was in December 2016 when we forwarded this draft to the board of directors, and automatically, after sending it to the board of directors, the agreement was made on the start of the environmental assessment procedure. Turns out, by the way, it ended in May 2017, i.e. more than a year ago. On that date we received the Strategic Environmental Report, which resolved not to submit the document to the process of strategic environmental assessment. This report also recommended incorporating the guidelines into consideration such as collecting its application for sectoral and urban planning instruments and even setting benchmarks for follow-up indicators. We continue with the processing of guidelines, incorporating recommendations set out in that report, listening to all stakeholders — that is, Mr Sánchez — and drawing up the complete document of the Landscape Guidelines. We were not stopped at any time, since we had more than 15 meetings with the departments of the Galician Union, with Urbanism, Energy, Rural Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture, Cultural Heritage, Infrastructure or Living. The outcome of these meetings we have introduced amendments to that guidance document. But we also continue to talk to the Official Mining Chamber, to all associations in the forest sector and to all those involved in this document. In all these months we are working hard to get as complete a document as possible, which takes into account all the points of view and makes it compatible with the protection and improvement of the landscape with the socio-economic development of our community. Unfortunately, our temporary expectations have not been met — indeed, Mr Sánchez. I prefer that it be so that I can count on a good document, a quality document, and not a bad document, but that it's time-consuming. We want to equip Galicia and implement a new landscape culture to achieve project integration and landscape, and I firmly believe that we are on the right track. Of course, in relation to wind farms, try to leave here, above the table, which is why there are no reports of landscape integration, which are preceptive and absolutely necessary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u328	Thank you, Mrs. Mato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u329	...for each of the parks, it's not the right thing to do. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u330	For the reply, Mr. Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u331	Counsellor, you have just acknowledged the failure to comply with the deadlines for the approval of the Landscape Guidelines. Instead, you were too fast to approve the Act of business initiatives, known as the law of depredation, which you passed here in three months. For that you are very fast; they are the fastest in the west peninsula. When it comes, on the other hand, to fix guarantees, you leave it to do, and this, of course, benefits the installation of projects of wind farms that badly farm our landscape. When you answered that, despite not being the approved landscape guidelines, you have to do studies that take into account the landscape impact, do you know what you're saying? What is the same as approved landscape guidelines? Are they useless as an instrument, then? If they do with the same guarantees whether there are guidelines or not, they are a useless tool, and we believe it's not useless, precisely the companies are taking advantage of them, and you are going to be done to install or authorize them, or to use these parks, and when the landscape guidelines are approved, they apply to the irretroactivity that electric companies asked them for when it was the public exhibition phase, which I have here the allegations of wind companies and Fenosa Natural Gas, that they ask for a series of issues that are randomly being met. I mean, the same arguments you're saying here: they didn't have to comply with the landscape guidelines because there were really instruments like the sectoral plan that took into account landscape issues. Obviously, while you're delaying the approval of the Landscape Guidelines, you're processing parks like Pena Forcada, in Laxe, which are affecting an area in Cabana de Bergantiños, in Laxe and Zas, to three landscaping districts, and to the large landscaped area of plains and western pits, and this is being done without the guarantees that would give the approval of the Landscape Guidelines. You're being an accomplice to the electricians and allowing the landscaping in this country either because of their incompetence or because of their convolence. One of two, you promised in 2016 to have approved in 2017...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u332	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u333	...the landscape guidelines and they haven't met, and that's what wind companies are taking advantage of, and also, in many cases, mining companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u334	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Government's reply, the Environmental Adviser has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u335	I believe that Galicia has more than enough tools to comply with and enforce environmental legislation and, of course, also in landscape matters, and one of them is precisely to provide an impact and landscape integration report on all those projects that have it. That doesn't mean that in the development of a ten-year-old law -- we've actually been working around the Government for the improvement of the urban model of our autonomous community -- even for the implementation of the Land Management Guidelines, which today is a reality, or even the Coastal Management Plan, which is a reality thanks to this government, actually, from the adoption of the Galician guidelines will have that landscape atlas, beyond the catalogue. In the Landscape Guidelines we are currently working, Mr. Sánchez, and you should care that you work and work well, and that you collect all the allegations and concerns from all departments, not only from the Council of Galicia, but from all sectors, and how many more opinions you have, much better, because, indeed, that is what will provide Galicia with serious guidelines and strict guidelines. We are shaping that document, discussed, as I say, with all those concerned. We are committed to developing a responsible and sustainable urbanism, which is kept in time. The landscape guidelines are in fact in line with this objective, so the final document must collect all the necessary steps to make it a quality document, Mr Sánchez. We want to do the job well done, with the time that we're actually needing. We want to do a work that is not conditioned in time, I insist, a quality work, and for this reason the guidance document was analyzed by the various departments of the Galician Union, and this is not done, of course, in a day or a month, and it was also analyzed by the different sectors concerned. This process, from our perspective, is absolutely essential. In addition, once the guidelines have been adopted, they will be properly incorporated into the management of all plans, programmes and sectoral projects, as well as into urban planning instruments. The outcome of all these meetings and meetings with all these bodies, collectives and agents are and are being incorporated into this document that we have planned to end in September. In September we thought this document was already a reality, it's closed and it starts processing. That's right, I want to make it clear and that this instrument, even if it's not approved, does not mean that the projects going on in our community. Whether they're from wind farms or whatever, they don't pass any filters or they're breaking the law. On the contrary, they are subject to environmental assessment in a process in which we issue the corresponding report of impact and landscape integration, and as soon as the guidelines are approved, this tool...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u336	Thank you, Mrs. Mato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u337	...will complement all the tools and instruments that Galicia will count on to protect our landscape. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u338	Thank you, Mrs. Mato. We're still on the agenda. Question from Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members from the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the view of the Government of Galicia regarding the environmental impact that is having the lack of sewage treatment station in the place of San Miguel de Reinante, in the municipality of Barreiros
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u339	To put the question, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u340	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor, Mrs. Mato. One of the most important collaborations the Autonomic Administration should have with local administrations is support for the planning, execution and financing of water supply, sanitation and purification infrastructures. This collaboration is an important aid to the development of municipal competences on the provision of the supply, sanitation and clean-up service by the municipalities, which in many cases require numerous investments which are difficult to afford by municipal treasures. The scope of this type of collaboration extends to all Greek municipalities. It's not that I'd put myself particularly creative for this text that I just read, but it's just on the Galician Waters website. So we agree and we understand that the Government agrees with this that appears on its own website or on one of its websites. I'm not going to tell you about Coruña, it's something original, I'm going to tell you about Barriers. The Town Hall of Barreiros, on the coast of Lugo, is also a municipality which, as you know, I am sure you know, has areas of special protection: CEP, CIP and Nature Network area, and has an important impact on a severe problem of purification. In 2016 this council had to close for the first time to the bathroom a hundred meters on one of the beaches for a problem of lack of clearance of one of the debuggers, that of San Miguel de Reinante, which is overrun in summer times because it does not have the ability to debug all the wastes that come there as a result of the population increase, since it is designed for about 500 neighbors. In August 2016, this municipality, which was the most blue flags of all Galicia, lost them all. Not all for lack of debugging, but one of them, precisely on the beach of Longa Area, on the others for problems related to the service of rescue and public baths. In September 2017, the mayor interviewed Mr. President of the Galician Union and, as a result of that interview, he concluded that the Board has a project done and that we are looking at it as if it were going to be done as anyone looking to see if it rains. I don't know anymore. Expectations to be made? No idea. See if something's done this year, it's all the mayor of Barriers, mayor of the People's Party. It looks like a sort of Biblical resignation to a divine punishment. So our question, what do we ask, is: what do the Government of Greece think, despite having already a number of projects in evaluation, the negative environmental impact and impact that is happening in the place of San Miguel de Reinante, in Barreiros, because of the lack of a suitable environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u341	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. For the reply, you have the word of Mrs Mato's Environmental and Territorial Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u342	Thank you very much. Mr. Álvarez, when you started your intervention, the truth is that I was very happy because I was listening to you and fully agreeing with you. What I didn't know was that you were actually reading what the Galician Waters Department puts on the website. I am glad, however, that you have agreed that, in fact, the collaboration of the most important that an autonomous administration can have with the municipalities is precisely in the area of sanitation. And I say I'm glad because, indeed, the word collaboration is key, since the competences, as you know very well that they assume it, are strictly municipal, and so they say it three laws, it's not only Galician Water Law, but also the Local Administration Act and local regime bases. What the Council of Galicia is doing is actually supporting the councils, and this collaboration we believe is essential for the development of strictly municipal competences. A work that is linked to the control of the vegetation, which we also do from the waters of Galicia, from industrial urban waters to the hydraulic public domain to prevent possible conditions. And that's what we're doing, Mr. Álvarez, in the Town Hall of Barreiros, as in most of the Greek municipalities. We are working with the municipal government in the exercise of its powers in the field of sanitation. There is a collaboration that is not new, and I am convinced that you too remember very well, because, if I am not mistaken, you have also been in the deputation, and there was a moment — you do not, very well, give your colleagues the same as you do — in that the Council of Barriers and even the deputation we signed — specifically in 2010 — an agreement between the three parties precisely to develop the project and then the sanitation infrastructure of this municipality. There were problems you know, certainly, of an urban nature that made it impossible to bring this agreement forward by the three parties, of course, not by the side of the Galician Union. However, we did not stand still and kept our commitment, which is what we achieved, that is to have already drafted the project of the future era of San Miguel de Reinante. It is a project that in this drafting which is already a reality has an estimated investment of EUR 3 million, EUR 3.2 million, which will actually improve the functioning of the entire purification system, so that the waste water treated is in accordance with the current rules. This project of what I'm talking about, which was already supervised by the waters of Galicia and which was already done by the waters of Galicia, which cost the waters of Galicia — so much to all the Greeks— EUR 100,000, is already finished on May 28th, I believe you knew it, because the information I have is that it was transferred to your group on June 11th, which was facilitated to the council at 13 days of having the final report of this project. Therefore, the Galician Union is fulfilling its commitment. The commitment was to make the drafting, and the drafting of that project is already a reality. This project is defined by giving a little more information about the new Edar, which will replace the current installation, which is designed for 5,000 inhabitants and will transfer the waters...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u343	Thank you, Mrs. Mato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u344	...procedents of the Barranca collector, the pumping of the Passes and the surplus of the Reinvent Edar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u345	Thank you very much. Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u346	Thank you, Counselor, for your answer. Obviously, of course we knew the project. We have a certain tendency to read the Government's answers when he answers us. When not, sometimes we can guess the reasons why he doesn't answer, but generally, when we get answers, we read with interest what they say. In any case, the response speed is variable. To the first question we asked on August 4, 2017, we were answered on February 5, 2018, that is, six months later, and we were asking about existing sanitation problems at that time. We were replied that the drafting of that project was being processed to which you have just referred and that it was now approved, once supervised, of course. The truth is that Galician Waters opened six files to the Barriers Council, as you also informed us, and also after a certain period of months, to our unnecessary trial, since we were asking for a specific data. By the way, you answered us saying that there were six files, neither the amount of sanctions nor the reasons why they were imposed. It's a way of answering a little laconic, but we're going to give it as acceptable. In this same answer, you repeat that, indeed, competition is municipal, but the municipalities — and above all those of the size of Barriers and many like him — have problems — as the decree itself recognizes and read to you before — to finance investments of this magnitude. You're going to allow me to make a little reference to a certain asymmetry that you have with collaboration with the Town Councils, and I'm not going to tell you that there's a certain issue, that's there, that's going to be analyzed at another time, but yes, for example, that happens to you with the mayor of Barriers, who is yours, why they do the debugger to Foz, who also needs it, of course, which is also the People's Party. It is a conflict that you should resolve, because, above all, and regardless of the political problems that may exist, it affects neighbouring, it affects the quality of the waters that are being poured out, and in particular it sees you directly to the sea. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u347	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. For the reply, Mrs. Environmental Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u348	Mr. Álvarez, although it is not specifically the Barriers Council, I can inform you, if you do not know, that I am working very hard with the Galician Municipal Federation to try to reach an agreement on various issues linked precisely with the financing of investments in sanitation and supply, both with the municipalities and with the deputies, precisely to resolve any doubts about it and to be able to prioritize all these projects. It's a job where, of course, I'm not gonna get up from the table because I want to get that deal. But by talking about investments, particularly in the area of sanitation, and by staying in the same area, by staying in the Marine Lighting, it is also important to know that, within the hydrological planning that this plan has already been approved, the Council of Galicia, by the year 2021, where we are committed 650 million euros, 20 million euros will go to the Marine Lighting of ERDF funds. They're in Viveiro 3 million euros, in Burela 9 million euros. I say it because in Viveiro the People's Party does not rule and in Burela does not rule the People's Party. In fact, at Foz we've been planning to make an investment of 8 million euros, and in this investment you're asking, which is Barreiros, which is exactly as important as the rest of the investment, the Galician Union is willing to sit with the same three actors we were at first, in 2010. In 2010 we were three governments committed to carrying forward that sanitation, that investment, which for some municipalities — and I understand that for Barreiros — is a very high investment for the budget that can have that council. If the Lugo Deputy sits down, if the Town Hall sits down, the Galician Board will also be sitting there to talk about the future of that investment. The commitment to support the exercise of the powers of the municipalities in the field of sanitation and supply of this Union of Galicia is undeniable. More than EUR 1 billion has been invested in the full crisis in supply and sanitation, specifically sanitation, and now we have committed EUR 650 million more. I'm just talking to you about the 20 million euros from the Navy are shining, because we're talking about that area specifically. There have been fines, and there will be all that is needed if we detect uncontrolled spills. More than 11 drop points have also been removed since that one, so much so that today, and even now, in these days that we have information on the situation in which the beaches are located, the beaches in the area are not giving quality problems in the bathing waters. This is something that controls the Health Council, which doesn't control this board. Finally, is there a need? Yes. Is there a project? Yes. The commitment of this council, which was to draft the project, is it a reality? It's a reality and you know it. What do you need to keep moving? I don't doubt it. That I want to come to an agreement with all the municipalities and their highest representation that is the FEGAMP and the Members in this matter? We're working on that local water pact, which is for me one of the priorities within this council, and of course specifically for the neighborhoods of Barriers and for the Government of Barriers. If we have to sit down, we sit down and talk. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u349	Thank you, Mrs. Mato. We continue with the accumulated debate of the questions contained in the sixth, seventh and eighth place, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block, of the Socialists of Galicia and of the People's Party of Galicia, respectively. Question from G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of D Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the knowledge of the basic project's Greek Government and environmental impact study for the application for integrated environmental authorisation of the waste management facilities located in Teo. Question from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members, on the position to be adopted by the Government of Greece regarding the request for the installation of a waste management plant in the former barracks of Casalonga, in the municipality of Teo Question from G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and nine other Members, on the possible transfer by the Council of Teo to the Council of Galicia of some reports on the project to install a waste treatment and recycling plant in Casalonga, promoted by Toca and Salgado, S.L. (TOYSAL)
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u350	To begin the debate, first you have the floor, to put the question, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u351	Good afternoon, Counselor. Three weeks ago you couldn't attend the plenary to answer a BNG question on this issue. Curiously today, there are two more questions in two other groups, and it seems to us very well, positive and healthy to address this subject with all possible approaches. From the BNG what we want to move here is neighboring concern. Here is a representation of the platform "The Houselonga clean of waste", and other representatives also neighbors and institutional representatives of the Teo Town Council, and what we want with this question is that on the part of the board and on the part of the municipal government of Teo they abandon the maneuvers of dilation and evasives and that it stops at once this purpose. We think that there are many and powerful reasons, legal reasons, to prevent the installation of an industrial sludge treatment plant in the old quarry of Casalonga, in the parish of Calo, first of all because of the characteristics of the installation, which provides for the treatment of around 80,000 tons of sewage sludge for the production of biogas, and which is going to undergo construction works, the urbanization of the plot, the paving of roads, the construction of a roundabout, which have an undeniable impact on the land, which will involve a transformation and urbanization of the land, which is something that specifically prohibits the Law of the soil in its Article 35.1(m) It does not allow installations to manage waste in rustic soil, which is the characterization that has this parcel, when they involve the urbanization or transformation of the land. This reason seems more than enough for the Teo Town Hall to act and dismiss the location of this industrial plant project in this location, because, indeed, the Teo Town Hall has competences in urban matters. But Junta also has environmental competences, environmental impact assessment, and waste management, and according to these competences it must also intervene in the processing of this project and it must also discard it and stop it, because it is a project that will have a very negative impact on the environment. We must remember that it is a very densely inhabited area and that this facility, less than 400 metres from a inhabited area, of a residential area, will have an impact on the air, on the waters, on the heritage and on the Santiago Way. And thirdly, if the above is not enough, there is sectoral legislation adopted in this country, the industrial waste plan of Galicia, which sets criteria for placement and establishes strong restrictions for these sites, and in particular says that they should not be located in industrial polygons, and it also speaks of these restrictions. Therefore, Counsellor, all these questions and reasons seem to us to be blunt, clear and round to prevent this installation, and we asked what they were waiting for to give a folder to this project. You have here today a wonderful opportunity to reassure a neighborhood that I assure you it is in a village, you are very concerned, you are distressed by the threat of this industrial facility in a location that is absolutely inaccurate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u352	Thank you, Mr Bará. Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u353	Thank you, President. Counsellor, you don't need to explain that at the end of last year in Teo's own Town Hall an application for this 90,000-ton waste treatment and recycling project to produce mainly biogas that needs an integrated environmental authorisation by the Galician Union. We bother to read the project, we review it, and in this project there are several references, and I'm going to tell you a few, to see you, even though I suppose you know it. A raft of 5,000 cubic metres will be installed, and it is possible to affect the rivercourses of the Sar and Tinto River, which are about 1 km from where the plant will go. You know what the current situation on the Sar River is, even if it's just for the smell it has. In addition, noise and vibration will be produced by machinery and by the traffic of vehicles that will obviously affect people living there; particles of polluting gases will be emitted into the atmosphere that can have negative effects; waste will be generated, which are similar to urban ones, which can cause contamination of soils, aquifers and surface waters; infectious outbreaks will be created, and the project itself says that they can proliferate pests of rodents and pests of insects. This comes from the very project that this group, Toysal, introduced to the Town Hall and therefore also to the Council of Galicia. The project's conclusions are that several cutting-edge technologies that are not specified will be used, and it's also impossible to establish a detailed restoration plan — that's what the project puts — for the impossible forecast of the evolution of the socio-economic conditions of the place in Teo, in Casalonga, and in the nation. That's what the project says. The neighbours, and here there is a representation of the Teo Town Hall and also a representation of the platform itself, are concerned, Casalonga is a place with a lot of population, and the Government must be transparent, we understand, and give explanations, because, as I told them earlier, you are competent for the integrated environmental authorization of this type of activity. On May 30th in the Town Hall, unanimously, a motion was adopted rejecting these kinds of installations in rustic soil. This approval was also ratified by representatives in the Town Hall of the People's Party. This not only happens in Casalonga, it passes also elsewhere in Galicia, where these kinds of waste plants are projected in rustic soil, or in soils near residential areas, and we believe that we need to change this situation, this reality, legally. The question is quite simple, we'd like to know what will be the position of the Government of Galician Union in this project of installing a waste plant in Casalonga, Calo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u354	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. To put your question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u355	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counsellor. As the other groups have already moved forward, the neighbors and neighbors of Teo are very concerned, Counselor, before the possibility of installing a waste treatment plant in a residential area very close to the houses, and also very close to areas of heritage protection such as the Way of Santiago, such as the mammoths, petroglyphs, castles of Socastro, of Francos, and a lot of medieval deposits in the area. We're talking about a waste plant that smells unbearable to be found next to the houses. We're talking about sewage sludge, we're talking about canteen sludge, we're talking about manure sludge, we're talking about manure sludge, we're talking about manure sludge, we're talking about manure sludge, we're talking about manure sludge, we're talking about manure sludge, we're talking about waste sludge from agri-food industries, because we're not talking about the continuous transit of trucks carrying these waste, about an average of 70 tons a day. Well, Counsellor, it's the utmost concern, and as we're at the most embryonic stage of the process, we think we should try to avoid this installation from the beginning, because it's very difficult to revoke these kinds of activities and installations. The Popular Municipal Group in Teo, as Mrs. Vilán put forward, closed ranks with the rest of the municipal groups, with the PSOE, with the Power Tides and with the Galician Nationalist Block, and did not want to politicize this matter, despite the fact that, as it was said, it has been more than eight months on the council table, and still today we do not know what happened, nor how it was processed, nor any kind of management was done with that project. It also took them two months to get to know the neighbors and neighbors of Teo. They had eight months hidden that project. We consider, Counsellor, that all administrations are obliged to assume their responsibilities with the utmost responsibility, with the highest legal and social protection, and the first administration to be aware of this project was the Town Hall. In this context, Toysal has asked the municipality of Teo for a report on urban compatibility to verify whether the land at the old site of Casalonga allows or not an installation of these characteristics. A request that forms part of the process's proceedings so that the Board will grant the license of activity; it is a mandatory procedure for the works license. The only and most important action the Council can and should take in the administrative process is this report. This report can close the file, you can close the file, gentlemen! I understand that the Tides of Podemos don't like them, because they don't ask. Here we see three groups asking questions, some don't ask questions, but I say there's legislation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u356	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u357	...sufficient to process this urban incompatibility report. Article 35 of the Land Law says that "always they do not involve the urbanization or transformation of the land by which they run." Mr. Lois Bará, to give you a folder on this matter, there is only a need for a report of urban incompatibility by the Council of Teo. Counsellor, have you reached the council any reports from the Council of Teo? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u358	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Quiet. To answer the three questions you have the word to Mrs. Mato Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u359	Thank you. First of all, I would also like to express my appreciation to the neighbours who accompany us today and to the conciliator also of the Teo Town Hall that is here, and of course, to the Members who thank me for giving me the opportunity to try to clarify or at least give some light to what is the processing of a dossier of these characteristics, especially after seeing and taking very seriously the social response that you are having at this moment. It is worth noting that we are in the process of handling a dossier for an installation of a waste treatment centre — which is more than described here — which is not dangerous than actually coming from agri-food industry, which has a biodigestion of concentrated treatment of dichostats which can indeed be very odorous in the Casalonga quarry. In the file that the Board is currently processing what the Galician Board is going to do is the same thing it does with absolutely all the files that are processed from the Environmental Council, which is to comply with the legality. This means that any file when you enter this office comes in and gets processed and meets every step, absolutely every step, to ensure the good end of that file. And when I say "good end," it's the good end, the end of the file, whether it's yes or no, but the end of the file, that ensures that there's no legal remedy that can put it on trial canvas. This file, in fact, entered the council in December 2017, while in the Council of Theo — as it has already been said — at the same time. And today we're at a very early stage. This business initiative must be subjected to that double process: on the one hand, integrated environmental authorisation and on the other hand environmental assessment of projects. And, as always, this procedure is being done with full assurance and transparency, and it will involve citizens, administrations and related entities. We are currently at the most initial stage, which is that of prior consultations and the content of the document. Then, once this phase is finished, I calculate that it will end in fifteen days, the project will be submitted to public information within thirty days. It is at that moment, at the time of public information, when the council or anyone, even the neighbors of Teo, or any interested entity, of course, will also have the opportunity to make their claims to this project. Then, with all these allegations that are made after these thirty days, we will forward the complete dossier to the other bodies involved in issuing their corresponding report. And there he will speak again, but officially in that time, the Council of Theo, Waters of Galicia, the Conseilerie de Medio Rural, the Institute of Studies of the Territory, Cultural Heritage, the Council of Economics and Environmental Assessment. And the penultimate step in this long procedure, after we've gone through all of this that I've just described, will be forwarding all this information to the project's promoter company, which will give you audience processing. And finally, on the basis of all this information, we will proceed to resolve the file. So, Mr Bará, I think I've already answered your question. In fact, the Galician Union has known since the end of 2017, just like the Teo Town Hall of this project, and we are taking the first steps of its processing, as we do with any other file. Folders cannot be pasted like this here because they can. The only possibility of "pasting folder" — as you say — would be that the Teo Council had actually provided a report of urban incompatibility. The only report — that is what I say to you — of all I have written, that is binding and that can close a file, close it and finish it and that's it — is this urban compatibility report. We strictly comply with the law: request the necessary reports, which is my obligation. My duty is to finish the procedure. That doesn't mean it's not going to be yes or no, it's going to end the procedure. The only thing that closes the procedure before time is the report on urban incompatibility. If you know the legislation, it shouldn't even be clear. We're at a very early point in the processing process, so we have to let the technicians work. Mrs. Vilan, as I've just explained, it's too early to know how this file will be finished, very early because all this processing is still missing. What I really want to make very clear is the position of the Council of Galicia: the project must strictly comply with all existing environmental legislation and, indeed — as you said very well, and I think Mr Bará also said — with the Industrial Waste Management Plan that made this government 2016-2022, with regard to location and also with regard to the distance it should keep from the nuclei. And if they don't do it, it won't be authorized. If you do not have a single report, it will not be authorized. We're doing what we should do, which is to process it and give legal certainty to this file. And so we also transferred it to the neighbors of Teo, who had a representation, even the Town Hall and the mayor, who was sitting in the office of the CEO of Environmental Quality, at a meeting we had with the technicians. And, Mrs Prado, the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Act states that the municipality in which a waste treatment facility is intended should issue urban reports. This urban compatibility report is totally binding. And I repeat again: it is the only binding report of the whole procedure; if the procedure does not have to reach its end, it must not be resolved until the end. This municipal report if it was negative would have the opportunity to file this file immediately. So far, the Teo Town Hall is planning to issue this urban compatibility report. I think the Town Councillor is here; therefore, she will know very well what situation this report is in, which at some point will have to be issued. The document must determine and justify whether or not the project is compatible with urbanism, with the Town Hall General Plan. And if he isn't, the Town Hall has in its hands that possibility of giving him that word that he likes, which is the "teaching." This is something that we often explained to the mayor, who we also explained to the neighbors at a held meeting and which, in fact, was the first time that the Council of Theo addressed to this council to discuss this file; the first, after so many months, to be able to speak of this project in Theo. And the mayor knows perfectly well, because we told him -- and I repeat it here -- that we are at your disposal to solve any kind of doubt you might have about the project or about processing, even if you have any doubts about the urban report. But what we should do for our band is keep working and moving forward in environmental processing. Like it or not, the file starts, and the file has to end by strictly complying with what environmental reporting legislation requires us. What I would like is to take this opportunity to make a call to tranquility, because I recognize the anxiety that in the population of Teo can cause this file. But actually, I don't think it's contributing to anything to play with people's fear. And it doesn't contribute to anything going encouraging and distributing flyers around the neighborhood to alarm even more, especially in the situation and at the moment we're now, absolutely incipient. Be assured that the project for Teo is being evaluated in depth, very deep, and that it will not be authorized if it does not comply with any of the reports I have just said, that we are going to complain, and that we have not yet claimed because we are in the initial phase of the proceeding. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u360	Thank you, Mrs. Mato. For the reply you have, first of all, the word Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u361	Thank you. Mr Prado del Río, if it is not clear to you, this Member, Lois Bará — if you wish — spoke of the municipal powers and powers of the Galician Union; everyone has their responsibilities and must exercise them. And we are talking, of course, about the Industrial Waste Plan and the powers of the Galician Waste Board and what the plan says in Annex 9 on the placement of this type of plant. But in addition to this, there is another annex to the Waste Plan that refers to the treatment plants in Galicia for this type of waste, which are nineteen. And it speaks of the treatment capacity that these plants have, which is over 750,000 tons, and says that Galicia produces 120,000 tons annually. And it concludes that no more plants are needed for the treatment of this type of waste. If you produce 190,000 and you have a capacity for 750,000, why do you need more plants? I also tell you that eleven of those nineteen plants are curiously located in the province of Coruña. Therefore there must be no need for plants in this province; in no other way as far as the plan itself is concerned. Look, what you can't do is get profiled, slip the bulk, either the board or the Town Hall, everyone in their responsibilities. They have to act decisively, they have to act courageously, everyone within the scope of their competences, to refuse the placement of this industrial plant in Casalonga. The Town Hall with Urban Skills, the Union with Waste Management Skills. And if they really want to solve this issue, what you have to do is take over the networks, summon the Town Hall and the mayor of Teo, have a meeting and wake up a joint, common, coordinated strategy to give you a definitive folder on this issue. Because this project is gone. [[Applause]] It does not meet the minimum requirements laid down in the Galician Industrial Waste Plan, it does not comply with those requirements, in addition to the urban assessments referred to therein, and which justify that negative urban report by the Town Hall. So they don't extend a treatment that doesn't go anywhere, they end up worrying, the anguish that is suffering from the proximity of the Casalonga...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u362	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u363	...and his surroundings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u364	Thank you. You have the floor next to Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u365	Thank you, President. Counsellor, this is the first time that, fortunately, there are three groups, among them which support the Government where you are, which we are concerned about an environmental situation in our community, in particular about the waste to be installed in a particular place near housing and in this case also in rustic soil. Curiously, this time you say that you're also concerned and that you're going to follow strictly what makes the legislation. Worry isn't always the same, sometimes it doesn't. I'm going to give you another example: Baiona, golf course, there you weren't worried and the file was stopped for years until from the opposition groups and the neighbors mobilized to avoid their installation. Therefore, it is not true that you always act the same way, in the councils that you are interested in, when you are interested in, or when you are interested in the group that supports this government as well. You know that Galician Soil Law says in its Article 35: "The uses and activities eligible for rustic soil shall be as follows:" and in point (m) which is also referred to as waste treatment facilities, adds: "always they do not involve urbanization or urban transformation of the lands they run." And it may happen that if they involve you or don't involve you, and the Waste Management Plan picks up the word "preferably." Since drafting is as ambiguous as the law and the plan you have made, like your government, gives you the possibility of your options: your installation or not, which not only depends on the municipality, it also depends on the integrated environmental authorization, which is in your council. If you're worried, imagine how worried the neighbors of the Casalonga might be, much more because it's the ones who are going to live this project...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u366	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u367	...that it doesn't even have environmental restoration. Counselor, we are asking you to take into account what is said from Teo and that, please, you really care about this project and the others as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u368	Thank you. Then you have the floor for the reply to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u369	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, I'm sure the neighbors and neighbors of Teo would prefer a golf course to a agri-food waste plant like the one being projected into Teo. In any case, we thank you, Counselor, for the attitude of the Galician Council, for we know perfectly well that there was a meeting with the Director General, the Teo Municipal Government, all the municipal groups, the neighbouring and technical platform. The Galician Union has offered all the collaboration to the Teo Council. We hope that this reciprocity will happen on the other hand. Although Teo's mayor, who brought him there, was Mrs. Lidia Senra, and Mrs. Lidia Senra was more concerned in the European Parliament, because she had already reported to the European Commission that she was very concerned about the neighbours of Teo, about the project being installed there. Surprisingly, he is more concerned with the European Union than with this parliament. Why? I don't know. I went to a meeting that took place on May 31st at the San Martiño restaurant, where the Town Hall and the neighboring platform gave explanations as to how it was going. There was a neighbor who went out and said that by the law of the soil, precisely the one that was criticizing the Town Hall -- the Town Hall said that there was nothing we could do, we couldn't do anything because the Law of the soil prevents it -- and a neighbor went out and said: no, article 35.1.m) the Town Hall can make a report of urban incompatibility. They silenced that neighbor, they didn't like what that neighbor was saying, because he was saying in front of too many people that the Town Hall could do something. The Town Hall has in its hands a report of urban incompatibility. I think the neighbors will be more grateful if you make that report that you can give it a folder or that you immediately fulify this file and stop giving them so much paper material. And I'm sure they'd prefer that report to that claiming video they're making from the Teo Town Hall. Counsellor, we remain very concerned because we do not see that the Socialist Party has said here that its Socialist Conseil of the Teo Government will make that report...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u370	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u371	...or drive that urban incompatibility report. We're quite worried.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u372	The Environmental Adviser has the floor for the reply. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We'll hear the advisor's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u373	Thank you. To begin this second intervention, what I do have is to ensure that this council will not authorize any project, this or any other project, in the event that there is the least failure or the least irregularity in its processing. What I really want to move -- and that's the time that gives me -- is that the processing has to continue from the beginning to the end. I have to say this expressly: it is the responsibility of this board to make environmental assessments and process them, of course; it is our competition. I don't even stand up for this, Mr. Bará, nor am I running the bulk, nor much less. What happens is that your demand, and now the demand that seems to be the same from the Socialist Party, is recurrent. Every time there's a project they don't like -- I say they don't like it, not that it's not interesting -- the request is, "Joint of prevaric Galicia" and says no, "Joint of Galicia can't pass," "Joint of Galicia" grabs a folder; that is, prevaric. And I ask, what are you going to say to your formation at the Full Council of Teo, the Government of the Town Hall? [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] The same for Mrs. Vilán: Will you say the same thing to her socialist concierge, who has her here, indeed? will you say the same thing to her: prevarics, informs and is she? Is that the same thing you're going to say to her? We'll be waiting to see that's a reality. And the only thing he does, Mr Bará, and I have to remember him because it was you, besides, his group, it wasn't you expressly, what made the alarm of any project done. And I'm going to refer to the Lousame project, the Lousame dump. I had to answer your questions here, and a pleasant context. Mr. Rivas, yes, sir. And we're also talking about the fishing sector, as it can't be otherwise; we're talking about it. And indeed, someone was feeding because there was also a lot of social responses, and it was negative. And it's already unauthorized. Not under pressure, Mr Bará, not under pressure. Because there was an unfavorable environmental report that has to do with the sanitation of that project, not with pressure. I don't think you're telling me that here the Galician Union and the officials, who sign, sign according to the pressure. No, sir, no. That dossier is an example of sanitation which I am putting on in that dossier, in fact, we are dealing with environmental problems. Don't try to cheat and don't try to divert your attention. And, Mrs. Vilán, I believe that you, who seems besides a person would be in the process, if you ever have the responsibility to govern, will understand that all the procedure has to be taken, because this is guaranteed for that report, guarantees for processing and guarantees also for your resolution, and that there is absolutely a need for a report of the location of the plant, of the perception of water, of air, of cultural heritage. And all of this we have to do is yes or yes; see if I can explain it: yes or yes. The reports, which take their time, that the processing of an integrated environmental authorization takes a long time, have to finish. They'll end up like Lousame or not, but they have to finish. We have to collect all those reports in order to be able to make that assessment and more that report and that resolution. If there was a waste dump project in Santiago's square we would have to finish the project, we would have to finish the report completely. The only report that could close that file would be the report by the Town Hall of Santiago of urban incompatibility, the only one! If not, despite this obviousness, we would have to start the file and finish the file. So the most important thing: here has not come a report from the Teo Town Hall; here, of course, we offer to the Teo Town Hall all the collaboration you need in any matter with regard to this file. But indeed, if the Teo Council makes a report of urban incompatibility, this report is absolutely closed. And finally, when I say I understand the neighbors of Teo, I actually understand them. What I don't understand is that the opposition is alarming me even more. What I don't understand, and I don't think it's appropriate, is that if you're giving the floor from the opposition, you're not, afraid of all the neighbors. What we tell the neighbors is that we are going to treat them like everyone else, with particular concern for the fulfilment of the rigor and compliance with all matters of environmental legislation. That's the ultimate guarantee. And on the other hand, we'll be seeing and we'll be looking forward if, in fact, any other political formation that doesn't govern in the Council of Teo asks the Council of Teo to issue a report like that and give it a folder. Because that's the most important thing. And as far as I can see, BNG is going to do it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u374	Thank you, Mrs. Mato. Yes, what do you want the word for, Mr. Sánchez?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u375	On the basis of Article 76, because here there were inaccurate statements about this group. On two occasions Mrs Prado said that this group did not care about this subject and that she did not ask about it. And that's false, because this group has several initiatives on this subject, we share the concern and our opposition to this project, and we oppose this project to Santa Icía,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u376	Be understood, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u377	...the Coristanco, the Lousam, all the dumps, and not just those around Mrs. Prado's house. The People's Party in these few cases did not ask and do not ask for the mismanagement of Mrs. Environment with respect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u378	Mr. Sánchez, you have no word. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] What do you want the word for, Mrs. Prado? You were in the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u379	It was in question that I was asking only one question because it was close to my house, and that's absolutely false.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u380	Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u381	My honorability as a Member won't be questioned by anyone, because I'm worried about all the affairs of neighbors and neighbors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u382	It was explained, you were in the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u383	...where they are, and I don't take Europe that I don't bring to Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u384	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u385	Quiet, please. Question by Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the views of the Government of Greece regarding the adaptation of the so-called Public Transport Plan of Galicia to the needs of services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u386	Mr Fernández Fernández has the floor to put the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u387	Good afternoon to all and to all. Thank you, Madam President. The truth is, I thought I wasn't starting. At the end of April, public information was submitted to the base document called the Public Transport Plan of Galicia. A pretentious name, for it only includes a part of a single model, mode of transport. It does not contain a comprehensive and complete information about Galician mobility. Planning should set up basic issues for the design and launch of a new concessional map. The plan is a generic and indeterminate document that does not lead to a substantial improvement in the public services for inter-urban and inter-commercial transport of road travellers, exclusive competence of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. It sets very vague general patterns and, of course, questionable. What is necessary, and also questionable, is the usual non-compliance modus operandi of Mr. Feijóo's governments in transports of the legally established Law 10/2016 for the approval of the said Public Transport Plan of Galicia. In any case, Counsellor, the initial scheme of the plan is geared towards a cost savings, with the consequent limitation of services, without an increase in appropriations from autonomous budgets, and it is impossible without that increase in budget which achieves an improvement in these services. The proposed request for financial cooperation from other administrations merely gives rise to the leave of office in the council in a competition that is exclusive. Nor do we know that there is a necessary study on mobility needs in the territory. The plan also does not take into account the references and recommendations of the Territorial Management Guidelines, nor does it take into account the reality of the metropolitan areas, when they must have the competence over public transport that the plan collects for the territory that integrates them. Madam Counsellor, in short, the underlying problems of the plan are clearly manifested in what is a generic, indeterminate, imprecise plan, with horrifying absences, how to take into account the Land Management Guidelines and the reality of the metropolitan areas, and a clearly saving trend, spending less. Therefore, the Socialist Group asks the following question, taking into account all these shortcomings of the trend to savings: do you consider that the plan meets the service needs that are necessary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u388	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Mrs. Vivenda, Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u389	Thank you, President. Your Honor, as soon as I am glad that you bring this question to Parliament, the Galician Public Transport Plan, at some point because you know that in very little time, on 8 August, it will be a year that we set in motion the first phase of the Transport Plan. Just a year ago I was in this chamber, because I moved, reporting on the work we're doing. Yes, yes, of course, giving face and, of course, talking about the work we've done and what we're doing. And the truth is that he was appearing in this chamber in the middle of a transport strike, moving all the work, guaranteeing and explaining what I am still explaining, and saying that it was the only viable and legal alternative for Galicia not to be without transport, so that Galicia would not be without services and, worst of all, so that Galicia would not be without employment, without drivers; five hundred jobs were at risk as a result of giving up companies to the transport lines. And you got side by side with the companies; they didn't think about jobs, they didn't think about services. We worked so that Galicia wouldn't stay in a single day without transportation and also to keep the job, five hundred jobs that were at risk. That was our job after the resignations of nearly six hundred lines of certain transport companies. Titanic effort, Your Honor. We started that first phase, with a transparent bidding, much more transparent, and knows it, than it allows legislation, of course yes. Not one day did Galicia remain without transport, peace and security to the jobs of the sector and also providing greater territorial coverage. And, Your Honor, I fully disagree with the statements that you have made in your initiative and that you have doubled in your explanation now. Of course I disagree, nothing to do with reality. Are you against the guarantee of the transport service? Are you against us targeting investments with maximum social profitability? Are you against all this? I think it seems so. It's bad even for a grandpa to accompany his grandson to the bus and to catch the bus together, the grandfather to go to the health center next to the school. That doesn't seem to be efficiency and social profitability, so we're working and, of course, meeting the needs and interests of the Greeks. A transport plan that we want to be useful to citizens, sustainable from the point of view of the environment and, of course, viable from the economic point of view, for the future, Mr Fernández. We want to see the future of the Galician Transport Plan in Galicia. And we do the next phase with the learning experience, satisfactory experience, a positive balance, the data. The data are there: 4.8 million passengers in these ten months of the first phase of the Transport Plan. Therefore, positive increase in travellers of general use: 250,000 users per month of general use transport. So increase. So with all the learned we will continue with the next phase. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u390	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez. Mr. Fernández Fernández has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u391	Thank you, Counselor. The truth is, you're always optimistic. And I'm going to summarize it as the first phase of last year's plan ended. The first phase of the plan, Counsellor, ended with a continuing contribution of incapacity, inoperation, inefficiencies and lack of transparency, and, of course, a lack of ongoing dialogue, both with sectors and with municipalities, as well as with unions, with all. Look, there was only one positive contribution that we can draw conclusions, which was the last week before you started school, when you saw the water at the neck that Monday would not work the school transports, because neither the routes, nor the routes, nor the stops, nor the schedules would match the reality. Because the first phase of the plan was completely developed in Santiago. And it had to be the sector and the provincial transport services which in the last three days adjusted all schedules, all routes, all stops, so that school transport could start functioning effectively. And even when he started, during the next few days he had plenty of mayor calls, which he immediately sent to the companies for the company to provide him with the service that the mayor asked him for. Counsellor, if there has come to be some transport route, twenty-one kilometers away between the exit and the arrival, with eight stops, traveling along provincial, local and deputation routes, which had a route marked by those technical equipment that you hired in a time of 15 minutes. Twenty-one kilometers, eight stops by local, provincial and autonomous routes in fifteen minutes!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u392	Thank you, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u393	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u394	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. For the Government's reply, Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u395	Lack of dialogue, of course, which is false, and you know it. And, of course, that great wisdom that you have — I assure you that as a representative of the Board in Ourense — and sometimes I think more than a member of the Ourense province seems to be speaking also a representative of the employer. I have to tell you because it is true that with all the wisdom that you say when you ruled the Bipartite, that in 2007 you or you did not want to, or didn't know, or you didn't dare make a transport plan, that you were obliged because the European regulation has known since 2007. You do, Mr. Fernández, you do. Indeed 2007, and entered into force in 2009. And they didn't do anything, because it's easy not to do anything. That's the easy thing, the hard thing is to implement a plan, to implement a plan when there are business resignations, and you know that, with 10,000 stops, five thousand hours and eight hundred lines, that's what we did so that Galicia hadn't stayed a single day without transport. That wisdom of you has been summed up in four years and does nothing at all for transport. Or swing? The balance of the transport plan is positive, giving more coverage, reaching the bus where it didn't arrive. And we have clear examples, examples that before the bus didn't reach Riotorto and now arrives, the Carballeda de Valdeorras and now arrives, triple the number of stops so they can use users in general and lower the rates, which, of course, obviate it. And with the new shared transport system, with new modes of transport, the shared bus and the demand transport, seeking maximum social profitability. Don't you come here to talk about employers' profitability, which seems to be asking me more than social profitability. Social profitability or employer's profitability, Mr. Fernández? I tell you data: the shared bus; 100,000 people took advantage of these empty school bus squares in these ten months. So we've given them a more efficient and more sustainable alternative to mobility. That's also the transport on demand, with many lines of transport as well. It is therefore a public transport, endorsed by the users, — there are the figures — endorsed by the courts — which you know well — endorsed by the workers — that we have a state-of-the-art agreement; we have a state-of-the-art reference agreement, Mr Fernández, with the workers, of reference, that they say it in every forum in which they have occasion — and evaluated by the interests of other autonomous communities, who call us to ask what we do. We'll keep working with dialogue. And by the way, the Coruña Deputies talk a lot about and take pictures and talk about consortia, but when you have to work, within their competences, don't forget it, because the municipalities have competences in transport, the urban service, and the deputies must help the municipalities, especially the smaller ones; which I see you don't even share in helping small municipalities. So, working on useful transport for citizens, which is economically viable and also environmentally sustainable. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u396	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez. We continue with the accumulated debate of the questions in the tenth and eleventh place, of the Galician People's Group and of the Galician Nationalist Block, respectively. Question by Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and nine other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the evaluation of the Galician Union regarding the construction of the new space called Sunday Fontán in the complex of the City of Culture Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the announcement of the construction of the new Domingo Fontán building in the City of Culture, intended for the reception of the Galician Interuniversity Consortium and Agency for the Quality of the Galician University System, as well as a future European Centre for Research of Cultural Landscapes
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u397	To put the question, you have the floor, first of all, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u398	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Counsellor, just over a month ago, the German Government announced its decision to build a building, the Fontán building, in the complex of the City of Culture. In his public presentation last June 28th, the president of the board of Galicia, accompanied by the directors of the three Greek universities, unveiled the purposes and characteristics of this building. Counsellor, from this parliamentary group, we believe that this decision by the Government of Galicia is a courageous decision, which will involve at least two very important issues for Galicia and the city of Santiago de Compostela: the first one, culminating in the City of Culture of Galicia and the second one, strengthening the Greek university system, emphasizing and betting on the quality of university education, research and knowledge. Counsellor, we all know that for the opposition groups to the City of Culture is a project to be dejected. They did it from the very first moment, and they're probably going to pretend it as well now, according to the statements already issued. They did not understand this idea and this work, the product of its time, of a time of economic goodness, of a time of building cultural equipment, where architecture — the container itself — had as much weight as the content. But the sad thing is, they didn't understand that Galicia had and has the right to have a cultural projection beacon like the City of Culture. We have been denied and denied the opportunity for the Greeks and the Greeks to feel proud and proud of a work that was intended to be the vanguard of Galicia's cultural creation, exhibition and dissemination. I'm sure if the City of Culture was in Barcelona would be a model of cultural management, an example to follow, but it's in Santiago. And the reductionist myopia made the project have had fierce opposition from the opposition since the beginning of time. Even when the opposition was Government in Galician Union, the City of Culture suffered internal opposition from the Bipartisan Government, who, by the way, was the one who started the two works of the buildings that were then approved by the People's Government in 2011. The management of the complex by the Bipartite is reduced to spending two hundred and forty thousand euros to see if his name was changed, and we see no, they were unable. And now, Counselor, I hope this time the opposition is on the side of the Government, because with this building and its purposes a new stage and a new dimension is opened for the City of Culture project. That's why we want you to comment on this chamber today on the assessment of the Government of Galicia on the Fontán building in the City of Culture of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u399	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. You have the floor to ask the question, too, Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u400	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor, and good afternoon to all too. By taking a little bit of the thread that Mrs Antón was now leaving, rather than asking the opposition forces or the Galician Nationalist Block to put us on the side of the Government, you as a Member of this House should ask for explanations, as we are now going to do, to the Counsellor, for the ultimate failure of a parliamentary agreement signed on this chamber in March 2013. [[Applause]] In March 2013 the plenary of this parliament approved, on a proposal from the Nationalist Block Galego, permanently paralyzing the pending buildings of construction in the City of Culture. A measure that was indispensable; indispensable to end the spending, with the most absolute waste of this infrastructure, which was not proper for a time, was owned by delusions of greatness, which are scattered not only in our country but by many other cities in Spanish territory, and in which more than 300 million euros were buried. The president of the Union himself at that time said — and I repeat: March 2013 — "While I am president, these buildings will not be done." Five years later, we assume that you gave Gaiás the air — that there is sale, sales — now you have announced — as Mrs Anton explained — that you will build a new building to accommodate university bodies and that you will spend 17 million more public euros on that project. To evaluate the dimension, just a comparison, because sometimes things have to be seen in relative terms, let's make a brief comparison. The Fontán Building will cost 17 million euros public. Remember, Mr. Rodríguez, how much did you invest in Galician Board in 2018 in scholarships for university students? Three million euros. Do you know how much they invest in language policy? Seven million euros. It's a matter of priorities. To the BNG, counselor, and we make it clear on many occasions, and today too, 17 million euros more in the City of Culture seem to us an absolute dislate. And we go back to the old practices beyond the People's Party: to do everything, beyond all, with absolute darkness. Because we hear it again here now, and we hear it on a couple of occasions to the president of the board, and tell us that we're going to save, but no report or study is coming up and none of us are enjoying that supposed savings. If you have it, send it back to the House. The minimum would be, Mr Counsellor, that they had come here, since they decided to breach a plenary agreement of the Galician Parliament, that they had come to explain what are the supposed reasons they come to justify the passing of an agreement by this chamber by -- I mean -- arch of triumph, but it's actually by that Mount Gaiás. What we want today is that we are given explanations in this chamber. I insist that it was not of its own time, but of the delusions of the greatness of Fraga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u401	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u402	Thank you very much. They have to forgive, but I deny the greatest. You base all your argument on a true lie and a sense of reason. You base your explanation that there is a breach of a Parliamentary Agreement of the year 2013 of this parliament. I will literally read out what this agreement says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to immediately initiate the necessary procedures to bring about the definitive closure of the two buildings pending to be built in the City of Culture." That is, of the two buildings that were programmed in the initial project of the City of Culture, which is the Opera Theatre and the International Art Center. You're trying to find an excuse to base your lie. And the truth is, you're a member of a political party that ruled the City of Culture for quite a long time, four years, and you'll know it was the historical period of the largest percentage of economic transfers to the City of Culture. But, of course, the BNG speaks of the fair as the second one goes to it. When he was a government he stood up for the project in a significant way, he even took him to New York, as a presentation of the Welsh intelligence and modernity represented by the present Council of Galicia. But before that period, and after that period, it's the "bitch" for you. And also -- I'm sorry, Mrs. Rodil -- demagogy has short legs. You know that budget you're considering is a four-year budget, and you know that university scholarships are the responsibility of the state, and what it does to Junta with that three million percent is to cover scholarships of "unpredicted". With which you don't try to make a remittance here — allow me the expression — to try to justify your argument, which — I insist — falls by its own weight, when its main argument is false, because it doesn't correspond to reality. He said that this agreement of 23 March 2013 had a continuity. In February 2014, shortly thereafter, the board of Galicia, through the Board of Trustees, adopted the final non-construction agreement of the buildings that were then planned. The Fontán building is a different building, absolutely different from the two that were paralyzed, which, by the way, were they so dispensation, if they were so horrible, if they were so barbarity, I wonder why the BNG didn't do it when they were managing the City of Culture. You could have done it, because simply you would have to cancel or negotiate contracts, compensation for contracts, nothing else, but they didn't. By the way, this government did, and it did without having to compensate the builders. And I'll give you a reason why the Fontán building. There were two needs, and of two needs we made a virtue. What were the two needs? Well, one need was the interest that existed and there was because an inter-university building was set up, which favors cooperation between universities and which can be used to accommodate, if necessary, services like those that are going to be located there. On the other hand, we also had a space to half build, which you will agree with me that obviously it was necessary to act on it, because obviously within the construction complex what was as it was because we said it was necessary to do an intervention. And in that sense a reasoning was put in place, and we came to the conclusion that the Fontán building, as it is proposed, was a double chance. A double chance because, on the one hand, it enables an integration of the university system, it allows to strengthen interuniversity cooperation by the services that will be developed there: cooperation services, interuniversity research; and on the other hand, it also allows to conclude an unfinished space that was within a large architectural complex, which is increasingly a cultural complex and that citizenship, both in Compostela and in Galicia, is internalizing it as something of its own. And that's something we obviously all perceive. There are three services, some new ones: the Consortium -- I'm not going to explain what it is, because it's known -- cultural landscapes, where they're going to concentrate the research talent and research resources of the three Greek universities, focused on something so important for the development of the Greek and our agency and our identity, such as the landscape, the cultural heritage and the Way of Santiago; and, on the other hand, also the ACSUG, which has a relevant role, as you know perfectly well, in what evaluation is within what it has to do with university activity. And we came to this reflection after a study of economic viability and also of operational viability. A building that serves three universities, seven campuses, which has to be central, but which doesn't have to be on any campuses, so you don't understand it's one. And, on the other hand, from an economic point of view, we seemed very profitable and very logical, very careful, to carry out an action that allows us to reuse and save a huge amount of public resources, because our Fontán building that we are proposing, which actually has a cost around seventeen million, but if we build it again we would have a cost around thirty million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u403	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. For the reply you have the word, first of all, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u404	Thank you, President. Yes, indeed, Counsellor, we see that nothing has changed: Mrs Rodil picks up the faithful witness of her ancestors from the Nationalist Block of Galicia and continues with a 20-year speech there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u405	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u406	If by the BNG he was, Master Matthew himself could not make the portico of Gloria, because such lofty work of art, Mrs. Rodil, for you is too good for a city of Santiago de Compostela dimension, it is too good for a country like Galicia. This is your problem, this is the problem of the Galego Nationalist Block, which shows an excessive paternalism about the wishes of the Greek people, as if it judges him unable to decide for himself. But, ladies and gentlemen, the German people decided three times, and decided in favour of the People's Party, and decided in favour of the People's Party's decisions. And he decided that in 2011 the most appropriate one was to paralyze the two buildings, and he decided that in 2018 the most appropriate one was to continue with the completion of the City of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u407	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u408	You use — as the counselor has already reminded you — that agreement of this camera in 2013, but reality is substantially different. Counsellor, you have no doubt that Galicia and Santiago will understand that this building is a reality on the horizon of 2020-2021, because the benefits it entails will dispel the doubts about its investment. A benefit for the city of Santiago, because it implies having completed a work like the City of Culture, which increases and strengthens the cultural character of Compostela. It's a benefit for Galicia, because it's a complex that I've been able to adapt to the avatars of the different moments that touched him to live from his conception to now. And some benefits for the future of our country's boys and girls, because they're going to see the Greek university system backed up. I'm done making my own the words of Rector Reigosa, just in his presentation, who said, "The Fontán building is good for the whole system, for the three universities, and of course it's good for the citizens. Cooperation brings much more benefits than competition." Let political discrepancies, Counselor, not rob us of this project. And I'd like you to have in your reply a little more on that Cultural Landscapes Research Center. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u409	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Mrs. Rodil Fernández now speaks for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u410	Thank you again, President. I like you to ask me that question, Mr. Counselor, about the Bipartite, that "bitch" so many times haunted by the Bipartite. And since you decided to flash back and look back, I don't know why you stopped there. We're going a little further, nothing more than a few months ago, and I'm sure there are a lot of people, you're the first, who remember much better than me in 2005. I'll put all your lordships in a bit of a position: Government of the People's Party. Manuel Fraga Iribarne, that gentleman who had been ex-Minister of Franco—to place them a little more—, President of the Board. The number two and strong man already at the time of that government was the current president of the Union, Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo. A government in function, because the People's Party had lost the absolute majority in this chamber, and you were before you went out the door by adjuncting the concessions to the builders of those works to which you refer. [[Applause]] At the same time they were also granting the centres that secrete the student by sex. They left everything tied up and tied well before they left. And not only to shield the interests of the construction companies that many had -- and now I give you some data that we knew too at that time -- but, above all, to shield the grandeur delusions of a President of the Union, Mr. Fraga Iribarne, who mortgaged this country for many years, and we are seeing it now. We're still paying for it now. [[Applause]] And do you know why I told you it was a dispensation, why do I tell you it was an absolute dispensation? This chamber was well hosted by a parliamentary commission of inquiry of what happened in that City of Culture. But do you know what this parliamentary investigation commission was? From a report by the Board of Auditors of 2004, in which it was pointed out — and with this overdue — that the People's Party's Union gave up its responsibilities in prudent and planned management of public funds, by uncontrolled contracts and spending, temporary deviations of more than half a decade and an average cost of two hundred percent, and in some works of the City of Culture of up to five hundred percent. The Greek people can't continue to pay for the delusions of greatness of Fraga so many years later. Stop this work and tell us if there are no more economic possibilities to accommodate those bodies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u411	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Government's reply, the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u412	But, Mrs. Rodil, look forward, look at the future, look at the future, look at the future. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u413	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u414	And I'll tell you why. Look forward. You all get upset when we remind you that the Bipartite, who could stop that and he didn't, who could stop and didn't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u415	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u416	They're completely angry. And they keep talking and looking back. Look to the future. Because this government when it decided to make the Fontán building looks to the future. You'd rather make politics by looking back. [[Laughter]] And if the Fontán was certainly a dispensation, they had a great opportunity not to transfer the supermillionaire economic quantities they transferred. And that's going to be in your coherence, your annals and your history, because it was this government, in 2013, that led to the paralysis of the two buildings that you quote. And I repeat: the Fontán building is absolutely different, with which we radically deny the greatest, that there is no violation of the parliamentary mandate. But, as I said, this project comes through a previous reflection, where we try to see two problems, two needs, and we look for a solution. You're talking about economic issues. The budget is 17 million for four years. If you wanted to build a similar building for a similar purpose and with similar architectural characteristics, we would be talking — at the prices they say, so they say schools and without any problem — about thirty million euros. So we make an interuniversity building in the City of Culture, with a research theme that has a great deal to do with the contents that can be developed in the City of Culture, which can be a content provider for the City of Culture itself, in a well-communicated space -- it's working on AP-9 access -- in a space that has all the urban services, in a central space within Galicia. And besides that, we're building and consolidating a pre-existing situation or structure, which obviously any government would have to fix. And just fix it -- look! -- it would cost around 10 million euros, if we calculated the cost of what was done and the cost of destroying what was done and it was half done. With this I believe that the location of the Fontán is certainly strategic. And I understand that you have regrets, to some extent because you didn't do what you would have liked to do, but you didn't dare. It's true, too. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm also going to tell you that this is done with a very planned character. And look, we want to use an unfinished structure, we want to get a social performance from that structure, we want to save public resources and give a new service. Cipac, who said the honourable Member of the People's Party, is going to be a reference research centre, where researchers from all the Greek universities, in these fields of knowledge, will be able to do research at the highest level. The system has many very good research centers in the field of science, in the field of medicine, but there was this deficit in the university system and the research system, and it's going to cover. Besides, it's going to be covered and it's going to meet the roadmap that I personally set up here in March 2017 for the City of Culture. At that moment -- and I want to remind you -- we said that we had a goal: to get Galicia's performance out of an architectural complex that existed, and that a responsible government had to take it out. And we said three things: We said we were going to move forward in the enlargement of the Galician Forest. The second phase has just opened it to the public. By the way, a space that has a lot of use by many citizens, to do sports, to walk, etc. We said we were going to face the landscape integration of the unbuilt central space, that big gap that exists between the library and the museum, and we're intervening. By the way, the zero cost. At zero cost we're turning that space into a social use space, with an amphitheater around five squares. And a great forest also with Atlantic species. And we said we were going to define a plan of uses for the structure of unfinished space. And the Fontán is precisely a building or a project that comes in some way to make the end of that structure, because throwing it away would be absolutely irrational. And all of this, above all, is making it possible to have a good project for this space. A good project that will allow once it's in progress... we tell, if the deadlines go well, in the month that's up to the auction, to start the works before the end of 2018, to have finished the structure by 2020, and by 2021, to the Jacob, which is already in full operation. It's going to be a building that has an interuniversity but also social use, because it's going to have a small auditorium to give a lot of service. That service is needed in the City of Culture. And that auditorium will allow you to self-manage or self-finance some of the operating costs, because, on the one hand, there's an important savings for the Board, but it's also going to make it possible to have a series of revenue on the other hand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u417	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u418	I mean, in the end, Your Honor, as I said, we had two needs, and of these two needs we did a virtue. And we understand that Fontán is a great opportunity for an architectural fence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u419	You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u420	...for culture, for university and, by extension, for Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u421	Thank you. Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, from G.P. in Marea, on the deadline laid down by the Government of Greece to meet the wage demands of the Greek teacher, so that at least they recover the sixth place in the state wage table
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u422	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u423	Thank you, President. Mr. Counsellor, may I begin with a very simple question that is very easy to answer: why insists the Council of Education on ignoring the demands of the German teaching staff? why does it forgets its obligation to treat properly the people we entrust to our children's education, do teachers and teachers in Greece have less rights in other parts of the state? or are they less entitled to meet their demands than other bodies of officials in this country? The question is this simple, because, as you know, the Education Council refuses to take on the demands of the teaching unions, who jump to regain the economic rights that they have taken them away in the years of the scam crisis: salary loss, increase in the educational burden, drop in the classes. Finally, cuts, cuts and cuts — the People's Party brand — loss of quality, theft of our rights. Swindler, I was saying. She's been cheating, because her government has been repeating for two years that the crisis has already happened, that the time of the cuts has passed, and now we're on the path to recovery. But, of course, recovery for whom? Only for a few chosen ones, so you can see! And it's not a matter of opinion, today we're talking about facts, black about white. And look: for this we must look back a little. Last May 9, in which this parliamentary group brought a non-law proposition to this chamber, in which we tried to collect the demands of the main teaching trade union organizations, who asked for the opening of a negotiation for salary approval two months ago... I insist: 9 May. It's interesting to remember that because on that day the People's Party, as always and in the face of opposition initiatives, voted that no, voted against. Don't sit down and talk, no. And look: five days later, only five days later, the 14th of May, they called a sectoral table to, oh, surprise!, exactly what our proposal said: sit down and negotiate pay approval. Wonderful coincidences in politics, and, of course, welcome correction! even if they don't recognize it and even if it's late. Welcome! Because, as I told you, we've only been trying to bring the voice of the unions that you insisted on ignoring. The facts, Counsellor, show that you are always mocking the opposition, as if you are mocking the trade union organizations, to whom you have been invited to a negotiation that has never been such, because instead of a negotiation of good faith, as indicated by the labour legislation on negotiation, the Council has come to play a role in negotiating with ridiculous monetary proposals and too long in times, proposals that they knew perfectly that they were truly inexorable, which are evidence of the lack of interest that they have to regain the rights of the entire teaching staff. That's why the question is very simple: when does the Government plan to meet the wages demands of the Greek teacher, so that at least it recovers the sixth place in the state wage table, which you had before you started stealing it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u424	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. The Government has the floor of the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u425	Thank you very much. I suppose, Mrs Chao, that talking about stealing from teachers will do so from the point of view of political rhetoric, I suppose. But, in any case, there are a number of issues that we can't accept at any time. And one of them is to say that in recent years there has been a loss of quality in the education system. I think that's radically false. And that somehow proves that you come here with a serious speech, and that you don't care, he says it because it's in his desk and nothing else. You should evaluate, see the dynamics of the education system in recent years, both at the level of results and at the level of equal opportunities generation, at the level of quality and equity. You're supposed to be surprised at some statement I'm going to tell you. For example, Galicia is the autonomous community and educational territory that has the highest educational equity in Spain, and the best in Europe, at the highest level from the point of view compared with the Nordic or similar countries. I should also know that the reduction in school failure in recent years has been very high. Or you should know the latest results of the PISA report, where skills and educational capacities are measured. With which you can't speak in any case of loss of quality, in no case, because it's a radical lie. Just like talking about clippings. Obviously, in recent years there has been a general alcist increase. Yes, it is true that in the most difficult years of the economic crisis, enormous efforts have been made; the whole society has done so, and the very professionals of education as well. And they were asked to all administrations, starting with the Socialist State Administration, and at the time they told the public employees that, to understand us, they had to assume a wage reduction. You should know that in 2010 it was the biggest salary drop for teachers, for public employees in general, but for teachers as well, of course. And, obviously, there are some words that have to be used or which should be in the DNA or the dictionary of politicians, at least in this bench, and in this government they are, which are credibility, coherence and responsibility. Why do I say that? Because at that moment when it was necessary to make those difficult, very difficult decisions, it was also said that when the situation was better it would recover and make the same effort to try to compensate for the efforts requested at that time. And this government is doing it, and the People's Party when it was in the government of the state has done it, because that is also the result of responsibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u426	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u427	...and it's also the fruit of an economic circumstance that has made it possible to abandon the crisis figures and move on to a recovery...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u428	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u429	...which must feel necessarily also in public employees, and of course also in teachers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u430	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Chao Pérez has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u431	You've missed your honorability list, but, well, we know why it will be. Done, Counselor, facts, and less cheap chatter. The facts are what they are, I told them before. You pretended you wanted to negotiate, pretended because the Council was starting out of proposals that were clearly inescapable to the unions, which were inescapable because they were unfair. They didn't want to materialize a decent salary salary, nor to recover the theft, mainly the extra payments from 2013 to 2016, nor to eliminate the discount on sick leave, nor a long et cetera. And look: the claims they had on the table, of which they didn't want to talk, are very clear: On the one hand, the corner. We were talking about the recovery of wage rights; that is why we need to talk about fair wage amounts, which allow the Greek teacher to return to his position in the sixth place of the State at a pay level. It wasn't a whim, it wasn't an invention; that was the place that had already been reached in the 2003 and 2006 agreements. Sixth place for all bodies in any age, not for a few chosen. Sixth place and not the twelfth place, which is what you have in your existence. Congratulations! And on the other hand, let's talk about when. The application of wage increases cannot be sine die, should be equated with other bodies of officials, i.e. to end at the maximum by 2020. Just as it was the agreement reached in Justice or the proposal on the health table. I mean, Counsellor, why aren't teaching staff good enough for Justice or Health officials? You don't want to do it, you don't care or you just can't? Or do you have no capacity to influence the decisions of the Galician Union? Unfortunately, that seems to be the reason. Unfortunately it seems that your counseling has so little weight, you as advisor have so little weight in the Greek Government, which is unable to defend as it is due to the workers and workers of the Greek teaching. It's fair, and it's his duty too. Admit it, and leave the farce, or do the opposite. They unlock negotiations, feel to negotiate and fulfill the words of the president of Galicia's own board when he said that Galician teachers would be in their sixth place. It's time!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u432	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. For the Government's reply, Mr. Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u433	Mrs. Chao, in no case is the negotiation open by the Council and the Council of Galicia a paripé or is a paripé, nor do we run away or pretend anything at all. There were a series of sectoral tables beginning at a starting point by the Council, by the administration, and other starting points by trade union organizations. And we've been negotiating, we've been talking, we've been consensual and we've come up with postures. You assume that the negotiation is over; you give it of course, gives the feeling. And I think there are things that can't be given of course so cheerfully, because it can take a surprise. And look: our negotiation was absolutely loyal. We were the first autonomous community to start a negotiation to make a salary increase for the teacher, the first, the first and until the moment alone, and with an agreement put forward and quite similar to the line of work that was held in 2003 and 2006, to move through an intermediate situation, depending on the teacher's picture, to a situation around five, the sixth, depending also on the teacher's framework, let's say primary, secondary, FP, etc. You give of course something that's not true, of course it's absolutely all closed. And I say no. I mean, we're still open to work, we're looking at a moment of reflection, where there's an offer on the board of administration, an offer that makes it possible to reach the goals that you say. And we're somehow waiting to be able to resume all these negotiations at any time. I think you're out of bounds. And we want and we have the hope of continuing to regain dialogue, because that is very positive. And why is it positive? Because it will allow you to fulfill what we are talking about, which is to recover some of the lost at the moment and allow the Greek teacher to be at the level that is usually: around six, the seven, the five, depends on the category of the teacher. It certainly surprises you too when you come here to talk about you being the voice of a union. I think you must be the voice of the Greeks, not just of a union; the unions, fortunately, defend themselves very well by themselves. And I think what we have to do here is to be aware that wage claims are very important. We are tremendously sensitive, we are aware that it is positive to some extent to be able to increase the wage level and professional prestige of the teaching staff, and we are doing so in many respects. You think we are the autonomous community with a lower rate of internals in Spain and we have a process of opposition, which is being celebrated these days, of more than 2,000 places to stabilize the teacher. With which, Mrs Chao, we can't admit, with all due respect and with all affection, that you say we want to denigrate the teacher, because the teacher is the key to the education system, and it's key to what you deny...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u434	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u435	...is the key to the comprehensive improvement that the education system in Galicia has had in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u436	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the Sergas check someone improves in the times of attention and in the forecast of stroke clinical paintings since the launch of the information campaign on the signs of the occurrence of that disease
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u437	To put the question, Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u438	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The stroke is a medical picture that is produced from different pathologies and which represents a very important cause of death, including serious physical and psychic sequelae. In Galicia, the Plan ictus was launched in 2016, which was taking place since 2009, and within the framework of it, an axis was included to achieve the rapid detection of this disease, to lose fundamental to the survival and reduction of the number and severity of sequelae. To raise awareness and inform citizens, an advertising campaign was designed based on the three ephes: speaking, force and face, in which the most common signs of the process were transmitted to the citizen. You can't say simply or correctly simple words, you can't raise your arms at the same height for ten seconds or you can't be smiling by showing all the teeth are easy signs to perceive and must serve as an alert to get in touch with 061, which completes the interrogation and, if necessary, sends means to shift to the hospital. Advances in the urgent treatment of stroke, fibrinolysis and mechanical thrombectomy, which are effective up to twenty-four hours after the acute episode, give an essential importance to the immediacy of treatment, so we think this campaign should have produced positive results in improving attention to this process. Mr. Counsellor, we would like to ask you: Have Sergas seen the improvement in times of attention and in the forecast of stroke clinical paintings since the launch of the information campaign on the signs of the occurrence of this disease? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u439	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. The Health Counsellor has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u440	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. In Galicia, according to data from the Spanish Society of Neurology, it produces around seven thousand new cases of stroke each year; a very important problem. But in addition to the number, we can say that cerebrovascular disease has great relevance to our society; its impact on the family's breast, in the professional, labor and social field is enormous. That's why we consider ischemic stroke as a priority health problem. For these reasons, we have developed the Greek Ictus Care Plan, now presented — as you said — two years ago — that had a start — and I want to highlight it and point it out here — a few years earlier as a pilot in the Santiago Clinic, and led by unfortunately late Dr. Miguel Blanco, a person not only at the personal level but at the professional level of the highest levels we had in our Galician Health Service. That's why I want to remember him too. And you will remember that a year ago I also informed this parliament about the first twelve months of this plan. To meet the goal, the three stroke units were created in CHUS, CHUAC and Cunqueiro Alvaro, understood as specific units of acute care, and in which interventional neurology services with the ability to perform mechanical thrombectomy exist. Thus, we also set in motion, complementing the three stroke units, six stroke teams at the Ferrol Complex, at the HULA de Lugo, in Ourense, at the Pontevedra Complex, at the Marine Hospital and in Povervisa, consisting of an interdisciplinary group of specialists coordinated by a neurologist or other expert specialist in stroke who collaborates in the diagnosis and treatment of the patient with stroke. Professionals were also trained so that in the emergency services of all hospitals, also in the comarcas, they have the ability to perform intravenous fibrinolysis. And, very important, the Ictus Care Center, the CAI, has been set up as the coordination unit of the plan. And for the first time, a person, a neurologist, coordinates every day everything that has to do with the stroke. And, of course, 061, not only with the aid call, but also with the availability of transport services throughout the territory. According to the data obtained from the launch of the Plan galego de ictus in 2016 until June 2018, that is, until a few days ago, the number of interconsultations carried out by the physicians responsible for the patients at this facility is 1,426 consultations; this is an average of fifty-nine intersultations per month. The hospitals that most resort to CAI are the comarcal hospitals. This is a sample of the effectiveness of CAI...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u441	Thank you, Mr Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u442	...and the most beneficial people are the patients who live further away.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u443	Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u444	Thank you, Counselor, for the extensive information you have conveyed to us. The stroke represents, as you have just stated, an important health problem, both because of their mortality and because of the severity of the sequelae, with repercussions, indeed, for families, as well as labor and social. This therapeutic window, these hours that allow to act to reduce the severity of complications, acting on brain infarction to avoid irreversible damage, can increase if society knows the symptoms of disease and accelerates the call times to 061 to achieve health care. You explained to us how the network of stroke units in Galicia works, the progress of treatment since the appearance of mechanical thrombectomy and fibrinolysis, the set-up of stroke teams in six hospitals and the formation of emergency professionals from all the Greek hospitals. In fact, this whole device coordinated by the Ictus Care Center. We positively value the health transport service, the care protocols for this disease and the advances in telemedicine. And from the People's Parliamentary Group, we think that the data you presented today and that you haven't finished telling us are absolutely positive. We'd like the ictus figures to decrease based on the improvement of life habits and control of risk factors leading to the emergence of this serious painting. But once the disease appears, it is acting in Galicia with standards of quality that we must highlight. I wanted to thank from here for the work of all the professionals involved in the attention of the stroke, which allows the results that you, Counselor, have just made public over the past two years. And we wait for this group to complete the data in its second intervention. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u445	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. The health counsellor has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u446	Thank you very much. Yes, the truth is, the data is very positive. The campaign is showing us that 061 is fundamental to being much faster and, logically — as it says — treatment is time-dependent; so the importance is so important. The number of transfers was one hundred seventy-eight in the last year, which we're talking about an increase of more than fifty percent over the previous year -- an important data indicating the growth of what we're talking about. And also, the activation of this ictus code, in total numbers, is 5,235, but over the first year there was an increase of thirty percent. So, we're short-lived, we're making more people come to hospitals in a time we can handle. And the mechanical thrombectomy, which is fundamental because they don't leave the sequelae of the disease, was two hundred sixty. This is a very important step forward for all the Greeks. And, of course — as we say from the very first moment — what we are dealing with in this project is things that are the medicine of the 21st century, which is first of all the coordination among all the specialists involved, to form the population so that they can go as quickly as possible to the health support they have closer to and the overspecialization for those much more complex techniques, such as thrombectomy, which essentially avoids both high mortality and mortality. So let's keep working around. As I say, to get to the detail in the records we already have data, although very initial, because we have to collect the data from the watch, from the aid chain, of screening, of several computer applications that will allow us to give each of the steps we want to measure, which are several and complex. From the call to 061 to the mobilization of ambulances for the transfer, the arrival of emergencies, the choice, the realization of the TAC, also very important, the call to CAI — central to coordinate — the moment of fibrinolysis and the final moment, which is thrombectomy, when it can be done. The first advances and the first times begin to indicate — as I say — that we are going in the right direction; we are going to have an analysis already in depth in a few months of those times, that they will also make the commission that governs and monitors all this action take improvement measures of all the procedures — as has already been done in the planning, in the acute myocardial infarction, which is our predecessor — and that, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u447	Thank you, Mr Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u448	...makes a better accessibility and a better fairness for all patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-11-DSPG079.u449	And when there's no more business to deal with, we're done here.
