ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u1	Start the session. She has justified the in attendance of Mrs Magdalena Barahona Martín. Before we get on the agenda, I ask you to keep a minute of silence in memory of Mr. Carlos López Crespo, Member of the Galician Parliament, our colleague. [[The members of the House and the Bureau of Parliament, as well as the invited audience, keep a minute of silence standing in the memory of Mr López Crespo.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the whole House.]] And now if we go into the agenda with the first point, of appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Adviser on Environment and Territory Planning, on his own request, to take account of his policy on circular economy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u2	The Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser has the floor to make his appearance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u3	Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. I now turn again to this Parliament to take account of the policy that since this board, the Environmental Council, we are developing in the iodine of the circular economy and in the iodine of efficient waste management. So I'm going to talk about what we've been developing in this legislation so far and the steps we're going to take forward in the future, which we're going to take to the start of that model. The firm commitment of the Galician Union is to take that definitive step towards a circular economy in our community. A model that prioritizes return, which prioritizes the renewal and efficient use of resources. Its objective is, on the one hand, to maintain the economic value of products and materials and resources as long as possible, and on the other hand to minimize waste generation, thus imitating that cyclical model of nature, in which materials are used to create a product that will be incorporated again into the production process. The future goes through converting waste into resources for two fundamental reasons: the first is because it generates environmental and social benefits, and the second is because it is also driving new business opportunities and therefore also from a strong source of economic growth. We want to overcome that model — which is already expired — of that linear scheme of extraction, manufacture, consumption and removal, and move forward towards a model that is based on the production of goods and services in a sustainable way, reducing consumption and also time, energy sources and waste. Thanks to this model of circular economy, the value of products and components remains the largest time within the economy, creating value. So it's a model that involves job creation, that promotes innovation, that provides competitive advantages and that brings protection to people and also to the environment. We are aware that in Galicia this model has a journey and a huge potential. Europe is moving forward in this way through the path of the circular economy, so we believe that Galicia should not stay behind. It is the European Union itself, which today estimates that in the 2030 Horizon, the savings potential derived from this model change towards the circular economy is 600 billion euros. If we moved this number into our context, that is, extrapolating it to our community, Galicia, it would represent around a saving of two billion euros. Europe's targets in waste management set a limit of 10% to send to the dump — we're talking about 2020 — and we're working on that line. At present in Galicia we are close to 30.6%, still far from that objective that marks the European Union. But it is true that it is far below the state average, which is around 56.8%; that is, 56.8% of the waste is sent to the dump in our country. We're approaching the European average of the twenty-eight, sending around twenty-five percent to the dump site. In material valuation, that is, in recycling and also composting, we're almost twenty percent. A percentage we're working on to significantly increase the measures that are already being developed today, for example, on the Sogama plant. And we're going to step by step by progressively reducing what we send to the dump, betting on measures that affect the valorization of materials. In view of all these advantages that this new system entails, the Council has challenged the commitment to implement this model of circular economy in Galicia. It's a work that is framed within our fight against climate change and its effects. We've already started this path towards the circular economy and we're taking important steps. Among them, we're working on what the Welsh circular economy strategy is going to be, which is currently being drafted, and we're also finalizing the Welsh climate change and energy strategy 2050. In it we will set out the lines of action that we have to take in the longer term in the fight against climate change. And it will also focus on creating an efficient, sustainable and low-carbon economy. With the development of these two strategies, our goal is to promote informed consumption, responsible consumption and progress in the implementation of the circular economy in Galicia. All this work is done because we are convinced that at the same time it generates a set of environmental and social benefits, the circular economy is a driving force for new business opportunities and a source of economic growth. And we know that this model has a great deal to go forward in our community and a huge potential in many areas, such as the field of waste of construction and demolition, the field of recycling of oil derived from housing and housing, in the steel-producing industry — a model in Spain for the use of poor resources — and also in the industry as prosperous in Galicia as that of textiles, which consumes large amounts of resources. All these efforts have helped us to lead, along with Valencia and Catalonia, the Working Group on Circular Economy in European Funds of the MAPAMA Environmental Authorities Network. This group is responsible for agreeing on possible means of financing projects or the instrumentation of the circular economy with funds from the European Union. Recently, he has just completed the first phase of this working group, in which Galicia played an active and driving role. The conclusions were presented at a plenary meeting held in Seville, and they will be the ones that feel the foundations to be incorporated into the next programming period of European funds. But work is not over here, and now the formula is being studied to continue working on this path. Even today the Director General of Environmental Quality is in Madrid participating in the inauguration of the Advisory Council of the Circular Economic Observatory. This direction, together with the Ministry's General Directorate for Climate Change, advises the committee, which will be what the Club of Excellence in Sustainability will lead which analyses the public-private role in the issue of the circular economy. With the fundamental objective of moving Galicia towards that model of circular economy, always following European recommendations, we set ourselves as a goal to equip Galicia with its own circular strategy. And what we want is to adapt Europe's proposal to our singularity, economic, social, natural, productive and energetic peculiarity; that is, to make it our own. And achieving this ambitious goal will require the long-term commitment of all our societies, because what we are looking for is a change of system, in order to think and act. And it's that the circular economy involves rethinking, reducing, redesigning, reusing, repairing, recycling and recovering; betting on that multi-ergeous criterion, changing everything, and that's what we're working on. Currently the circular economy strategy of Galicia 2018-2030 is in the process of drafting. A job that is responsible for the best; in this case a job that is currently developing the three Greek universities. We're moving forward in their design, and we're working with them to make this strategy a reality before it ends this year. This strategy will promote energy efficiency and resource optimization, as well as the conservation of waste and new raw materials, in order to prolong the vital cycle of products. At the same time -- and as I've already said -- we're finishing up the Welsh strategy of climate change and energy 2050, where we've been working since last June, and with which Galicia will contribute to the objectives marked by the Paris Agreement. It will be the planning tool of our community in this matter, and its content will set out broad lines of action in the fight against climate change, followed not only by the Unity of Galicia. It will define our way of producing and consuming, taking into account the commitment to continue investing in renewable energies, to continue to bet on energy efficiency and to continue to support hypocarbonic production technologies. For its elaboration there are already six work tables focused on energy, on mobility, on territory, on the marine environment, on agricultural-forest-gander and on biodiversity, with the objective of bringing up a multidisciplinary vision and offering different perspectives on this phenomenon. These tables, since June, have already done an intense work, which is beginning to see its fruits. In fact, tomorrow we will present the results of these working groups. These results will be the basis of the draft strategy, from which we expect to have the final document also before the end of the year. The strategy of climate change is part of what will be the Galician sustainability strategy, which will allow us to define the path and track and set guidelines for society, productive agents and administration itself. We will also present this draft. And this strategy will be focused on creating a low-carbon, efficient and sustainable economy in resource use, with three clearly differentiated focus areas: the first and thanks, which is the reduction in the use of plastic in our community, on the line in which the real decree by the Central Government was adopted in the past Council of Ministers of May 18th; another line is the implementation of sustainable good practices in administration; and the other axis will be the bet on sustainable public procurement. Our commitment to the circular economy is indeed an integral change of the current model we know. And this renewal must also include -- because we understand it to be obliged -- as it cannot be otherwise, a change in current legislation, which is today designed for a linear model and not designed for a circular economy model. And for this reason we are working very hard to equip Galicia with a new regulatory framework on waste, because we are aware that it is necessary to adapt the current legislation to the changing model that is being experimented and that it is already walking indisputably towards the circular economy. A system that, on the other hand, is called to be the only model in the future possible. And that's why we've already finished the draft -- which we will immediately begin its processing -- which will be Galicia's new waste and contaminated soil law. Galicia. Also and immediately after the adoption of this new law, its rules of procedure will be drawn up. Our forecast is to soon present the preliminary draft of this law with the objective of bringing it to this chamber in the next session. We are working to make it an innovative, practical law that is in line with European policies. A text that will also contribute to the promotion of employment, green employment, in our community. This new legislative text will introduce in its articulated the main measures of the circular economy package approved in the European Union in 2015 and will set new targets for materials, focusing specifically on prevention and preparation for reuse. In fact, it will include the creation of a Welsh network for reuse, promoting the intervention of social entities. Among the latest measures in the future text with regard to the current law are actions to effectively combat food waste, such as encouraging the creation of a social pact through a code of good practice in relation to food surpluses and their treatment; it will also include specific measures for both hostaria and retail food sellers; regulation of the sale of the single-use threat — talking of dishes, glasses, knives, spoons and forks of plastics — or also promoting the market of valued waste and innovative green public purchase. As I said, we are already taking effective measures to implement this system in Galicia. So, in addition to the design of the strategies that will mark us the steps to take and the change of the current legislative framework, we are already performing actions in different sectors and always oriented towards the circular economy. In this way, we've worked with housing, with municipalities, with industries and businesses and with the population in general. Looking specifically at the hospitality sector, this year we are promoting a pilot project to reduce food waste by boosting this culture between the sector and the population. It was an initiative for which we had the support of the four provincial associations of the Galician hostel and where we invested about 300 thousand euros. Thanks to this collaboration, customers were offered the possibility of taking the food that was not consumed in the premises for their subsequent use in their homes. So, the Greeks who come to a restoration site for those who are part of this campaign voluntarily have the option of taking food remains to their homes in containers, so we avoid being turned into waste, because it is estimated that every year about a billion tons of food is wasted on the world, and we are also recognizing the importance and character of the precious good that food has. It is worth noting that this initiative was a success of implementation and we are studying its results and its possibilities of re-editing these agreements. This action is followed by the launch in February this year of the Horeca project, carried out in collaboration with Ecoembes and Ecovidrio, intended directly for hosting, catering and catering sites, where from Ecoembes and Ecovidrio an investment of EUR 450,000 was made in the four provinces to encourage the collection of packages in this sector, with a double objective: training and information of professionals and the increase in rates of flow of light packaging and a decrease in the percentage of impopies. This measure basically consists of encouraging locals to separate themselves from their original packaging and, by extension, to increase their awareness of recycling and to do the same at home. Today there are 963 sites implanted into the project, united to this project in twenty-one entities, and our goal is to try to reach the thousand places. We're also actively working with municipalities like the administration closest to citizens; it's one of the ways in which we understand ourselves more directly to reach citizens. In this line of collaboration, we have recently launched a new initiative under the motto "Join the Challenge", which aims to encourage the recycling of light packaging in a total of fifteen municipalities now, through awareness-raising and through various actions of impact on the street, and which has an budget of EUR 380,000. The goal is that in three months these fifteen participating municipalities will improve at least ten percent the percentage of the arrivals to the yellow container, in the same period as the previous year. And for those who achieve it they will receive as a reward 2,000 euros, which will have to be destined for a social cause they choose. We also increased the placement of new carton containers of paperboard throughout Galicia. In fact, the total number exceeds two thousand seven hundred containers of cartons and seven hundred twenty cardboard paper in localities in the four provinces, thus counting an budget invested in these containers of 1.1 million euros. The impulse we're giving to the circular economy we're taking it into business, too. Specifically, we work with the construction sector, with a look at the treatment of waste derived from this activity. The goal set by the State for the year 2020 is that the volume of material coming from the construction is 10% of the volume generated in 2010. And while our community is among the least waste generated by this type of waste, it is vital that we continue to reduce its volume and thus minimize the environmental impact of the construction activity. For this same purpose, we have developed actions geared towards the labour-based training of APEC, the Provincial Association of Construction Entrepreneurs. This allowed us to raise awareness of recycling for workers in this sector, a large waste generator who are likely to re-enter the productive cycle, thus contributing to the circular economy. The results of this work were later presented in Congress on Sustainability and Competitiveness for the Construction Sector, the first of these characteristics that was organized by this corporate collective. In this line we have also recently presented a study on industrial symbiosis. Industrial symbiosis linked in this case and taken as an example of the industrial polygons, the Pocomaco, Sabón and A Grela polygon, in the city of Coruña. This report concludes that the collaborative model allows to expand the environmental and social economic advantages far beyond the sphere of influence of a single company. Thanks to this work, in which sixty-three companies were analyzed, we have the confirmation that industrial symbiosis is a business strategy that generates important competitive advantages, since it allows the use of opportunities in the direct use of waste and by-products, distribution of energy from industry, service or infrastructure. And we did this job to boost this exchange between companies and give them the tools they could do it. We thus assume the role of unlocking symbiosis in Galicia, industrial symbiosis, because we are aware that often companies do not have enough resources to identify or even explore these kinds of opportunities that can offer them businesses located in nearby industrial polygons. Finally, and no less important, we are carrying out a wide and varied set of actions with the eye on increasing awareness and awareness of the population. This is undoubtedly one of the paths to move forward so that society will definitely change towards a model of circular economy. To increase awareness, as well as the awareness of the Greeks and the Greeks, we design varied actions oriented to different audiences: Specifically, in the wake of recycling, we have recently presented with the hand of Ecovidrio the initiative "And who are you from?", which aims to raise awareness of the importance of glass recovery. This campaign is not isolated, because it is part of an ambitious glass collection plan, which consists of actions from this year to 2020. In this Ecovidrio plan it will invest 11 million euros in our community and aims to increase the glass collection by 27.5% over the year 2015, thus recovering 9,680 tons more by the year 2020. And for this, we need to increase the collection points, there will be 2,984 new containers to achieve by 2020 that ratio of one container per 160 inhabitants. We also bet on the recycling of electrical and electronic waste, with the launch of an initiative that is "What plugs in, recycles." An information, dissemination and awareness-raising action on the proper management of this type of waste, in which we are investing EUR 680,000 together with the WEEE. This action is, in line with the objectives of the European Union, towards a new model of circular economy, since these devices contain very valuable materials, which must be recovered, as well as waste, which are dangerous and which must be properly managed. This initiative extends today in one hundred and thirty-eight municipalities and has seven hundred information activities and the installation of more than a thousand specific containers for electrical equipment. In the coming months, we will launch another initiative with the same objective of recycling electrical and electronic waste for children. And we also think that the smaller ones, which are our future, the next course will launch awareness-raising actions geared towards the recycling of batteries. These initiatives are followed by others that we have seen developing in recent months, among which highlights "Opportunidades Galicia", which has been going through Galicia without pause since 2012 and which is having a very important impact. We have invested more than two million euros in it, and only last year have we managed to reach fifteen thousand people through more than five hundred performances. We're also present at gastronomy parties, ferronomists and parties through an initiative that's "Separate in a Way." And we will also continue the initiative "Recycle on the Way of Santiago", which is centered on the Portuguese Route. Last year had an important success on the North Way, with a hundred and forty shelters attached. We don't want to stay here, we're going to take a step further with the performances for the circular economy, and what we want is to improve the environmental behaviour of the Greeks and the Greeks, and for that, another initiative called "Verdear" is born. A philosophy that aims at both population and economic agents introducing good environmental practices into their usual activities. To achieve this aim, it was decided to address awareness-raising and dynamisation by sectors of the population and by economic sectors. Adapting the message of usual activities from each sector of the population to economic activities is easier — and we understand that — that message can reach its recipients. And for awareness-raising actions to be effective and reach their goals is so important the message that will be transmitted as the way to transmit it. Thus, a message that is received in an attractive and striking format is easier than it comes and remains in the audience to which it is intended. So, to unify the message that is going to be transmitted in each of the sectors, a brand was created, which is called "Verdear." This brand image is designed to facilitate the dissemination of environmental awareness actions, highlighting all of them for the same purpose. The green color is the traditional one associated with hope, the hope of a more sustainable planet and a value that we have to instill in some way. This action is part of the idea that everything can have and take green color, which is the green of sustainability. It's a symbolic bet we want to develop, with a working methodology that is to develop good practice manuals for each sector, it's to contact the main agents of each sector and by putting in place actions aimed at implementing those good practices in these sectors. And the selected sectors are: schools and schools, with "Green School", to improve environmental education throughout the educational community; trade, with "Green Trade", with the aim of improving environmental behaviour in Galicia of commerce; "Green Play", in order to reduce emissions of waste and noise at sporting events that take place in our community; and "Green Festivals", to introduce the variable of sustainability of the various events, celebrations and events that take place throughout Galicia's geography. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the transition to a circular economy offers great opportunities for Europe and, of course, also for Galicia. We are faced with the challenge of modernizing and transforming our economy, moving it into a more sustainable direction. The circular economy brings together important energy savings, environmental benefits, creates jobs at the local level and creates new opportunities for social integration. It must be borne in mind that the progressive implementation of this system demands many efforts, many sources and many directions. Therefore, all public authorities as well as the company must be committed. The circular economy must be on the path of all governments; in the Union it has been for some time now, and that is why we are taking action and designing a more appropriate policy framework for this challenge. The circular economy must also be in companies' forecasts, which we encourage to actively join this model and which we will support to do so. Finally, we need everyone's involvement to face a reality that we want to change our community, making it a more sustainable and responsible place from an environmental and social point of view. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u4	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u5	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I have to confess that I am absolutely impressed, I am not amazed by the boldness you have to come here to appear on nothing, on the void, on the smoke, because you basically came here to sell smoke, smoke bottled and smoke that, of course, is not very clean. We can call this a "simmon comprecence," because what you came to talk about here is precisely the absence of a Greek strategy of the circular economy, circular economy and climate change. Because for now, look, in other appearances at least they were still coming with PowerPoint, but neither you nor that. We don't have one single document from the German Government that talks about this issue, we only have press notes, we have ads and we have pilot programs. You came here to talk about pilot programs, besides an absolutely reductionist and poor vision of the concept of the circular economy. Because you came to talk to us almost exclusively about a part of this matter, which is waste management. That phrase that you like so much about the "conversion of waste into resources." And here are some examples of the pilot programs you're doing, but what you've really seen us say here is that there's no own strategy, there's no road map, there's no one's own agenda for the Greek Government on this matter. So this is replaced by cosmetics, replaced by decoration, and with an absolutely hollow speech, full of common places, full of vagueness, with that real fraud of words that want to replace reality. Because, of course, it's good to put in the "sustainable" speech — that's cool a lot, right? — to put "green economy", "blue economy", "multi-erre strategy", "circular economy", "innovation" and now "greening", of course, everything that's green because superbly. But in their policies, we see more gray, we see more black and we see more brown than green, really. And the real problem is not that there is a strategy, the problem is that what they are doing in practice with their policies is radically against the forecasts and plans for action by the European Union with regard to the circular economy, and we will have -- we will talk about that later -- multiple examples of this. Now, to begin with, we would have to put some preventions about what this means about the discourse of the circular economy, which also has a fraudulent part of speech. Because, of course, the circular economy involves all parts of the process, from the generation of raw materials resources to production and then to the consumption and management of the resources produced by consumption, but we have to intervene at all stages of the process. So this seems more like a cosmetic and decorative operation to -- let's say -- do what Sarkozy said: capitalism must be reinvented. Of course, it's an absolutely unsustainable model because resources are limited, because population growth with the prospects of population growth by 2050 meant that we would need three planets to feed. Well, and without taking into account the totally unequal distribution of wealth and the difficulty that two-thirds of the population have to access basic resources, because they could have three planets. So, of course, as this is impossible, because we have to change the model, the system. But really here is the basis of the question is that capitalism is an economic model that is based on the exploitation of resources, on devastation, on suffering, on inequality and also on excessive consumption of products and goods, which, of course, then, must look for strategies to eliminate them, to recover them, to recycled them, to do with them I don't know what. But if we don't attack all phases of the process, if we don't attack the very foundations of capitalism and if we don't look for an alternative model, which has to go through the reduction of consumption, also the economic downturn, the consumption of proximity, for all these issues, because of course we're not going to attack the very foundations of the problem, which is a gigantic threat to the future of the planet, to the future of humanity, and also to justice, to social equity and to a more dignified life for many people, who in this system is absolutely excluded, is doomed to misery and death. So let's talk clearly and talk about what this is all about. For, in this context, it seems good to us that the European Union is trying to lead — or it does not seem bad at least — the need to change this system, which is absolutely irreversible, and to launch this speech on the sustainability of the circular economy, the green economy and the fight against climate change. We also think that Europe must lead it. And that's why that action plan has already been introduced -- I remind you -- in 2015, and it's been almost three years, and there's been time to do more than a few pilot projects, Madam Counsellor. And I also remind you that there's a draft of Spanish strategy on circular economy, which you didn't even mention here. It is not approved, but there was already time to accompany the process of drafting the strategy and to have done something in Galicia that had marked a global direction, direction and concrete measures to have its own strategy. And I remind you that there are countries that already have approved development strategies, such as, for example, Holland or Finland, or, look, not only countries, but territories that are not recognized as states, such as Scotland or Catalonia -- that you like Catalonia so much, to intervene in Catalonia, of course -- because they also have a circular green economy strategy since 2015. They're taking you a long time. So put the batteries on, recycle the batteries and get them to work because, really, you're the one who told us here that they didn't do anything. What they do is a lot of pumping; that's true, they're the champions of the pumping. Look, I'm going to read you some press notes: "Galiza is based on the Spanish and European vanguard as regards the establishment of policies to maximize the resources available with the aim of maintaining for longer time in the productive cycle and thereby reducing waste generation." European vanguard, Spanish. My mother...! "The Union defends in Zamora its circular economy strategy as a sustainable model." But what strategy? There's no strategy; you just said it here, which you're going to do. By the way, this year they're going to do shit. Of course, you're already in the time of discount, you're in that career already to be presented in the Coruña, and you must want to leave here a minimum balance, at least drafts, because what you've told us here is drafts, drafts, drafts. This year a lot of drafts are going to be made: drafts of laws, drafts of strategies; all by the end of the year. I don't know, see what we see in that time frame? We will wait at the end of the year to be able to debate, to be able to discuss. But what we think is a lack of respect, Counselor, is that you come here to a debate without even bringing in a document, without presenting a document publicly before, even if it was a draft of strategy about what we can discuss, and come here to present us the common places, vagueities and pilot projects. This isn't serious and it's disrespectful of opposition groups, it's disrespectful. Look, you've also had the nerve to go nothing more and nothing less than to the Fenosa Natural Gas Chair on 3-11-2017 — before coming to this parliament, by the way — to talk about what they were doing -- that was a few months ago, in November 2017 -- a Welsh strategy of climate change, a gale strategy of sustainability. By the way, he said there was going to be a draft of this Greek sustainability strategy in the first half of 2018 — you, the announcements, the deadlines and the semesters, now he has told us here what it would be by the end of the year; well, it's all good; it's all good to announce something, then change the deadlines — and that he's also processing the Greek circular economy strategy. And you've also had the dare to put Sogama as a model and as an example of circular economy, which is worth it! It is good for you to know what Europe is saying about the treatment of waste, which is increasing the demands of recovery and recycling with such a view to 2020, that you will no longer meet, because you will not meet the target of 50%, nor the target of 2035, which envisages a 65% target for urban waste. You don't meet those predictions with the model of Sogama, which is a model that only interests those of the chair where you went to talk, the Natural Gas and Fenosa. Those are Sogama's beneficiaries. [[Applause]] This is an example of a circular economy, Madam Counsellor, because Gas Natural supplies fuel for drying and burning waste, most of which are organic waste, coming from cities and not composting. You haven't spoken anything here about composting, for example, which is the most important fraction of urban solid waste. That is a bet determined by the use of waste, and we have examples in Galicia, who could take note and take advantage of them, and at least talk about them; he didn't talk about it. So Sogama is the perfect example. And Sogama is the antithesis of the circular economy, Sogama is an absolutely impossible, cost-effective model, in which you are on a run forward with that macro contract of nearly five hundred million euros to be able to process, treat and burn all the waste that is produced in Galicia, which is absolutely, of course, insatiable. So here it is done the opposite of what is said. Then in the second intervention we'll have more time to talk about issues than you didn't talk about. For example, of raw materials and resources, with the model, for example, of megaminery, which goes against absolutely the circular economy, of resource policy, of negative impacts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u7	Nor did you talk about consumption and sustainable consumption models, because the model that you promote is that of the large commercial surfaces. He didn't talk about sectoral water policy, which is one of the main objectives of the Spanish circular economy strategy, for example. What is expected to be done with regard to water reuse? And I'm not gonna ask you about the local water pact anymore, because we've been talking about it for more than five years and nothing's been going on. Nor have you talked about composting, that you're more than a pilot plan doing nothing about matter, and there are, of course, ambitious and pioneer experiences in Galicia. He didn't talk about forest biomass. He did not speak either of taxation, which is another fundamental instrument for carrying out effective policies of circular economy. Counselor, I'm sorry to tell you that you came here to sell smoke. And at BNG we didn't buy him smoke. We don't buy smoke because it's smelly smoke and polluting, the smoke of Sogama and Ence, which are real monsters of a destructive, devastating, anti-ecological, late economic model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u8	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u9	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone. Good morning, Counselor. His speech today is officially called the "Appearance of Mrs. Environmental Adviser and Territorial Planning, on her own request, to take account of her policy on circular economics." And, indeed, it seems that this goes from circles, in particular, from three circles: That circle, that wheel of counsellors that you use to come every full one; they make a wheel and this time it touched you. And since you couldn't come here to talk about the strategy against climate change, because you haven't done it, because it's going to be hard for you before you land in the Coruña, in the county, to give you time to finish, because you come to talk about another strategy, you come to talk about the strategy of the circle. There's a second circle, which is perhaps their own curriculum vitae, counselor. You've been in the Igape, you've been provincial delegate to the Fisheries Council, you've been a work and well-being advisor to the environment right now and, according to this poll on Sunday, you may become a concelebrant in the Town Hall of Coruña. Economists say that the circular economy is going to reduce the entry of materials and the production of virgin wastes for re-use. And perhaps you, the advisor, is the example of political re-use by your political party. [[Applause]] And there's still another circle, a third circle, which is Eduardo Zaplana's circular economy: taking the money, taking them out of the country, taking them to Switzerland; taking the money from Switzerland, taking them elsewhere — presumably — but turning them around. But that's not our model of circular economy, nor the model of circular economy that the European Union has as its advisor. You come here late, too late. In 2011, almost eight years ago, the European Commission had already proposed a framework for the efficient use of resources, and it was talking about a circular economy. In 2013, these main ideas of the framework were developed in the Seventh Environmental Action Programme. In 2014, the Commission notified Parliament and the Council of a zero waste programme based on the circular economy. Therefore, at least, you come four years late to this parliament. And we don't have much time left, because in the year 2025 we must avoid the greening of all recyclable waste, and in the year 2030 we should achieve the elimination of all landfills. That's what Europe tells us. And we're at least four years ago. You came here to make ads. He told us of that coordination with Catalonia and Valencia. Oh, the truth is it's not the right day for you to take Valencia for a walk. He came to talk about this working group on circular economics and European funds, but this document of 2014 says that European funds can be used to support state efforts. [[Applause]] And you come four years later saying that you are the leaders of a working group that went to Seville to present your conclusions. And it would be good if you had come to Parliament today to discuss the conclusions of that working group, which perhaps had much more content than what you told us was totally empty of everything just fifteen minutes ago, Counsellor. That coordination, in the end, came late, and perhaps it seems a rather deformed circle. An ellipse, counselor, is not a circle. You made announcements, but you did them already in February; the same as it tells us here you did in February, in the Coruña. Your CEO of Environmental Quality made them in March; yesterday too. And you come here, and there's no document, except for that work document apparently. But you don't bring it here, you don't even put it on the Council page. And they say they introduce the circular economy into the debate. Home!, when the European Union was already talking about circular economy in 2011, entering, they don't introduce too much. And they say they'll review the legislative proposals on waste management. Counselor, you said before they're going to increase composting levels through Sogama. How will composting levels be increased through Sogama if the composting plant is not done in Sogama? It's impossible to increase in Sogama, it'll be elsewhere, but in Sogama it's certain that it won't. They also say you can already collaborate in measures such as the reduction of single-use bags. You've passed far above the plastics and the use of bags. He said he agreed with the royal decree that Saturday be published in the BOE. But that royal decree reduces and prevents the self-government of our autonomous community, restricts our powers as tax advisor. All he does is give traders the chance to apply for themselves a rise for the use of recyclable bags. And it's over, they give the recyclable bags and they eliminate the non-recyclables, at a price of between 5 and 15 cents. But there's no chance, because you've already knocked her out. He said they were going to follow that line, that Galicia is the one who handles a specific tax on plastic bags, with a sensitization campaign. You've completely passed over that issue. And he also said here that he is facing two challenges: the fight against climate change and the fight against waste reduction and reuse. Look at what this draft climate change strategy draft will look like just fifteen days ago in the Coruña has been posed by a light and light pollution specialist group in our autonomous community the possibility of working on that line, and of you, Government, they didn't know anything! Andalucia has been working on light pollution for more than seven years. You don't even know there was a group working on light pollution, counselor. How are you going to fight climate change if there's a kick from that climate change you don't even know, and your team doesn't? Hard, hard. Ecoembes data — annual report — are as follows: Spain fails in circular economy —di Ecoembes. In the European Union 36% of waste generated in the year 2014, in Galicia last year 21.3%. He went to the yellow container last year by 10.5% in Galicia, Spain by 14%. He went to the blue container last year by 12.9 % in Galicia, Spain by 16.1%. And Spain, according to Ecoembes, is suspended. Counselor, the average state in impropriety is 29.2%, in Galicia we exceed 30%. These data are bad, they're very bad, counselor. You can't assume with this data, nor lie, which was what you did yesterday to your CEO of Environmental Quality and Climate Change, saying further that in the community as a whole we are moving forward because we recycled 2% more in 2017 than in 2016, but it's that in Spain it was 3.41% more. So we're under here. And he also said that almost 100 percent of the population had access to selective collection. Home! In rural it's very difficult. You don't go too far there, because I don't see too many selective harvest containers in the countryside; at least we don't see them. Counselor, you cannot be happy with this data. If we start from 21.3% of 2017 in recycling, how will we get there or, above all, when we reach 65% that Brussels demands us by 2035? We're negative, Counselor. The Canary Islands, which was one of the least recycled communities, is already in 37.1%, we are in 21.3%. We're on the table below. And say Ecoembes why this happens. For two questions: by application of the laws — and that is their competence — and by unequal supply of containers — and also indirectly their competence. So something will have to do with you. This circular economy strategy that is being done in the state for 2018-2020 — we are almost in the middle of 2018 and still does not exist — poses six challenges: water reuse, fiscal harmonisation, construction and demolition waste, marine waste, obsolescence and food waste. You just talked about two, the other four for you don't exist, basically because they didn't do anything. Water is not reused in our community, nor have you promoted anything. At no time do you talk about raising taxes on the use of encouraged water or air pollution. These taxes have been frozen for years. They don't implement new telephony taxes, for example, that affect the environment, or the transport of electricity. They don't dare. The sea trash, the plastics, you've passed far above. You could put waste collection points in the ports. Waste goes to sea, so it's garbage in the sea basically. Well, you could pick up. In the state strategy there is that possibility, that option, that measure. You put it in Galicia, too. Obsolescence and prolong the useful life of the products, you didn't mention it. And that's what those led light bulbs are very famous; even we have them here in Parliament, because we just changed them a year ago. And you talked about food waste, saying they're running a pilot project with an amount of €300,000. Counselor, really, of the four other challenges we don't know. It would be all right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u11	...—ending already—it would be nice if you were to go to Seville to tell you something about these six challenges that are posed in the first strategy of fighting against climate change and the first strategy of circular economy, because we're in negative and we're going very bad, counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u13	Good morning to all of you. Good morning, Counselor, and thank you very much for the release you just made us. Examples of circular economy, such as Mr Zaplana's, have already been set here, which helped works and returned commissions. Convicted, surprisingly — a more isolated case of corruption in the People's Party, one more minister in Mr. Aznar's office — by money laundering, rocketing, prevarication and misrepresentation. To me it is a great surprise, especially coming from a man who at the end of the '90s had already said, "I came here to feed myself—to politics." He didn't have the legal validity of that test, but he said so. One more surprise. Well, another example of circular economy, Counselor, might be that the port lands will be returned to the town of Coruña, because one day the city of Coruña gave them to a public service, which was the port of Coruña. And, Counsellor, you could also explain why you voted in favour of the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority of privatization of the land of the Solana. Since she will be a candidate for the People's Party to the mayor of the Crown, she could explain to the corrupt and corrupt people why you voted in favour of the business that the land that one day the city of the Crown has given up. Anywhere is good to explain those questions, Counselor. Well, then I get involved in what the comrades have already said. It's a lack of respect for this kind of appearance, especially when you've announced it here -- here's a screwdriver, I don't know if someone's lost it, but I'm leaving it here. It was a coincidence. [[Mr. Sánchez García puts an object on the presidential rostrum.]] It could have been anyone, certainly mine, but... you announced that tomorrow documents from the sectoral working groups will be made public, I don't know if you were referring to the Greek strategy of fighting climate change, etc. Why don't you guys have enough respect for this camera to wait for some tangible result to come here to make an appearance and that we can talk about those results? [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] Why do you use this as an advertisement for what's going to happen tomorrow outside these walls of Parliament? One more disrespect. And another disrespect is to come with literature. The literature, especially if it's not good, has to be accompanied by facts. If you come here to talk about literature from the circular economy, you should make it clear that the first thing someone says about circular economy is that there has to be an integral conception of governments if we want to reduce the consumption of materials and resources, which are limited. If you came here to give a speech with an integral conception of your government, you would have to talk about the waste system you've chosen for years, since you rule in this country, which is the Sogama system or model. You should talk about the Galician Public Transport Plan and how this conception of resource reduction will influence the design of that Galician Public Transport Plan. No, he's completely off his speech. You come here to tell me who it's coming from, what if we go to a restaurant and we ask for a little bag we're left with -- that's good, but it's anecdotal part if we're really going to do an analysis of where this country consumes resources. I'd have to talk about transport, I'd have to talk about urbanism, about what soil law you've done. Obviously, if you had an integral conception of what the circular economy is, because you would say we're going to make some land laws that no longer consume soil, which is also a non-renewable resource, which recovers the already built, etc. And you're what you've done over these years is Sanxexos, Barriers and all kinds of urbanism that is precisely a predator of resources: energy, soil, etc., and that it also organizes us as a country in a way that we have to consume a lot of resources to live a normal life. We have to move because there's no conception of where we place the services, there's no spatial planning. You didn't talk about land management, how in many areas you have to travel miles and kilometers to get services. So in all their government actions, there's no such idea behind it, no struggle against climate change, no circular economy, nothing. And, as already said here, you instead come here to do cosmetics, make advertising empty, etc. I'd have to talk about mining, for example. Of course, you come here and announce drafts, and with campaign names that have a great creativity. But you're running out of campaigns. I'd have to talk about mining. I would have to say that recently the Predation Act, the Business Initiatives Promotion Act, was approved, which gave, for example, the mining sector even more manga to continue with an activity without even modulating the effectiveness of this activity. That is, if we have an activity that is a great consumer of resources, both minerals and water, at least there should be some guideline to reduce consumption, to increase efficiency in mining extraction. In addition, it is one of the characteristics that distinguishes it from other countries producing slates. I mean, the inefficiencies in mining. This is: they need to consume a lot more resources to achieve the product. Nothing you said about that. Nothing has said about what they have planned to do with this Act of promoting business initiatives in order to give much more dynamism to this current mining activity, which is polluting and resource-consuming. These are important things. Because we also have the feeling, Counselor, that really the environmental counsellor here is Mr. Tahoces, we have that feeling. Because we'd like to know what you did in your department to control the devastation of the contaminant activity of some mining companies. What have you done with regard to the Touro mine, abandoned in 1988, which has contaminated all the aquifers and streams of the surroundings over the past few years? What did you do in the San Fins mines? What did you do, ultimately, to try to control that activity that pollutes and also reduces resources? You could talk about what policies are going to implement within this concept of circular economy in agriculture. Agriculture is another of the great consumers of resources, Counsellor. Galicia imports every year about nine hundred million foods coming from America, Asia, etc. Well, if it's €9 billion, I think something should have thought about it, right? Well, maybe you should think that instead of reducing the useful agricultural surface, as if you're reducing in recent years, because you'd have to see how we produce these foods here for the growing industry, locate them here in a much more sustainable way. It's okay, you didn't say anything about it. You should talk about thermals. If you're making a strategy of fighting climate change, those two power stations that emit one third of this country's two greenhouse gases, you don't deserve a second of your appearance. Will there be any guidance in that strategy of fighting climate change? In the industry, the biomass plants you are authorizing, 50 megawatts, are they sustainable from a resource consumption point of view? Is it acceptable for a biomass plant located in Curtis to have to consume 100,000 hectares of eucalyptus for its operation? Or would it be more useful to have decentralised plants operating on the basis of forest waste? Etcetera, et cetera, et cetera. The great themes you've gone over have not even named them. Because, really, you don't have a full conception, you don't have a stake in the circular economy or in the sustainability, because if you did, you would have a completely different government action. And finally, Sogama. Where do you get the data? Who's he trying to fool? The last memory presented by Sogama says it's recycled 3%. Yes, sir, he's here! "The total recycling index, recycled tons divided between managed tons, is 0.0332." That's what you recycle. You came here to talk about that it takes fewer tons to the dump because there are also dumps in B, that instead of spilling into Areosa if they're pouring, for example, in Grixoa, in Trazo or elsewhere; they're lying there without control. Yes, Counselor. And besides, why incinerate more? He beats an incineration record: 583,000 tons in 2015. And you also sell that as an appreciation, when energy efficiency indices don't give you an appreciation. So you eliminate depending on incineration. And we also need to bless her because they increased greenhouse gas emissions at Sogama incineration. That is, they contaminated more and contributed negatively to the fight against climate change with their waste system. Finally, you haven't come to this very important issue seriously because you don't take it seriously, or your policies on urbanism, land management, mining, services, forest or agriculture. You have not thought about policies that really face one of the most serious problems humanity has, and that resources are finite and the population grows — not in Galicia. And that's one of the great threats to humanity. You don't really talk about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u14	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u15	Good morning, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I have, frankly, for some time now continually made allusions to the potential candidates that the People's Party may have for the cities, and specifically for my city, The Crown. I appreciate the concern you have about the opposition or the concern you show for our municipal candidatures. We're not in that, we don't think you're going to lead any local projects. And -- believe me -- besides if for anything you were leading a project, we'd still be much happier than you are. Second, because I think it would be good news for the People's Party that these same speeches that you have here had in cities. Because they probably wouldn't go down five points, as the polls showed a year for here, but maybe you'd stay in a residual situation, as happened to the other nationalist party. Mrs Vilan, we could talk about the Socialist Party's cycles. It's true that it makes it much easier because the circles of We can no longer exist. For the only one who was built or for the only one who would meet, it seems that it will be to judge the purchase of that chalet, the chalet of its leaders. But, look, you forgot to talk here about the ERE circle. You might as well have talked about the circle of the Garanón towers. Or he might have spoken of the circle of Somesus, that Mr. Sánchez surely could inform him of some of what is happening in the Coruña and why the matter has not yet been taken to the Advisory; but surely he may give some hint to Mr. Sánchez. We could also talk about the evil circles, those in which you put us: economic crisis, job destruction and unemployment, of which you are true teachers. Or we could also talk about the circular economy of the Ministry of Environment, which financed the Socialist Party of Valencia. Of course, we can talk about all those circles. I prefer to focus on the circular economy. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Sánchez, since you're talking about the Coruña, I could also explain to you here what the business of your organization's signatories, who seem to be doing the summer these three years, are doing August. Why don't you talk about buying apartments? That's a circular economy. You, they rule, you take a level playing field, your directors are the ones who compete on these bases, and 40% of the star measurement of the tides in the house goes to a director of your organization. [[Murmurs.]] That's indeed circular economy! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Great! [[Applause]] Or why don't you talk, Mr. Sánchez, about the obstacles to public transport that you're putting your organization on? You're blocking all the metropolitan transport plans at all, you're blocking the freedom for those under 19, you're blocking the intermodals where they can block them, you're blocking absolutely any project that supports or wants to drive the collective transport. You talk about it later, if you want, in turn. But, look, I'm going to talk about circular economy. The 17th of May was a day of celebrations. Among other things, what has been celebrated is perhaps the most important celebration of our culture or linked to our culture. Also May 17th was the Day against Homophobia. It is not to be remembered that in 1990 the World Health Organization stopped considering homosexuality as a disease. Since then, significant progress has been made, but there are still aggressions and discriminations that make it necessary for us to remember this date. But also on May 17, International Day of Recycling is celebrated, an initiative by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, which seeks to raise awareness of the importance of achieving the objective of a sustainable planet. These celebrations and, of course, all activities focused on environmental education and awareness-raising over these years have made us aware that the linear economy — rather than producing, using and removing — is not a response to today's society. It is necessary to continue to bet on the social changes that are necessary to change dynamics and very rooted habits and change the model. With particular emphasis on environmental education, innovation and the collaboration of all social agents: companies, administrations and ourselves. We have positive data. Here in Galicia, for example, the recycling of glass in the last years of those we know the data say that the Greeks and the Greeks recycle more every year, and that each year the selective collection increases through the container. There is positive data on household packaging recycling, also increasing the percentage of packaging recycling deposited in the yellow and blue container. And these increments are the fruit of a clear bet on recycling. There are many of the actions that the advisor put forward in her intervention aimed at increasing the awareness and awareness of the population. And as I very rightly said, this is undoubtedly one of the ways to move forward so that society will definitely change towards a model of circular economy. A very important work has been done to increase the awareness and awareness of the Greeks and the Greeks, carrying out many actions aimed at different audiences. I know that these kinds of actions seem to provoke laughter and shrapnel by members of the opposition. But I think that these campaigns are very important, and that sometimes, even if I make them laugh at my opposition colleagues, it's good that we talk about them. In the recycling issue, and in order to raise awareness about the importance of glass recovery, you were developing the campaign "Who did you see?"", which is part of an ambitious plan, with investments of 11 million euros, for the glass collection, which began in 2016 and will reach up to 2020. And there's a sort of waste that the advisor mentioned, that they have to pay special attention to, that they are the household appliances, because they contain hazardous waste, that they must be properly managed, and that they also have valuable materials that must be recovered. That's why I think we should all be happy about that effort that has been made since the Council with the recycling of electrical and electronic waste. These initiatives are followed by others that the advisor reported, among them the campaign "Opportunidades de Galicia", the initiative "Separate in a Way", "Recycle on the Way of Santiago", the collaboration she has with clubs and federations from all over Galicia for the promotion of selective collection, as well as the project "Verdear", which seeks to improve the environmental behaviour of the Greeks and the Greeks by making them adopt in their usual good environmental practices. Mr. Bará, you were talking about this appearance being a smoke show. I want to tell you that in this audience you made a lot of announcements and if you talked about very important things, among them, a new waste law. Smoke? Your Honor, you will allow me to tell you that smoke is yours, and so do the Greeks every time there are elections, and they are giving them fewer Members each time. Why? Because they understand that your project is getting lighter and lighter, that your project is smoking, and people -- as you say very well -- don't want to smoke. But, look, this new waste law will contemplate the new criteria approved by the European Union, boost reuse, reduce food waste and promote innovative green public procurement. It's a law that will be in this chamber, that you want to work and you want to contribute, and you can do it, and you want to make contributions, our group will be receptive to your contributions. I hope you're just as receptive to the contributions made by the majority group as well. You mentioned some specific projects, some specific companies, some specific requests. We are always going to support the fulfilment of legality, the laws passed in this parliament, in this parliament with different majority, the majority of the People's Party, but there was also a small moment where there was a majority made by the Socialist Party and the nationalists who passed laws. Some of them are being approved now. We are not in favour of the arbitrary interpretation of the laws. We are not supporters, Mr Bará, whether you make the decision whether or not a company can have any activity. We believe that for that we have a legal body, and that's both in the licenses or, for example, in the sanctions, we have to adjust to that, and that's where you're going to find the People's Party. With regard to Sogama, we are committed to the complementarity of urban waste management and treatment systems, and, of course, within legality and strictly complying with the European, state and autonomous guidelines. The composting of self-consumption, the household, and the industrial composting of Sogama are part of these complementary systems. The proof of this was the construction of an industrial composting plant in Cerceda, as well as its role leading in Galicia an ambitious program of self-composition or domestic composting, through which about 8,000 composers were divided. The community composting model, Mr Bará, which I think is what you mean, is currently in question because of its low efficiency and possible local impacts, especially in the vicinity. It's true that if what we do is we buy ourselves a chalet in Galapagar, maybe we won't feel it. And when we say efficiency, when we talk about waste, we're talking about the ability to do proper waste management. But, ladies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u17	...unfortunate that is Sogama, that allows you to play with the waste and then end up sending them there. Check if the Sogama model is compatible that allows you to fix your errors! In the same way that a very important bet is being made for recycling with the works of expansion of the environmental complex of Cerceda, which will soon be completed, and Sogama will be able to multiply by four its approach to recycling and, above all, minimize the diversions to the dump of Areosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u19	Only those wastes that cannot be recycled or valued energetically. You know, and if you like, recognize it here or say what is the percentage of rejection of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u21	...refugals who have their model. All right? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u22	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Today we are visited by the 5th elementary school students from Pérez Viondi, Road. We greet them and their teachers as well. Welcome to Parliament! Replica round, Environmental Adviser and Territory Planning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u23	Good day to all and welcome the children of the Road. What there is no doubt is that we will continue to take firm steps, without pause, and with all our commitment to progressing in the implementation of the circular economy and that model change so necessary in the production and generation of waste in our community as well. It is true — I have said, and I continue to say — that the targets we still have to achieve in the field of recycling are ambitious, are targets marked by the European Union, which, in fact, within that ambition, the Member States must try to achieve. That is the objective that has not yet been achieved by Galicia today, and that is why we want to continue to implement measures, which have not been achieved either by Spain and which have not achieved it by many countries of the European Union either. Therefore, even if that does not serve as an excuse, Galicia will continue forward with this commitment. I can't share the statements made by the very spokesperson of the Galician Nationalist Block when he says that the Government when it comes to Parliament is to sell smoke. The Government comes to Parliament to report on all the actions that are taking place in any of the areas, in particular in this case concerning the implementation of the circular economy in our community. In his speech Mr. Bará spoke of the fact that we should attack every step of production. Indeed, Mr Bará, we must even talk about the ecodesign from the beginning. It also mentioned that we should encourage reduced consumption, that we should also promote proximity consumption, and that we fully agree on those objectives. And, in fact, that's the main objective that this new model of circular economy has. Even you made different criticisms in your intervention that I, at least, can't -- let's say somehow -- stop underlining them. And it's just that you criticized it in one way — I said — directly, not indirectly, a chair called the Chair of Fenosa Natural Gas. Indeed, that is the name that makes a chair that is funded by Gas Natural Fenosa at the University of Vigo, specifically a professor, which is an international eminence recognized by the European Union's Climate Change Office and even recognized by the Bureau of Climate Change of MAPAMA, which is Mr. Labandeira, of what you yourself should assume as a Greek for being in international forums where policies are being defined against climate change for all of Europe. By the way, it is the reference of all the continents of the world to the commitment and the fight against climate change. [[Applause]] At least that chair is developing thanks to the financial support of a company, actually, at the University of Vigo should make you feel particularly proud. And you were also talking about Sogama's model, and somehow you looked down on Sogama's model. But you tell me, what model do you want, what model do you want to treat urban waste of more than eight hundred thousand tons of our community? You don't bet on the model of Sogama, a model that today, within the three waste management plants that exist in our community, is what less waste sends to the dump. Do you know that the main objective of waste management treatment is to get it not to go to the dump so much urban waste, because the dump is the last step? Do you know that in Sogama, you have the treatment of more than ninety-five percent of the urban waste in our autonomous community -- and I don't say that this is the goal -- only today are they developing and taking 28 percent of the waste into the dump that comes into the Sogama plant? The goal we want to achieve by 2030 is that they are 10%, which is technically called "zero-green," and we want to achieve that goal. Do you know how much you take to the dump in Nostián or how you take to the other plant, that there are only three plants in our community, which is Lousam? About 60 percent. 50% in Nostián and 60% in Lousame go to the dump. Is that the policy you want? Is that the policy you want in our community? Not us. Since the Galician Union we argue that we can also assume that we have an industrial waste management plant that, in environmental matters and even economically, is one of the most efficient in our community, and in fact, it is one of the sixteen plants that exist in Spain that are being reference plants. As for Mrs Vilán's intervention of the Socialist Party of Galicia, look, I've already told her that since the Council of Galicia and the People's Party, in fact, we're defending the implementation of the circular economy, because we want products to belong to the market, they're on the market as long as possible, and they live as long as possible in their re-use. And you go and buy me a product! Man! for I thank you, because that means I'm not yet obsolete and I have chances of reuse, which is what you were talking about in your intervention. [[Applause]] And he said to me, "Well, this is a good time for you to get out here for a walk in Valencia. Yeah, well, I'm walking bag Valencia, walking bag Catalonia, if you want to take him out walking bag Andalusia, too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u24	I should.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u25	Should I? And the model of the circular economy that they have in Andalusia with the ERE. If you want us to take a walk here too, Andalusia. But if we are serious and we take environmental policy seriously, let us see that it is just Galicia together with Catalonia and Valencia that are developing with the Ministry right now even the programmes linked to the circular economy and even the bet on how the resources of the European Union will be used. By the way, it seems that Catalonia wants to leave that forum as well. To see you as the Socialist Party that you think of it? And I saw in his intervention that he shouldn't be very well informed because he said, "What composting plant is there in Sogama?" Home!, give us time, we are investing 3 million euros in the composting plant that will treat fifteen thousand tons, and that will be finished soon in a few months. But, indeed, there will be fifteen thousand tons of composting here because we also share that model. And you're talking — and I've heard it with a lot, a lot, a lot of attention — about taxes, scholarship taxes, encouraged water taxes, taxes... well, we'll talk about spills too, about taxes. But you have the opportunity in the municipalities where you rule to start talking about the bill of water and garbage, you have the opportunity. You don't need to talk about taxes right now, so I invite you to talk to your mayors about running the water bill and garbage bill. [[Applause]] And I would also ask you to tell me what your model is in managing urban waste, whether you have anything to say about Sogama or whether it's Sogama you don't like. I say this because yesterday the spokesman of the Socialist Party, of his formation for the present time, spokesperson of the Socialist Party in the city of Coruña, even said that the model of Nostian — which, by the way, responds to the city of Coruña and the surrounding area — that he did not like, that this was not the model. And he wondered how it was possible that this model of Nostián — broken — which took the waste to a private dump — by the way, they asked which is the private dump—..., carried the waste to a private dump—I told Mr. Sánchez: to a private dump—how it was possible that the Coruña had taken the waste to a private dump having Sogama next to it, which is a management model that said its spokesperson in the city of Coruña yesterday, which was what we were supposed to implement. Indeed, I am convinced that the Sogama model is the most efficient model from the environmental perspective and also from the economic perspective. I don't mean that within Sogama, that you are now taking material advantage of -- this also includes composting -- about 20 percent, we feel especially satisfied. And because we are not particularly satisfied with that percentage that is being materially valued in Sogama, so even now if you are making an investment of EUR 30 million to multiply by four the material valuation within Sogama plant and even to have the capacity to treat urban waste throughout the autonomous community. Although today we are serving 95% of the municipalities, we could, when this investment is finished, meet virtually all of the urban waste in our community and reach up to a million tons of treatment. And in Mr. Sánchez's speech, spokesperson for the Tide, besides wanting to talk about anything else that has nothing to do with the circular economy, it became clear that they should not explain exactly what policies are being developed since the Environmental Council. Because, in fact, they are taking, as I said at the outset, firm and committed steps towards the implementation of the circular economy and even the development of the climate change strategy. And he said he didn't hear me say anything about mobility or even land management. Home!, it is true that tomorrow we will present this draft, where we will bring the work done by the people who actively participated in those six tables. And I tried to list those six months of debate where there will be those conclusions, which are energy, mobility, territory, also marine medium, agricultural-forest-gander and biodiversity. I will try to explain much better and, indeed, I will try to move to this parliament, when that work is more mature, the results and conclusions of what is currently being developed, but by speaking already and concretely, if it is true, the Council's commitment to the implementation of the circular economy. As I said, we believe that all these actions, all these strategies and even the awareness-raising and awareness-raising actions that we are developing are necessary, but they have to be accompanied by a policy framework that needs to be adapted to the 21st century and that needs to be adapted to these objectives that we pursue. And indeed, that regulatory framework will be that new waste law, which will also have its own regulation, but that new waste law will enter into this parliament in the next session. And then that waste law will have, among other purposes, to talk about food waste and the code of good practices, also about plastics and also about the sale of that single-use plastic, among other subjects. That doesn't mean that, in fact, you can't and won't talk about this law of other objectives. We are currently developing — and this is no longer smoke, because the investments are published in the Official Journal of Galicia — both the industrial waste plan of our community, with an investment of more than four million euros, and the urban waste plan. The industrial waste plan of our community has measures to support the municipalities for the management of construction and demolition waste. It also has measures aimed at waste managers, with the aim of responding to the difficulty of incorporating the product resulting from valuation into the economic cycle. We also put in place measures to improve the management of used oils, as well as improvements in the management of health waste, prevention for producer companies. And we will also mobilize actions aimed at improving the management of battery and battery waste. As I said, this is a plan that is already being auctioned today for this year and that has more than one million euros. And, on the other hand, measures would also be proposed for the Urban Waste Plan, also with an increase of more than four thousand six hundred containers in the selective collection, or even a awareness-raising campaign for the reduction of single consumption bags. We will also take measures to promote and collect selectively between large producers and municipalities, as well as measures to reduce food waste, including an educational campaign on prevention, waste and recycling. And I say again, this isn't smoke, because it's published again in the Official Journal of Galicia, with more than one and a half million euros. It also carries this work with a component that we believe has been important since June, which is all that has to do with the inspection. That is to say, ensuring compliance with the regulations and achieving a high level of environmental protection, promoting sustainable development. This community has long been a reference to the state-level environmental inspection. In fact, we are one of the first communities to have provided an Environmental Inspection Plan. This plan, which has a five-year vigil, which ends this year 2018, has been updated on several occasions in order to maintain the highest standards of quality, efficiency and efficiency for its development. We carried out an intense control work, with a total of 17,500 inspections, carried out since the beginning of the 2013 Inspection Plan, and only last year did 2,526 inspections. In the last year, he highlighted the increase in inspections due to the atmosphere, because we launched a campaign to inspect potentially polluting activities. The core of this plan is focused on monitoring large industrial installations, those that have great contaminant potential. And also other activities, such as the control of the transport of waste, the treatment of construction waste, vehicles out of use, the production of technosols and waste of electrical and electronic appliances. On our way to this circular economy, we are taking steps to achieve greater awareness within citizenship. We want to improve the recycling ratios in glass and packaging that last year, as shown by the data. We have better data, not exposed by the Council, expressly, but also by entities, such as Ecovidrio, which show that we have increased by 5,5 % compared to last year the tons of recycled glass. Even in domestic packaging in 2017, 58,000 tons were recycled, which means an increase of more than two percent. Finally, we are moving forward to achieve this goal marked by the European Union for a long time now, indeed, to reach 2020 with 50% appreciation. It's been many years we've been working on this, and that's going to be and it's gonna be our commitment. And to develop it, as beyond exposing in Parliament the strategies that will be developed throughout this year and which will be approved throughout this year, beyond trying to also give a new legislative framework and also try to have a new framework, a new paradigm that puts our community at the forefront, we are already taking steps directly towards specific sectors, so that the circular economy is a reality as soon as possible. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u26	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u27	Thank you, President. The truth is, I don't have much to say to the spokesperson of the People's Party Group, because, really, he came here repeating this with a parrot effect -- he must be by the corrupt origin -- what the advisor had already said, and talk to us here again about campaigns and actions that they are doing, as well as targets that are fulfilling recycling. It's just that if we don't make progress in packaging and glass recycling data, you'll tell me where we're going, right? It's the least you can imagine. Besides, because there is increasing awareness in people to collaborate in such activities. What we see is nervous. You're nervous because there's also a side effect on this of circularity, which is circular politics. So it turns out they're the citizens, they're eating their papas, and there's also a movement of politicians from the People's Party who want to go to citizens. They're making you candidates and you have an increasingly blacker picture in some cities, where the expectations of election results aren't very favorable to them. So you should worry a little about that. And that's why we see them worried. Counsellor, what I have tried to convey here is that we cannot have a debate on waste alone and on the use of waste; I have tried to convey that there has to be a more global debate, which is not just about Galicia, but about the whole system, about the whole model, about what kind of raw materials we use, how we produce, what the structure of consumption is and what happens after waste. And this, of course, has many limitations even for a European strategy, because most of the world's production is not in Europe at the moment, and this is a serious problem. In any case, Europe — I say — must lead, must have a strategy and must mark a path that is a reference also at the international level. You said you were going to make a new waste law. I think you said you were going to present the draft in the last quarter of this year, in the new session period; we're talking about the last quarter of this year. Well, I see the deadlines difficult because the European Union is updating its waste directive. There is a debate in Europe on this issue, they have presented objectives, but they are not yet definitively approved because there are resistances to these figures that are marking Europe. So I suppose they will first expect that the new European Waste Directive, which is not yet final, is actually introduced. And there is a negotiation with Parliament, with the Council, about which the objectives of this new directive will be. So I see it hard for them to meet that end of 2018 deadline, but we'll wait to talk about it then. And you say that the priority objective should be to reduce the greens and landfills — the technical objective zero. No, we do not agree with that statement, because it makes clear what the European Waste Directive is. And hierarchy, first, is prevention; second, reuse; third, recycling; fourth, other ways of valuing, including energy; and, fifth, disposal in the dump, which is the last of the options, but before there are others. And you bet on the fourth, which is other ways, including energy recovery, i.e. incineration. You in the Sogama model bet on the fourth of the hierarchies. And you asked, which is the Pontevedra model, which is the BNG model? Revitalize. Don't I know if you know him? Then we invite her to see him. It is a model, of course, pioneer and advanced in Europe, which bets for on-site treatment, that is, for the zero kilometre in the treatment of organic waste produced in cities, which are more than 50 % of the garbage bag. And in front of what you do, which is to move it across Galicia in trucks and also trains, to burn it in Sogama, what we're proposing is composting on site, composting home and composting community, and composting on composting plants is needed. That's the model by which the province of Pontevedra is betting, through the Deputation and also the Town Hall of Pontevedra. By the way, a model that you're boycotting, saying if you don't have permission, when there's no regulation regulating such installations as community composters. That's a model. And not, of course, that escape to the front of Sogama, which is a real disproposition, with a macro-project of enlargement that will cost 335 million in fifteen years — that is the contract — and a macro-project of transport that will cost 158 million in ten years. It's going to be almost five hundred million euros that we're going to spend, take over the next ten-five years for a model that's absolutely unbearable and that doesn't meet the targets set in the current European directive, and less will comply with those of the new directive, because they're going to be much more demanding. So, what are we talking about?, are we talking about burning bioresidues, organic wastes, or are we talking about a truly advanced, European and modern alternative, how is it being implemented in Pontevedra?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u29	Therefore, Counselor, I have no time for more, just to tell you that political forms are important, and all wrongs, too the misunderstanding of respect. And it's nothing respectful of this parliament to come up with, to talk about a strategy about the circular economy when they don't even have a document, a draft, not even a PowerPoint, Counsellor, about what to deal with. And it seems to me a lack of respect on top of it that comes here saying that tomorrow, just tomorrow, after a debate in Parliament, will present the results of the months of work on climate change. Not like that, Counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u30	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u31	Thank you, President. Counselor, before going up here, when you started, I came up with a green idea of hope — not Aguirre — but I leave here with a completely different color, which throws the black. And you come and talk about ads. That's what you did here. It uses Parliament to make political announcements. Then he says that tomorrow there will be a draft of the work, which will bring when he is mature to Parliament, that is, tomorrow he will still be green, in that idea of green hope. And the policy of his counseling in the field of circular economics, when, counselor? Because there's not much time left. You came to talk about Sogama and energy recovery, at the bottom of the waste management table, energy recovery, next to incineration and the dump, advisor. You're here to talk about the composting plant in Sogama. Actually, he's not doing it. In fact, Mr. Agustín Hernández was already talking about a composting plant in Sogama, and he is an expert in dumping waste into the water. That's safe, but in composting Mr. Agustín Hernández is not too expert. And you come to say that the spokesman of the Socialist Party in the Coruña defenestra Nostián, to say that Sogama is the best model. He didn't say that, Counselor. If you're going to the Town Hall to talk to the rest of the spokespersons, it's good that you first read your statements, not what your advisers tell you. What the spokesman of the Socialist Party said is that a new plea is needed to increase the environmental levels in Nostián and to improve the working conditions of the workers of the plant. That's what he said, that's not what he told you. And if you're so worried, and you're going to the Town Hall of Coruña, because it would be nice for us to go ahead, because today is the day of making announcements, which you would do with Nostián if he was mayor in Coruña, because he will have a model in Coruña with respect to Nostián. Well, as it is the day of announcements, exclusively, it would be good for you to do it. You, Counselor, have made the appearance shorter since the beginning of the legislation. Which is nothing but an example of what you came here saying absolutely nothing. Just like Mr. Trenor, who's been talking about five minutes, but no circular economy, and the other five just talked about recycling, nothing more. He even said that recycling data is increasing. What data? Because the data has to be given. You cannot say if you increase the data, you have to say what the data is. And the data are: Yellow container, in 2010, a 9.7% was recycled; in 2017 — seven years later — a 10.5%, we didn't even climb a point, and in Spain a 14%. Blue container, in 2010, was recycled by 14.5%; in 2017 — seven years later — a 12.9%, the same level as in 2005, with that terrible government presided over by Emililo Pérez Touriño — how sad that you went 13 years ago! — and in Spain a 16.1%. That's the data. And we're at 21.3% of waste re-use. That's the data, the data that Ecoumbes gives, and that you accept as valid, because yesterday your CEO of Environmental Quality met with Ecoumbes representatives. Counselor, we propose to extend the circle: We want a new economy that prevents and controls pollution, also light. Put him there to talk. Well, Mr. Trenor can tell you because he was at that meeting. We want better waste treatment, it's necessary something more than that of "And who are you from?"that's very good for primary children, but something else better is essential. We want you to introduce return and return deposit management systems, which in Germany have been working for decades, and work very well. Not only the green container for the glass, but also the return of the glass so that it can be reused. We want to incorporate the fight against energy poverty, not only with those social policy measures that you are also responsible for, but with something like the energy check or something like that. We want a fairer tax system. In fact, new taxes. Green, green. Something more than "who contaminates, pays"; who contaminates, pays, and restores what it has contaminated. Even those who are left with money that is not theirs, they must also be returned when they are convicted. Whoever defiles, pays, and not only contaminates the one who can afford to pay. And you can't only use taxes as a deterrent and not a collection tool. We need environmental reform that unifys taxes. For example, adding the wind cannons and the air pollution in our autonomous community, which the experts say would not be bad. We want clean vehicles...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u33	...... yes, I will finish—nearly train, electrification of transport. We want more renewable energy. In 2006, counsellor, we were pointers, and now we're under half the table in the rest of Spain. It would be nice if they would remove the sun tax, let Mr. Mariano tell his cousin, Mariano Rajoy's cousin, that it would be good to eliminate the sun tax. And we want you to put your focus on the value of the mountains in forest policy. Because all this is circular economy, counselor, not only come to Parliament making announcements of "You're already spring in The English Court.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u35	Well, to speed up what I have to say about Mr. Trenor's intervention: glad to talk about the Crown and corruption with you, whenever you like, because in both things comparisons leave me very easy. To be quick: my son had a time playing pokémon hunting with his mobile and he wanted to go to the Coruña, which they told him there were many pikachus there, but since May 2015 he can no longer hunt pikachus in the Coruña; that's a very small difference. So I'm leaving him there. For something you're in opposition to the Coruña. Well, Counselor, you announced a new waste law. They met some of the vigors, because the Galician Waste Plan, which ended in 2020, spoke about an essential issue for the environmental sustainability of waste management, and it was decentralisation. It's obvious. That may be said by Mr. Labandeira too, and may also speak of environmental taxation by Mr. Labandeira. But it's normal, we have a system where trucks travel miles and kilometers to get to Sogama's power station, and that's why the waste plan approved by you — I think I remember — was talking about the necessity of decentralization, and for that it proposed eleven composting plants distributed across the country. How many will this country end in 2020? With one and thanks; one of eleven, Counselor. So you can't come here pretending to be a Sogama model. Because you can announce new laws, you can announce draft campaigns, you can do advertising and propaganda here, but they've been ruling for a few years, right? And we have the right to monitor what you did in government. And you should come here too to balance your government management. But of course, I can't force her; I ask her earnestly, but I can't force her. And the data, after many years of popular government, are that in the center of Sogama is recycled 3,32% of the tons that are managed there and that 72% are incinerated, and that greenhouse gas emissions are increased by increasing incineration. So that's the model you're betting on, which is not a model for reducing material consumption. On the other hand, reality is so stubborn. Perhaps in that draft that will be presented tomorrow, which is the only thing you have... you said here that I said you didn't talk about transport, mobility, urbanism, services... you said there were groups that were preparing a draft. But I meant that in all these sectoral policies, I think having an integral conception of what the economy is, you should leave the seal in the elaboration of the soil law, you should say something about the model of biomass power plants that are being done, you should say something about the thermals, you should say something about the infrastructure model and you should say something about all these issues that are where the major resource consumptions of this country are located. Because if you came here to talk seriously, the first thing you had to start with is where we have the great resource consumption, where we have the great emissions of greenhouse gases, and from there you act where there's the most margin to act. But you're not willing to touch anything that would mean the reduction of profits from big companies. And that's what lies behind him asking questions such as the issue at the hostel, in small businesses, but not speaking here about the thermal power stations, which cause — I insist — a third of the greenhouse gas emissions. So talk to Mr. Labandeira, who is a great environmental tax expert, and ask him what it seems to you to be covered here — I think the latest data I know are from 2016 — EUR 4.5 million for air pollution in a country where we have two thermal plants that cause one third of the greenhouse gas emissions. Ask him if that's a tax tax that achieves the objectives for which he was created, which is to create the conditions for reducing those emissions. Also, resource consumption. You could also talk here about the soil, which is also a limited and nonrenewable resource. Where are the landscape guidelines, Counselor? Mr. Feijóo promised they would be approved in 2017. Where are they? And in the meantime, they're installing wind farms or projecting the installation of wind parks, which will be consumed when these landscape guidelines are approved. That's why I'm telling you that the true advisor seems to be Mr. Tahoces, who always passes over you in every one of these circumstances: in mining, energy, etc. It's the impression that you're seeing the facts. So if you want to be serious, talk about Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u37	In Catalonia they've passed a law to fight against climate change now, and here we don't even have a draft. If you want to be serious, we're going to be serious, Counselor, but don't come here to have your hair on the House. You, in your government action, don't take into account the integral conception of what the circular economy means, or apply yourself in an integral way, or you will only apply to secondary and minor issues in the consumption of material resources.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u39	I'm done. You talk about very rough words, new paradigm. Of course, when you use big words, that's a new paradigm, because you should also talk about important issues, as I told you, and you refused to talk here. By the way, you have another opportunity to say why you voted in favour of the privatization of the land of Solana at the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Mr Trenor López has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u41	Thank you, President. I have no children, and I don't think I'm trying but for now there's no luck, but surely your son, Mr. Sánchez, has left some game, but he's probably now master of monopoly, and he'll be very lucky when he wants to sell those apartments that you'll at some point leave him. [[Murmurs.]] He didn't explain to you whether 40% of the aid line, main, fundamental, the vertebrate axis of his housing policy, had gone to a director of his organization, 40%, and he didn't say anything at all. And you come here to embarrass this. I could make jokes and play jokes like Mrs. Vilan does. I could say you're coming here to piss in Parliament. But talk about what's happening these days. Why don't you talk about that 40% that's dedicated to your rowmate and matchmate? Talk about it, talk about it. Shut up, he's mute. You're dumb, and I don't know if it's because you share it or because you're afraid. Any of those things in politics aren't good, they're bad. Nervous? Mr Bará, for nothing, we're not nervous here. I understand that politics is to be when you have the confidence of citizens, and then each one must return to his own activity. I understand that when someone has made politics his way of life, when you've been here for more than 20 years, for I suppose he'll be more nervous. It's not my case, and that's why it's all nervous. And when he speaks one and asks for respect. Home!, calling the spokesperson of the majority group is not very respectful. It's not very respectful, and you fill your speeches always, always, always, with disqualifications, pulleys and disrespect. Then don't ask for what he can't. I know. I asked him if he knew how much it was that you were sending Sogama, and he didn't tell me. And he didn't say how much he's sending Nostián and how much he's sending Lousam. Do you know how much it is? Over 50 percent and up to 60 percent. And that seems perfect to you. And you're talking about a zero-kilometre in Pontevedra. Pontevedra is in record of shipments to Sogama. It's on record! So I don't know why you say zero kilometer. Zero kilometer, what? Four little things you create there, or your house that's under there -- I don't know -- from the laundry room. Because that's the reality. At home, perhaps, it goes very little, but the city's largest percentage of waste goes to Sogama. But you mute, you said absolutely nothing. [[Applause]] It is better to come here, miss it and insult the rest of the Members. Of course you do! That's right, then we all have very fine skin and here we are lying on the floor: alas, alas, you disrespected me, mayor! Sorry, Counselor. I think so and sometimes you confuse reality with what you'd like, but, well, it's a good thing. [[Laughter]] Look, I'm not missing the point of saying that. [[Applause]] Together has shown its commitment to the fight against climate change by betting on energy efficiency, boosting and improving collective transport or, for example, controlling industrial emissions, and also by activating measures that facilitate knowledge about the phenomenon of its consequences, in order to minimize, mitigate and manage its possible effects in Galicia. We want to place ourselves at the vanguard of knowledge on climate change. And we're also going to achieve this through the strategy of fighting climate change and energy 2050, which has invited all agents to set the main lines of action in the fight against this phenomenon. Complementaryly, in an aggregate manner, at the same time, we will put in place the Galician environmental sustainability strategy and the circular economy, focused on creating an efficient, sustainable and low-carbon economy. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as the advisor explained, the transition to a circular economy offers great opportunities for Europe, Spain and of course also for Galicia. We have the challenge of modernizing and transforming our economy by moving it into a more sustainable direction. But it also brings together important energy savings and environmental benefits, creates local jobs and creates new opportunities for social integration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u43	It must be borne in mind that the progressive implementation of this system requires efforts and many fronts and in many directions, both public and private, and will also involve changes and reforms of the regulatory framework. And, ultimately, we need everyone's involvement to face a reality that we want to change our community. And I say the same thing that I've already told you on another occasion: you can work together, you can join this through the laws that will come to Parliament, also by making those places where they rule if they really add up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u45	...and that they don't play Cheminova or anything else, but they do real politics...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u47	...and add to this great strategy. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mato Otero has the floor of the Councillor for the Environment and Planning of the Territory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u49	Thank you very much, President. During this debate I have somehow tried to see the commitment of the Government of Galicia to the implementation of its environmental policies, specifically in waste management and even in the implementation of the circular economy. Well, different statements have been made by representatives of the political groups, and the truth is, I'd like to correct, if possible, some of them. There is nothing further from the reality that since the Council is doing no boycott to the implementation of urban waste management than from the Pontevedra Town Hall or even from the Pontevedra Deputy if you are building on the subject of composting. Nothing further because, indeed, from this council, we believe it is perfectly compatible to use organic waste management, in this case based on composting, with other models. And so we believe that precisely on the Sogama plant — which is to which the Pontevedra Town Hall mostly sends all its organic wastes — we are dealing with these organic wastes, those of 95% of Galician municipalities, in the most environmentally efficient way and also economically. And even now we're also about to finish a new composting plant, which will come true in a few months and which will deal with 15,000 tons. So I think this is a correction which I would like to make clear. As for the second speech by the spokesman of the Socialist Party, no, they told me nothing, Mrs Vilán, about the statements by the spokesman of the Socialist Party in the city of Coruña. They didn't tell me because they don't need it; nowadays, the networks, the truth is, they have that ease of giving a lot of interventions. In this case I had the opportunity to listen to her completely. So, I invite you to listen to it, because indeed, if you talked about nails and said everything I just said about your refusal to have the waste go to a private dump from Nostián, when you have Sogama next to you and you could use Sogama. I invite you to listen to him because, as I say, he's on the net. And I also listened very carefully to his pollution with regard to the issue of light pollution. It seems you spoke yesterday to someone who told you that there is also light pollution. Look, this is not the first time this autonomous community has known the situation that our community is experiencing in the field of light pollution. And, in fact, not only did I have the opportunity to talk about it, but I also had the opportunity in the January 2017 Fitur, in particular, to be the only autonomous community that has two Starlight destinations precisely, because in the Town Hall of Veiga and the Cyastic Islands we have two enclaves that do not exist throughout the country with less light pollution. Therefore, Mrs. Vilán, a little respect in that sense when you make statements that seem to have been heard yesterday. And with regard to Mr Sanchez's intervention. I like it when he says, well, you talk about bringing a new law into this parliament in the next period, which is a waste law. But what you have to do is comply with the laws! And tell me a representative of En Marea: to comply with the laws! Which is the same thing that tells me: you don't authorize this urban waste management plant, you don't authorize this, you don't authorize it... look, this meeting and this political group always comply with all the laws, they like it or they don't like it. Not as your spokesperson for En Marea, who is still his spokesperson. We always keep the laws, we don't choose them whimsily. I don't like it. I don't like it. I like it and I do it. No, we always do and strictly process, according to the current legislation, the processing of all environmental authorizations from any file. You, on the one hand, come here and put your mouth together and say, "Keep the laws!" and then they say, "Don't authorize!" Let's see, man, let's be a little serious. But it's true that from there it's one thing and when you're in government it's another completely different. For my part, what I really want to see is once again — and trying to be as clear and respectful as possible — is that the Union has a firm and determined commitment to the implementation of the circular economy in an absolutely comprehensive way with all the councils and different areas involved from its origin in all its proceedings, and, of course, covering — as I say — all sectors that directly affect the implementation of the circular economy and all sectors that directly affect the fight against climate change. I'm not the one who thinks you can work and manage a country without a roadmap. And that's why I think it's absolutely essential to have our roadmap, the roadmap of Galicia, in the matter of circular economy, and for that, the strategy of circular economy; in the matter of fighting against climate change, and for that, that strategy; and also in the matter of sustainability. There will be two documents beyond the definition of goals, challenges, challenges that our community faces, they must also have proposals and actions of a cross-cutting nature that will cover the whole Union of Galicia, the rest of the administrations and society as a whole. And indeed, we can assume that in our community we have privileged minds, like Mr. Labandeira — at the University of Vigo — but we also have the opportunity to work alongside other autonomous communities. And only Galicia, together with Valencia and Catalonia, today are the three out of the seventeen communities in the country — three — who are working on the implementation of the Circular Economics Programme in our country, and even the use of European funds. I think it's important that Galicia be there, and that's why the seventeen Galician communities are sitting on that work table. And, of course, beyond having those roadmaps and beyond that, we actually like — and so do — to comply with the laws, when something understands that must be improved and adapted to the 21st century we also move in that direction. And that is why I announce here in Parliament the entry into the next session of a new waste law, which today is already in a draft, and that we will try, as I say, to bring it in the next session, and that it will be a modern law, updated to the 21st century and indeed also innovative. And we will continue with our own objectives, and even in collaboration with Ecovidrio, Ecoembes and any other entity linked to waste management, such as the batteries or electrical and electronic devices, to advance the still-needed awareness of society as a whole, awareness and environmental education. And that's why he was talking about a new initiative, which is the Greening initiative, to improve the environmental behavior of the Greeks, specifically in areas that we understand are sensitive, such as hospitality, such as commerce, such as schools, schools with children, and of course also festivals, that in our community are developing all the events and events. And for which we are now presenting the guides of good practice that must be developed in trade, in the hostel, in schools and in the festivals of our community. Finally, we have a great challenge ahead. I believe that this is a challenge that is important enough to get it out with as much consensus as possible. None of the environmental actions have an immediate impact, they are high-level policies, they are medium- and long-term policies, which must be developed and continued over time. And that's why we've been here since the Galician Union, ready to close the circle, walking towards that new model of circular economy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u50	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the next point, to motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the actions to be carried out by the Council of Galicia in order to avoid the consequences on the Greek financial market of the possible disappearance of the Banco Pastor as its own entity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u51	No amendments were tabled to this motion. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u52	Good morning to all and to all. Greeting also our guests and guests, workers of this entity we're going to talk about today. Well, a few weeks ago in the previous plenary we were talking about how in the last decade, and since several financial bubbles broke out around 2008, the financial sector has been going through multiple changes and changes that have transformed both its configuration and the role of banking entities in our society. Years later — ten years later — we can confirm these issues that the nationalists have already warned: on one side, that their consequences go far beyond the momentary setting and that they currently live, and that the response of the big state parties, drawn up in those major pacts of banking restructuring at the state level, far from being the solution, have ended up being an open way to more problems. Because the response to the lack of regulation was more deregulation, less intervention and less control, in the opposite direction just than we had to walk. After a while, we can also contrast the evidence of the result: the loss of identity and linkage with the territory of the entities and also the loss of financial capacity in our country, but also consequences in society itself, both in terms of employment and from the perspective of the clientele. The privatization and banking of the boxes, the sale at the balance price of Novagalicia Bank to foreign capital, the past absorption of the Pastor by the Popular or the absorption of the Galician Bank by Sabadell are some of the most relevant facts that, together with the issue that focuses on our initiative, explain the panorama we have in 2018. We saw, less than a year ago, the definitive passage of a process of banking concentration and loss of galleguity from entities that leaves us a country with a level of banking concentration that exceeds the Spanish average, but which also exceeds the European average. We all remember how, at the price of a coffee with milk, Santander bought the Popular, the group that had already absorbed the Pastor and that was the second bank operator in Galicia after Abanca; a purchase, in addition, that was favored by a bursatile fall with many shadows, shadows that are still pending to investigate, because precisely the operators, the supervisors who were created to monitor these types of issues made the same mistakes as with Bankia or that with the crisis of the Greek boxes. This process, from the point of view of the nationalists and the nationalists, shows once again that this bank restructuring and that financial ransom was disproportionately expensive and sterile, despite the fact that the Greeks and the Greeks are still paying for it today. When a year ago the headlines of all the newspapers eased with this sale, there was an apparent consensus, there was an apparent meeting point in which this was bad news for the Greek economy. And that's what made it easier for us in this House to remember a number of issues that seemed to concern us and compromise us all and all. I remember how, from this bench, if I were told we didn't politicize, that we had a country position, that we had to avoid the debate on other foundations where we had discrepancies for the urgency of the moment and so on. And we're in. We, with good will, have joined together to reach agreements in this House in favour of issues that I will report, but the People's Party, once again, and its group of government disagreed, and, in the face of this absolute resolve, as we warned from the BNG, we will not allow it and we will not allow its consequences to be neglected, especially because we have already insisted that many of them would not be from night to morning. In the previous plenary session, in our interpellation, we openly asked the Greek Government what it had done for this question, and the answer was not to be able to make a single concrete step. The only reference he made was to a description of the competition situation. And today we bring white proposals about black so you can rectify them. There's a question that we find urgent, because time is running out, and workers are demanding too. A few weeks ago, we knew Santander's firm decision to liquidate the Pastor's brand, eliminating the bank card and its own structure and, therefore, making this entity disappear as such definitely at the end of this year as it is too late. Here's a key question. We demand that you do your best to keep this mark and this bank card. Obviously, the Galician Union cannot make a decree tomorrow in the CEO where it orders this matter. But it's no less, and what you can do is start diplomatic relations, engage in negotiation, an intermediary that can favor an exit. Not in vain a few months ago we saw Mr. Núñez Feijóo publicly pulling out in the media that he was talking to Mrs. Botín for these purposes. Now we see that, as far as we can see, it must not have been convincing, but we also see absolute relaxation on the part of the Galician Union. From our point of view, as this issue is no longer in the press every day, as they don't have this issue on top every day, because they just adopt that Popular Party strategy to be profiled and let problems go unimpeded. But we think that's not a good way and we demand a correction, also an implication regarding the maintenance of employment. I insist that workers and workers are very concerned about this issue and that there too the Galician Union has a mediation capacity that it is not using. I want to remember, first, that this is not a new situation for all of them and them, that all entities in the current Santander group have already experienced ERE and important dismissals earlier; that, in addition, this adds to the worsening that in this decade there have been the working conditions of this sector, increasingly precarious and vulnerable. And we also have to see what a picture we have. In Galicia, adding the staff of Popular, Pastor and Santander, there are about 2,300 workers and workers. This is a huge figure. Any ERE should worry us, any dismissal should worry us, but we're talking about a very significant figure. In addition, a number that extends if we take into account telemarketing companies that do associated services, insurance and real estate companies that do services associated with these banking institutions. And reality is worrisome, because there's a duality of bank offices that's not smaller. Popular and Pastor add 231 throughout Galicia and Santander, 174. It's easy to see what's going to happen. There'll be more redundancies and office closures. I want to emphasize that this question, office closures, is not just a problem in the labour fabric — that too — but this is to exacerbate so much the financial exclusion in our country, especially in the countryside, which is where they will disappear mostly, and will contribute to exacerbating that vulnerability, which is growing in our society, in the face of the new forms and products that place banking entities, because fewer offices will involve fewer points than going to be cared for and cared for, and also a smaller offer. And this has an impact on consumption, which also the Galician Union absolutely disregards its exclusive competences — I would like to remind you — in this matter. At first, I want to remember that in our country there were more than 50,000 Greek shareholders, of whom many were deceived and deceived, some of them workers and workers who were instigated to do this kind of stock purchases. And at this time Galician Union didn't do anything about it either. Nevertheless, despite the paron of Justice also caused by that strike which the Galician Union has contributed not to unraveling, however, we already know the first judgments in Galicia that have already cancelled shares purchases by the expansion of the capital, which already understand that there has been a violation of the right to information and a violation in reporting on the actual financial state of this entity. And this, on the one hand, is a joy, because it's an open door for many people, but on the other hand, it's quite sad to see how, once again, as happened to the ground clauses, as happened to so many financial sector issues, it's the individual way, it's the path of Justice that opens up some kind of path and not the way of public administrations' commitment in this matter. We think this needs to be corrected, because not everyone has the opportunity to be able to take this individual and legal route. That is why we propose that the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition develop a reinforcement programme in which it creates specific benchmarks for this issue, which should be a concern — as I say — of the Government of Greece for a year. Precisely, I insist that almost a year ago this sale was consumed. The Greek Government had enough time to arbitrate measures ever since, but devoted itself to that ostrich strategy and not to itself. We also demand measures for another constant which is a claim by our group, which is to put in place questions to solve the difficulty in accessing credit. Of course, with the disappearance of this entity itself, there will be fewer doors to be called by small and medium-sized enterprises and also by individual consumers themselves. In short — and finished — that the People's Bank, the People's Shepherd, perhaps we could call it — ceases to be Greek, to have fixed, own entity, will have consequences in the immediate future and in the face of what needs to be done. Galicia loses financial muscle. We're moving forward in a concentration process you've got...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u54	...—and finished— important consequences on consumption, on the economic fabric and here and now and immediately in the coming months on the workers and workers of these entities. And in the face of this, neither this Parliament nor the German Government can remain more impatience, without doing anything at all to remedy it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Losada Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u56	Good morning, gentlemen. Well, I'm not going to talk about Eduardo Zaplana. [[Murmurs.]] I want to begin by greeting the union representatives of the Banco Pastor and I want to begin by quoting a French philosopher named Tzvetan Todorov, who, in his book The New World Disorder, said exactly: "Governments seem to inform almost always accusing" — "Biparty— or excusing" — that crisis that is not known who produced — "more concerned about convincing than seeking the truth". And reality is complex enough to illustrate any thesis. We have been here a long time in this Parliament talking about the crisis of the financial system and the direct and indirect consequences it has had in the Autonomous Community. The Socialists will, of course, support the initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, which basically focuses, although not only on the case of the Pastoral Bank and the purchase first by the Popular and, subsequently, the gift to the Santander Bank. And so I'm going to focus on a slightly more transversal view of what's happened to the financial system of this autonomous community. We can all agree that the fundamental symbolic value of the financial system is trust, the trust of all economic, social and labor agents involved in financial activity itself. And I want to put three examples of how this trust is -- let's say -- systematically collapsed in the processes that we live in in this autonomous community. The first was the merger process of Galician savings banks. Non-existent KPMG audit. Anyway, we've all seen the press in recent times and we know perfectly well what we're talking about. Of course, we're talking about something absolutely right. Trust, zero. The second process had to do with the sale of Novagalicia Banco to the Venezuelan financial group at that time Banesco. And again there are foreign names, angles, or in this French case: BNP Paribas, McKinsey. Again, reports, again audits, again the FROB and again mistrust, because until now no one has explained the reasons why that bank Novagalicia Bank has sold itself in an absolutely express way—logo we will see the financial results of that sale— whereas others, like Bankia, are still in the hands of the FROB. The second example is paradigmatic of distrust. And the third is that it already has to do with the People's Bank's resolution. And here we have, on the one hand, Deloitte; on the other hand, Price Waterhouse, from the perspective of BBVA to buying the People's Bank, and again, absolute lack of transparency. Neither the Single Resolution Board of the European Union nor the FROB itself, nor the single banking monitoring mechanism, have convincingly explained the reasons why these events have occurred that we are talking about. And in this context the interpellation of the full past I think it was paradigmatic. I always say that the interventions of the members of the German Government advance in the lines of economic knowledge from then on to this humble deputy. In an autonomous community in which five banking entities have 90% of the market and two have 70% of the market, Mr. Fanda's advisor devoted almost five minutes to saying that there is no oligopolitical problem in Galicia's financial system. He said it without any noise, he said it with absolutely foreign reasons, as no company has a dominant position. No, two have 70%. I don't know exactly where the dominant position is. He said the online banking generation opened up competition to all entities. I'm sure a widow who covers the minimum pension of Chandrexa de Queixa is conceived directly, via the Internet, with Chase Manhattan in New York and has all his financial services there. He also said that entities can distinguish each other in a perfect way — textually — manner. And he also said there's strict regulation and supervision. See the cases of those he was talking about until the moment. Then he also said — and this I think is the most immoral — that the reduced margin would be very small margins, that it would be a highly competitive environment. I'd like to know why, then, these banks have the benefits they have. Because the benefits — and I speak thirty seconds of those benefits, I return to Banca — meant for this entity, in the four years closed, by some four years closed, with the report itself audited by KPMG — yes—, 2,188 million euros, in four years, of benefits, when it cost 1,003 million euros. This is a question that someone should explain and that someone should, in order to provide confidence to the system, realize it. And then they attend, too, in a rather surprising way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u58	...—end—an article published by the spokesperson of the People's Party this weekend, two articles in fact, in which it refers to that all this was done very well, because there is also an academic work in theory. And as I find that the voicer is an academic, you know perfectly well that the jobs paid by who is part of the work because let's say that its academic impact, its plausibility diminishes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u59	Finish, please, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u60	...on the impact of Banca's GDP on the German GDP. I'd like to know if you think there would be no credit to the financial system in Galicia if you weren't Abanca...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u62	...because, unfortunately, that's what this report says. So lack of trust and, unfortunately, a financial situation far worse than the year 2017.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea Mr. Lago Peñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u64	Good morning. I want to start by having a word of remembrance for Carlos López Crespo, sharing the sadness of his personal family and his political family, because even though we were in the ideological antics Carlos López Crespo was a person who made himself want. On Monday, April 23, Isabel Tocino and four others who formed the Governing Council of the Pastor Bank formalized the decision to finalize the entity. Isabel Tocino, five months president of the entity to liquidate two hundred and forty-two years of history. Because since Isabel Tocino signed that record, the Banco Pastor no longer has his own structure, he has no board of directors, he has no bank records, he has no registered office. It's just a trademark that will disappear over 2019 when the labels of the Santander Bank leave the workshops and replace those that still remain in the offices of Banco Pastor. End of story. End of two hundred and forty-two years of history of a bank that was able to overcome World War I, the 29th Crack, Franco's military coup No. 36, World War II, franchise, post-war, autarchy, entry into the European Union, the banking restructuring process that hit the Spanish financial sector of the 1990s. He was able to overcome all this, but he was not able to overcome the lost decade. Because it's true that the bank disappears as a result of its own mistakes, of bad direction, but it's also true that much of its disappearance has to do with the Spanish financial oligopolie's decision to concentrate banking power on two or three entities. Settlement operation in which you counted on the complicity of central governments and the Galician Union, some by action and others by default. The price we're paying as a country is huge. This is either in terms of job destruction, or in terms of financial exclusion, or in terms of strengthening oligopolie, loss of capacity to finance businesses and individuals, and hence the potential for economic growth. Because financial institutions are a fundamental instrument in the economic structure of any country. And Galicia has lost three entities in recent years that have a central role in the development capacity of the Greek economy. In 2009 — not so much — they worked at Banco Pastor 4,112 people. Today they only reach a thousand, and tomorrow they'll still be fewer than those who keep their jobs in the offices of the Santander Bank over the next few years. We lost 3,000 jobs, three out of every four of them before we started liquidation. Well-paid jobs, with indefinite contracts, in high value added activities, which disappear as a result of the closure of central services and the intense reduction in the number of offices. A brutal retreat, of employment, of activity, of financing the Greek economy, which is accompanied by the precarious working conditions of those who still remain in the sector. Deterioration which explains that the financial activities contributed before the recession of 4.3 % of the German GDP and now only reach 3%. In the balance of the lost decade — the one we were talking about the other day — which began in 2009, together with the destruction of employment, the increase of poverty and inequality, in addition to deindustrialization, we also have to incorporate three Greek financial entities that were among the 20 most relevant entities throughout the state. Because that makes us weaker, less resourceless, less capacity for growth and a more dependent country. An overwhelming balance for the Greek Government, which first celebrated the merger of the boxes, which ended with its liquidation; which valued as a positive outlet when the Popular bought the Pastor, and which assumed in this management gallery to maintain the patron's own brand and structure when the Santander bought the Popular. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what was that letter to Botín?, what was it about the commitments of the President of Galician Union in this chamber? Will you give an explanation, will you excuse me, will you apologize? I'm done. I ended by recalling that it was a leader of the People's Party, Isabel Tocino, who shared ministers' council with Eduardo Zaplana, who signed the death record of a Welsh financial entity with two hundred and forty-two years of history.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. Mr Puy Fraga has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u66	Very briefly, I want to thank Mr. Spokesman Abel Losada for reading me in the press. I appreciate it. I'm very honored. And I also thank you for your publicity to my modest journalistic contributions. Mr. Lago, I'd like to tell you that when I talk about the survival of the Pastoral Bank during the franchise that coordinates your message with your group when you talk about the prayer of the palace of Meirás, because if you don't, we can have contradictory images. When we talk about the financial system, in any circumstances related to the financial system, I think it is fundamental, especially after what we have just heard, to make some contextualization of why the financial system of Galicia, Spain, the whole European Union and all over the world is changing. There are, of course, conjunctural causes: a deregulation process caused a crisis and the disappearance of entities as a result of the financial crisis was common to the world. Looks like they just disappeared in Galicia. And in the Netherlands they disappeared since 2008 sixty-eight financial institutions, forty-three in Spain, forty-two in Greece and thirty-nine in France. So it's a process that doesn't just reach our country. And, of course, all the decisions that are being taken because they have to do with, among other things, conjunctions, with conjunctural circumstances, such as the types of interest in the Central Bank, the reduction of margins and solvency requirements in the new entities with the new regulation, which ensures much better security and confidence in a system, because they make the problematic assets inherited from real estate goodness translate into more supplies, more capitalization. And there are also structural causes, because here's a reference to the Complaints Chain. But the data — which are from Eurostat — are that in Spain they already use the digital system for payment — has told you exactly the figure — 54% of the people who use banks; they already use, they already make payments through digital banks. This is certainly an important percentage. But don't take into account the technological and deep transformation and the change, therefore, what is given to the management of a financial entity, where more than half of its customers already use and access seven days a week, twenty-four hours, every day of the year the financial services, because certainly changes a lot the situation, especially since we talk about the bank in historical terms. Financial institutions have adapted. This has actually resulted in a reduction in offices — that is well known — in Spain and Galicia. In Galicia 40% of the workshops have been abolished in recent years, since the transformation process began, and financial institutions have certainly disappeared. I want to remember that, without entering into some issues that were mentioned, such as being still subject to judicial proceedings, the People's Bank had two alternatives: one was executed and the other was a liquidation process. Yesterday in the press, there was an example of liquidation in Spain, the only bank that got liquidated in Spain, which was the Bank of Madrid, which was a bank that didn't have the situation or close to the People's Bank, and that three years later it's still not closing the liquidation process. We know that the shareholders lost 100 percent of all they had as shareholders. The Deposit Guarantee Fund has already secured deposits under EUR 100,000 and the other depositors will have to accept discharges; all this is already public. And the People's Bank, which was bigger, was in a situation with a much more damaged balance. I would like to recall that the Deposit Guarantee Fund has calculated that the guarantee of deposits of the People's Bank, but also of the Pastor, of less than EUR 100,000 per deposit would cost the Deposit Guarantee Fund EUR 30,000 billion. No bank wanted to pull him, the difference from what happened to Abanca, by the way. And finally, it was the Banco de Santander, which I remember you paid for a euro, but you had to expand capital for 7 billion euros and mostly to sanitize the Banco Popular for 12,000 euros, which was the total sanitation introduced. And besides, 100 percent of the deposits were secured and no money was paid from the public resources. Certainly, that absorption, which is already public, causes the disappearance of the brand, which is still formally maintained, Pastor Grupo Santander. But the truth is that everything we said here when this sale was produced, which is approved by the House, how to ensure that the change in the property of Banco Pastor kept Galicia as little impact as possible on employment, is being complied with. It is true that the impact on the employment of this last absorption, and possibly by the work done before by the entities when they were not together, was minimal. It is true that we ask him to be seen by the foundation, and that we know the foundation at the moment has not expressed any circumstance that endangers his situation. And the fact is that the president when he appeared on this camera has overcome the situation of the employees.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u68	We showed our solidarity then. Let's go back and repeat it now. And, of course, for the news we have because it certainly is not a traumatic process, alien to the will of the workers. Disappearance of the mark? For us it would be a mistake, simply, but the owner, of course, will make the last decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. We greet the first students of the ESO of the IES Manuel Chamoso Lamas, of the Carballino, who have just entered the session hall. You have the word to finish this point by the motion's author group Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, the part of economic history is very good, intellectually very enriching. We can discuss the perspective that everyone has, too, depending on their ideology. But our initiative today goes something else, it doesn't matter whether liquidation or sale was better than whether it was a solution or something. That's already happened. What it's all about is whether we have a government or whether we have a match, Mr. Puy. If we have a government that is involved in agreements with those who have been engaged in this chamber, when this is a problem for him, and of those we have no record that anything has been done, beyond the issues I have already mentioned, of these corridor conversations with Mrs. Botín. [[Applause]] Because, of course, you come here and tell us that like whoever's done everything, who's kept their commitment to employment. That contrasts with the legal representation of workers and workers, who were concentrated 15 days ago demanding a statement from the Galician Council that has not yet arrived. And that also contrasts with the result of the interrogation we had with the counsellor, and that you've almost come to repeat. He gave no explanation for what they did about the loss of jobs and others. Because, for example, I think it's very good that we take digital transformation into account. But, man, that's like saying that, of course, in today's day as the head doctor you can call by phone too and you can be attentiond on time by telephone, something that nobody denies that in the 21st century is sometimes practical for certain issues, but one question is that and another question is to walk towards a model where for medical attention or banking attention to the explanation, product care and so on because you have to call a telephonist who cares about you from Colombia or from God's place. So we seem to pervert that question a little bit. Nor did he explain again why they refuse to improve the mechanisms from the scope of consumption on the part of the Greek Government, why eternally on this issue or on some others that have been put on the table the People's Party systematically votes against that issue, a question that was also put on the table when we had this debate in June and which was not accepted. With the text in my hand, I would appreciate the agreement this Parliament has reached, but the question is that during this time what you have done has been to disregard your functions. I won't read you a piece of your article, Mr. Puy, but I'll quote you too. News from June 12th. Parliamentary spokesman of the Galician People's Party, Pedro Puy, stressed that "the Galician Union, through diplomatic relations, will seek to ensure that the damage to the sale of the People's Bank to Santander is as low as possible for the whole of employment and the Greek economy." Of course, it's about theory that we would sign that, but the reality is that, almost a year ago, we see that there's a government that looks like it hasn't done anything about it at all, and we see a picture of personnel that's absolutely worried and that you already know what's going to happen, and we also see the situation of duality of entities, and that this will leave us a much more complex reality from the point of view of customers and customers, from the point of view...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u71	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u72	...from the country's economic capacity and from the point of view of numerous families who will be mortgaged and who today, unfortunately, after coming to this House, will also sleep unannouncedly tonight because they see that there is no government committed to this issue. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P. motion. of Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with professional diseases
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u74	No amendments were tabled to this motion, and Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u75	Thank you, President. First of all, I think it's worth remembering today the worker from Tubacer who died unfortunately, who lost his life at his job last week. That even today we have to suffer this number of fatal accidents in our country is a real disgrace and has much to do with the absence of real policies on the prevention of occupational risks. So go ahead with respect to this worker's family and, of course, fight for decent conditions at work. We brought this motion today, after having appealed to the councillor in the past full, in an interpellation where we have already moved him that we have sat with the collectives of affected and affected by various occupational diseases. Today we must also greet those affected by exposure to asbestos and crystalline silica that are following this full. And we have already said in the previous plenary session, in that question, that this point was of extreme relevance to our parliamentary group. We understand that the situation of insecurity in employment, the situation of exposure to toxics and agents causing occupational diseases has to have a determined response from the Galician Union, which is not currently taking place. We are, therefore, in a context of deprotection of the working class at their workplace, as indicated by the data and we already indicated it, we remember it in the previous plenary session. The reduction in industrial jobs, unfortunately, is not accompanied by a reduction in industrial accidents or an increase in investment in the prevention of accidents of a labour force or an investment in the creation of stable employment. We lost 41,000 industrial jobs in Galicia and only have 0.9% of the board budget to create jobs, which, as you have already indicated in this House, is not even running 100%. In 2017, 9.17% of labour deficiency increased and 8.6% of occupational diseases in our country. They are data of extreme concern, at least for our parliamentary group, and nevertheless investment in occupational safety and health has accumulated a cut of 56% since 2009. That's a real barbarity, which can't be endured in our country. On this reality, in addition, the prejudices of exposure to agents causing occupational diseases that cause serious problems in the health of workers and workers and that are also at times causing public health problems. That's why we asked the Government in the previous plenary session and, however, far from expressing some concern about this intervention by the Industry Adviser, it moved practically that everything was doing well and that there was a proper health care for work. Frivolized in addition to the asbestos exposure. Mr. Industry Advisor said that, as there is no exposure, there is only risk, which has been banned since 2002, obviously, as you have been told, that we all know that the causes that motivate the disease come after an exhibition that happened ten, twenty or thirty years ago, and that there are, of course, multiple places where the asbestos is placed in infrastructures, without any kind of withdrawal plan. We today ask, in addition, in this sense, to draw up, of course, a map to know where the points are, the buildings that have that asbestos and to be able to progressively plan their withdrawal. It froliced with that circumstance, and frivolized by saying that there was no problem, that it was being handled correctly and that the care unit in Ferrol was also working correctly. We've already moved you to the interrogation that there were problems, because if you're increasing the waiting lists for interventions, that the current waiting for review is in two years and four months, when what's recommended is for the lightest cases an annual review, that you're deriving from patients, people attending that specific primary care unit to follow up on primary care, not in the specific unit, which had never happened since the unit was opened, and that you weren't doing the necessary tests to assess in the review on the same day of the test. I mean, there's an increase in the waiting list, there's a delay in testing, there's a derivation of patients from primary care, when they're patients who were treated in specialized care. So today we are asking, once again, to extend the human resources capacity of that care unit to the asbestos of Sergas, located in Ferrol, and, of course, to improve this situation. And we also ask that, for this and the rest of the risks, not only be drawn up the map of where asbestos is in our country, but a real and up-to-date map of the different occupational diseases and occupational risks in the territory of Galicia. We're talking about agents -- some -- who still exist -- that is, they have to be removed -- and others where there's direct exposure. And, in this circumstance, in the intervention of the counsellor frivolized with this subject, and yet later — this was the debate on May 8th — curiously, on 11th, the board of Galicia announced: "Health creates the Italian Register of Asbestos Labour Exhibition." I mean, three days before I told you that it wasn't necessary, that there was no exposure, frivolizing with cases of disease, and yet three days later I announced a specific record for asbestos cases; all a quick correction in the position of the Industry Council in this case. What about the rest of the business? While we were asking for that updated map and what we asked for today in the motion, we were also talking about the exposure to the impact of that crystalline silica, and the Industry Advisor also minimized the consequences of that impact by saying that measures were already being taken and that he was investing in modernizing the canteries of arids, slates and granites. And the reality is, in that sense, we believe that it's not being done properly. We had these days news of the exposure of the neighbors and neighbors by the transport of the arids themselves, and we also transferred that there was a gender bias in the case of the slaters and in the case of other women who worked with stone and worked with other materials. But we also indicated another series of problems related to this aspect, which we're going to deal specifically with in another initiative, and it's precisely the deprotection that workers have that are diagnosed with diseases related to exposure to silicosis, that are diagnosed in a degree 1, and that they can't access any kind of help in that sense. The Galician Union has to take some kind of measure to solve this situation, because these people have difficulty finding a job and they can't access any kind of help. It's a disease, besides, that attacks very hard health, that seriously incapacitates, and people getting younger and younger. And we moved to him that we have a report from Issga itself in 2016, which indicates that a rebound of this professional disease is being produced, also related to exposure to the use and placement of artificial stones with a high degree of silica artificially, such as cooking meals. We moved it the other day. And we have a very large sector and no measures are being taken, despite the fact that there is a specific report on Issga. We ask you on this initiative to broaden the attention of specific units, to create another unit in southern Galicia, not only for asbestos, but also to serve as caretakers and those affected by crystalline silica in a specific way, and that these people can be treated in a more specialized way. It's true that for lung transplants they now access the Crown, and the lung transplant service works relatively well, but there's no specific attention in the south of the province. We want both in the north and the south areas affected by asbestos work and those affected by crystalline silica work to be treated in a unit. And, of course, in this sense, that the Issga is endowed with means, because what can't happen is what's happening, that in recent years the accumulated budget cut for the Issga is 40%. You can't work under those conditions. We have specific reports from Issga, we have a job from the professionals who I think is very positive — and we must point out it here — and yet the Galician Union does not invest in the prevention and promotion of this health in the workplace and in the prevention of occupational risks. And, oh!, by chance, we bring this matter on May 8th and seven months without convening the specific table on silicosis in the Issga and today they call the table on silicosis in the Issga. Today they are gathered to deal with that issue. I'm glad that, thanks to the initiatives brought here, if you take some kind of action or at least start to take an interest in the subject. I'll finish now. We also call for a specific protocol for control, measurement and prevention of radon at the workplaces. We have a specific report from the University of Santiago de Compostela. The Galician Board is totally oblivious, and complaints have already been lodged at the Labour Inspectorate for not making the measurements of radon gas in the public buildings of the Galician Board. No measure has been taken. The Spanish State is in breach of the Euratom European Directive, which continues without delay. And another chance: we bring that matter to debate and, just ten days later, the Union announces that it is pushing measures for protection against radon. We want the Union to take it seriously once and for all this matter of safety at work, of health at work and of course also of public health and to take at least those measures that we are proposing today. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. To have the floor, by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u77	Good morning. I want to begin by expressing BNG's concern at the situation of deprotection in which even today — more than the year 2018, the 21st century — workers and workers are faced with certain occupational diseases, in general, but in particular on the subject we are dealing with, certain professional diseases. Since industrial revolutions there has been an improvement in the protection of labour rights and protection, but these improvements have always had to be broken down by the working class into capitalism, because of this chaos resulting from excessive inequality, and then social democracy has also been getting corrections of those inequalities, also for the sake of it, those labor, health or prevention improvements, but always because of that pressure of the working class, of the affected and the union representatives, but it has never really come to see a very worrying situation on the part of the administration. The recognition in legislation, the implementation of measures, was always, after a lot of pressure, after a lot of struggle, that was being picked up, after having to show the dramatic consequences and the loss of human lives, in the case of the diseases that occupy us today. BNG is concerned and busy about this issue, especially in the case of silicosis, but also in the case of asbestos. We have taken it on many occasions to this Parliament and to the Congress of Members, initiatives have been approved, but it has not been the subject of the government's concern. And we're seeing that today there's still a loss of human lives because of these occupational diseases and because of the direct illness contracted at the workplace, by the direct exposure of workers and workers at the workplace. The professional disease due to silicosis and asbestos was a battlehorse of trade union organizations in Galicia, because we are talking in present time and not of a reality that is declining. And that's what worries us very alarmingly. It's not that we're giving down figures; in the past they've been down, but in the present they're increasing. And that, of course, must have been a lot of concern, because, far from diminishing, the numbers of people affected are increasing. And we're talking about workers, basically -- there are workers -- male, young people, 30 and a few years old, 40 years old, who are being affected and dying. That is why, of course, we are going to support this initiative. We've also made initiatives in this direction. And we are seeing that there are breaches throughout the chain by the company, by the risk prevention services, by the mutuals, both in the implementation of prevention measures at the workplace and in health surveillance. They lack resources, they lack specific units and, in short, they lack concern and occupation by the Government, which only acts when there is real pressure, when the social alarm is triggered, and when one can actually put in the public opinion the cruelty of what we are talking about. We are -- I insist -- talking about people who are sick and people who leave their lives with very few years of life. I insist, there's a replay. In Galicia is historically associated with the slate — in the case of Valdeorras — or granite — in the Porriño, but we are talking about currently associated with another type — I am talking about the case of silicosis — of products, actually associated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u79	...the construction products and they're giving a typology with alarming issues. In the case of asbestos, we brought him here on a number of occasions too. In spite of the fact that there is a date on the part of the European Union, which speaks of 2028 as a date for the European Union to be free of asbestos, however, in view of that date, because it is not really putting the means on the table really so that this date will take similar measures in line with that theoretical claim. Of course, they worry about the elimination of asbestos, starting with public buildings, schools and so on, but then about health. And, of course, we see it as total neglect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u81	...and the denial of the problem. And really the problem isn't smaller and we just see that the alarm blow is going on. And, of course, besides supporting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u83	...—ending, President—this initiative, what we would ask of the Government is not only to act when there is a social alarm, but to act on its own initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u84	Thank you very much. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u85	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Welcome to the guests, too. If the economic crisis has been used as an excuse for all the cuts in the labour market, the fact is that the prevention of risks is the great damage within this environment, not only by the business sector itself, but also by the governments of Spain and the Government of the United States of Galicia as well. If labor reforms have introduced great precaution or have given rise to what already existed, they are also a fundamental cause of the situation that exists right now. But what is more, we have budget cuts, low cost policies in preventive matters that have been consolidated in recent years, both from the Government of Spain and from the Council of Galicia. And the data was given here, but we're going to repeat it. Since 2009, Issga's budget, which institute is so important and with great professionals who are not being given human resources or economic resources to develop their work, has reduced their budget by 40% since 2009. Not just Issga. The health and safety system improvement program itself has a reduction of approximately 34%. This reduction in accounts is having a negative impact on safety and health in the labour market. Incidence index of fatal accidents — we have been repeating it for two years — the fourth autonomous community with a higher incidence rate. And that's important, because we're talking about the number of fatal accidents in relation to the population you're contributing. Well, we're the fourth autonomous community. If the state average is 3.20 %, Galicia is 5.48 % in 2017, with a Welsh health and safety strategy from 2017 to 2020 that is completely cryogenicized and of which we have no news. And not only work accidents, it also affects occupational diseases, where the detection of these diseases has increased by 8%. And we asked ourselves: if with low resources you're detecting another 8%, what if you're investing what you've been investing before? Well, a lot of cases are being hidden. It's true that about asbestos, silicosis and all its forms we're not in the 1980s, we're not going to see workers with handkerchiefs in their mouths, who don't pass medical recognition. There are training courses, there are work clothes that are washed in specialized centers and not taken home. But it's true that all these advances, all of these efforts have been thanks to many families of the victims of silicosis and also to the class unions, for whom this parliamentary group wants to have a special mention today, because they were especially demanding and especially machacons in the need to put in place the Risk Prevention Act and all its development regulations, and especially those of biological agents, in this case, which was also fundamental to curbing the progress on this subject. [[Applause]] The truth is that this disease has a long shadow, which it seemed that the counselor himself did not see the other day. These are cases that occur forty years later. Despite the 2002 ban, unfortunately these cases will continue to appear. And Galicia is the autonomous community with more cases of silicone across Spain. Of the 164 cases detected throughout Spain, 55 were here in Galicia. Ourense is at the head of the detection of these cases, in the slate sector, and in the granite canisters of the south of Pontevedra. I mean, we have a serious problem about what to do. It's true we've seen these last few days watching the publicity and propaganda of that record. There is a register of companies and now a record of cases, the Reguela — if I am not mistaken — who is born with serious deficiencies and serious deficiencies — and we want to denounce it here today from the Socialist Group, because documentary evidence is being requested from the people exposed. And I'll set an example for you, ladies and gentlemen. Those workers, mostly men, carried their work clothes to their homes. Those who worked in the house mostly were women; women who also died — and for those who today I want to have a special mention — because they were also exposed to these materials; women who are even recognising that occupational disease through judicial judgements. Just like the spokesperson of the People's Party can explain to me which document of exhibition will have these women. And there's gonna be more problems than I understand we'll have time to talk. Besides, there's a compensation fund for the victims and their families who would have to be on the move. A bill driven by the House of the Basque Country, with the abstention of the People's Party, supported by all parliamentary groups except the People's Party, which would avoid having to go to the courts in these long processes that are still facing many families. Well, the processing of this law takes therefore eighteen pleas — my comrades and colleagues told me — at the Congress of Deputies, not to put in place a law that is fundamental to the victims and also to their families.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u87	Today we will support this initiative. We consider it necessary, as we have been involved in many initiatives during this legislation, to increase that budget, to have a detailed map and to give specific treatment to the southern area, but above all to end low cost policies in the area of prevention. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u89	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. The first thing I have to say is that the concern about safety and health at work is no one's monopoly, but it's a shared concern for all groups, and that, therefore, there are speeches with which we neither agree nor can we agree. It seems to me very self-centered to understand that Issga works because a parliamentary group presents initiatives. I think we should treat an institution like Issga, a school that, by the way, we create ourselves when we rule a few years ago. And that, therefore, we have that responsibility and that sensitivity that some of us have been denied. The health of workers is an absolutely priority issue for the German Government, for the majority group that supports it in this House. In fact, we have recently approved a Welsh occupational health and safety strategy for the 2017-2020 period, with annual plans for Issga, which include actions effectively related to occupational disease research and workers' health monitoring. The legislation on health and safety at work is increasingly demanding, and prevention is one of the fundamental foundations for these policies. I have to say that it is not true that there is a resurgence of occupational diseases or occupational accidents and that it is due to the situation of the labour market. It's not true. There are data issues that have just been given that are not true: neither are we the community with the highest rate of occupational diseases — we are not — nor are we in the case of accidents at work; nor are we in the case of fatal accidents — nor are we — these occur more often among temporary workers, as has been said. It's not true, it's not true. Of course, it is not tolerated from the German Government and from the Labour Inspectorate to the violation of the law, the non-compliance of the law, it is not tolerated. Work accidents, 2008-2017, minor accidents: in 2008, 49,500; in 2017: 20,680 — almost half—, a 46% reduction. Graves: 698, in the year 2008; in 2017, 437. Mortals: in 2008, 71; in 2017, 43. Totals, in 2008, 50,000; in 2017, 27,286. There are still a lot of people and we have to keep working for them to be reduced, but the proportion of the figures is that. Professional diseases, low in 2008, total, 915; in 2017, 765. The increase in cases of occupational disease must also be positive. It's a consideration that I think we should do, in the sense that there is a professional pathology that was previously considered a common disease. And, therefore, the statistics I think should be considered positive. It's not true that there is this reputation of professional diseases, as I have just demonstrated. The increase in the rate of occupational diseases is due to seizure campaigns from the Administration and greater control. In 2017 there were almost half of work accidents with low working hours than in 2008. That's the reality. And I have to say, in the face of catastrophic messages, that we cannot share that the Public Health System in Galicia does not guarantee quality care for all patients and also for those who suffer from occupational diseases. You can't say the opposite. About the budgets of Issga, I have to say that the budget in 2018 increases with respect to the previous year 3%. And if we look at the last two years, the budget increase in Issga is 10%, 10%. Don't tell me about the budget situation, because you left a budget inflated and today we have 2,000 million euros less than when you were in government, that you spent and there wasn't. And, therefore, it is quite incoherent to compare real budgets with unrealistic budgets, which was what the Socialist Party was running. I increase those budget shares of the Issga. I have to tell you that, in addition, the Galician Union dedicates EUR 10 million to safety and health at work, in support of actions to promote and prevent occupational risks. To reduce the exposure of silica powder, precisely, the Galician Union has put in place an aid of 3 million euros, which you do not consider; it may seem insufficient. I would like to tone the words that the counselor said, because we have all his intervention in the interpellation of the past, and the counselor what he said is that since December 2002, the use of asbestos is prohibited and that, therefore, the current exposure to asbestos is limited to the elimination activities precisely of the asbestos and the treatment of elements where asbestos exists, and that, therefore, where it acts to remove asbestos there is a preceptive report from the Isssga and that, therefore, if it is acting with absolute responsibility in this matter. There's a question that I think is contradictory in the initiative that In Marea proposes to us, when he talks about studying and planning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u91	...the opening of a new care unit to asbestos in the southern part of Galicia, possibly because I think it is inconsistent, because since the association that brings together those affected by the asbestos of what is being said, it is to create in the health area of Ferrol a reference center for all of Galicia. And possibly it makes more sense that proposal than to create a care unit in southern Galicia, where the number of cases is very limited. And, therefore, I believe that we do not share that view. With regard to silica powder, environmental values were limited in 2007. The Galician Union is acting in this regard with responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u93	What we're talking about is working on the side of the slate sector, and what we did was we put in a specific aid line with 3 million euros to walk in this situation. We were also told on his initiative about the situation map of asbestos. I have to tell you that, in this sense, it's not a simple matter, it's not a simple matter, because the buildings some are from the Board of Galicia, others are not. I think, in this sense, it would be very complicated to establish this map. What we are talking about is, where asbestos is removed, that preceptive regulations are complied with.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u94	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u95	And I'm done now, President. With regard to radon gas, of what I was talking about, I have to tell you that there is an initiative adopted unanimously in the 2nd Commission of this Parliament on 5 April this year, and we therefore refer to that statement, to that initiative adopted unanimously by all groups. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u96	Thank you. Author group of the motion, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u97	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to thank the support of the opposition groups. It is a matter of course not solely relevant to our group, but we are the ones who bring the initiative and will understand that we have to talk about our opinion. I appreciate Mr. Tellado's tone. It's very difficult to argue with him at times, because he usually doesn't talk about initiatives. It's not like that today. But I wanted to move you that you can't twist some of the data we offer here. I didn't say Galicia had any more professional diseases. We transferred the data for the last year, which increased by 8.6% occupational diseases and occupational accidents by 9.17%. It's true that it's the mild ones that get the most up on the year's anniversary. The data varies, Mr. Tellado, but you cannot of course frizz with that data or transfer something that we haven't talked about here. There's a theme -- I'm not going to occupy, however, a long time with it -- that's relevant, and it's a fact that I've offered at first. One out of every five industrial jobs were destroyed in our country. Clearly, that has to do with the number of accidents at work, Mr Tellado. That's obvious, as it's also obvious that it has to do with the precariousness of work. And there's a lot of reports that indicate it and we've talked about it on many occasions. And in that margin, it's worse when you invest less in health protection and work risk prevention, 40% less in Issga. I didn't mention that Issga is active because we bring initiatives, I said that the Galician Union takes action because sometimes the public pressure makes it no longer have a remedy than to make a decision, although sometimes it's just a smoke curtain, but 40% less for the accumulated Isssga since 2009. It's true -- I said in the interpellation -- you've increased a few thousand euros in this last budget, but it's a huge amount if you've seen the cut since 2009. And this, of course, does not facilitate the work of these professionals in the prevention of health and in the prevention of occupational risks. As regards the points we have moved, I have just said here — I said in the previous speech — we speak to the affected and the affected, and if you read specifically the initiative, we propose not only a unit for the attention of asbestos, but the rest of the pneumoconies are treated. Usually the majority are the derivatives of exposure to crystalline silica powder and asbestos; there could be others of a professional nature. And they are basically rooted in the northern and southern parts of Galicia, related to industrial employment, one with the extraction of slate, the extraction of granite, the other with the exposure by the naval industry and by other industries that they have used and which now still exist asbestos. Those are the specific points. And it seems very relevant to us that you also support the initiative today, not because we betrayed it, but because we are concerned about the reality that these workers have. We have no more time, I have no more time in this initiative, but the point of radon is not being met, and it is very serious, because it is not only a central government breach, it is that the Galician Union is not complying with the regulations either. And if the Galician Parliament can make measurements within its units, I understand that also in the public units of the Galician Union they can take action. We'll bring this matter back here specifically for each of the points. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. We moved on to the next motion. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the urban impact of the general road regulation of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u99	This motion has been tabled with an amendment by the Group of the Blocs and another amendment by the Group of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u100	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u101	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Today, to my great regret, I must begin by clarifying a matter which I consider important to nuance after the counsellor's intervention in the inquiry of the full past. Urban development is not synonymous with speculation or has to be reborn with road safety. And I say this because demanding and defending the urban conditions that allow planning doesn't mean speculating or going against anything. [[Applause]] Precisely what is claimed here is that the regulations follow each other and not that they ride on top of each other. They are many today the professionals of urbanism who watch precisely the most efficient, more sustainable, more viable, safer cities and towns, and who in no way identify themselves with these innuendos. And the greater or lesser cost of housing does not have to be decided either by the councillor or by this honourable Member, I have to decide on the appropriate municipal planning which is supposed to be legitimized by the self-government itself. And, of course, I shouldn't have decided on a vehicle either. This is probably one of the fundamental problems of this matter: that vehicles have taken over the territory and condition our cities and villages to the extreme. Today it's more of the cars than the pawns themselves. Maybe the problem on these tracks is better to manage the speeds that you access in the kernels, by setting an example. I understand that the other day Mrs Vázquez insinuates this assimilation of urbanism and speculation, because the policies of the People's Party for thirty years in Galicia caused this perception in citizenship. Urban tools have been used, unfortunately, too often to speculate and not to order, to transform, preserve or control the territory within the parameters of the sustainability and coexistence of productive and landscaped values. [[Applause]] The lesson — I think — is or should have been learned, but that's not why it has to happen literally at the end of the not by the not. She also commented that the speech this honourable Member used was too technical. And, of course, more technical it seems to me to talk about macroeconomic policy in some of the debates in this House and I don't see the Economics Councillor measuring his opinions or answers to the honourable Members' comments on this matter. Because what we are dealing with on this initiative is two basic issues which the Councillor understands, which understand the honourable Members and understand all the Greek and Germans concerned: on the one hand, to preserve the city council's ability to order the growth of its territory and, on the other hand, to strictly administer its own Road Law. As for the first one, to preserve the autonomy of the municipalities and the role of municipal management plans, one must remember that they are approved by the Galician Union itself, and with them all its specific regulations, including characteristics of the minimum construction plots, the minimum fronts, the recesses, the transfers, the maximum heights and a definition of things. Not to understand this is not to understand that it is the municipalities themselves who know their needs, their territory, how to relate to their citizens, and that according to a higher law as is the Law of the Land they design and implement their municipal planning. On the other hand, I said, to strictly provide the Road Law itself, which in addition to Article 58 refers to the fact that the network-holder administration may limit and order access to roads, but applying criteria for traffic intensity, road safety and the operation and operation of the road. We understand the priority in the use of existing accesses, whenever feasible, and we repeat what we have already said the other day: we are the first ones we bet on for road safety, but we are not willing to use it as a parapet or as an excuse to support other types of measures that are clearly not justified, such as preventing the segregation of parcels that cannot secure access by other means. If Article 58 refers to criteria for determining the control — or not — of the access to parcels facing the provincial or autonomic road network, how is it explained that Article 137 is precisely the title of the road to which it meets the criteria of another type? Does it mean, then, that the title of a road implies the same conditions of traffic intensity, functionality or security? Do the roads of the same title always count with the same borders, with the same speed limitations, with high pedestrian steps, with the same vertical signaling, the same width, the same firmness, the same vehicle passing intensity? Obviously not. And I think we all have to agree on that. All we have to do is analyze the different vehicle passes indexes of several routes affected by this Article 137 to corroborate exactly what I am talking about. For example, EP-7102 in Sardinia-Cotobade on its stretch between Serrapio and Portela; there are 16 vehicles per day, one and a half hours. Another example: the stretch between Brués and Portela da Cruz, in Carballino; 29 vehicles pass through it, 1 vehicle every 70 minutes. Both cases, which may seem extreme, are not unique in Galicia. Only in Ourense province, for example, are about 110 tracks below an average vehicle passing index of 4 an hour. Road data and intensities that are very far, of course, from the 11,800 vehicles per day of the PO-551 between Moaña and Cangas or almost 12,000 of the PO-316 in the Grove, for two examples. And so we're talking about very different roads that can at all be considered similar either because of the characteristics or the problematics that affect them and therefore not in matters like road safety. We don't understand, therefore, how these average daily vehicle passing intensities, which are known for all provincial and autonomous roads and which are those that DXT itself primarily employs for road planning, have not been taken into account in a decision as is the delimitation of access to plots and therefore the segregation of parcels. We therefore demand rigour in the decisions of a road regulation which directly affects the urban rights and duties of the neighbouring region of Greece and we believe that it has to regulate in accordance with the actual and proven criteria. And it's not a minor matter. It affects all the Welsh and Galicians with plots that, not in rustic soil, face autonomous and provincial roads. And yes, this group is concerned, and concerned about their interests, about the small and small owners, about those who in inheritance receive a plot in rural core soil, for example, and count on a future with the ability to use it to settle down and build a housing. That's not speculation, because we're talking about a right they've acquired in the vigil city plans. How do you explain, if not, to a neighbor, a neighbour of one of these rural nuclei who spend less than 100 vehicles a day than their land, 3,000 square meters, can't be segregated by a criterion of safety or road intensity? From the Socialist Group we find it difficult to explain and, even more, a clear abuse in the articulation of this road law, which has chosen to make Galicia a shallow table, little like the reality of the Greek territory. In any case, the advisor herself pointed out in the full past that the segregation of the plots was feasible, and assured him, but did not clearly point out how. And in this case, we point to a possible solution in this motion, a solution which goes first by nullifying the current text of the regulation contained in Article 137 of the General Rules of Roads, and, secondly, by encouraging the amendment of the regulation so that, if it favours the issuance of reports by the Council or interested parties by the Council of Galicia which assess the origin of the parcels or segregations of related parcels with autonomous and provincial roads, even if the access to all new plots generated cannot be resolved through State or municipal routes, maintaining Article 52 of the Galicia Road Law and based on real road safety criteria, traffic intensity, functionality and operation of the road in each case. We therefore ask to facilitate a balanced and justified response in each case, to avoid damage to the interests of many owners and owners, who we believe can be free or unnecessary. Waiting for the support of all groups to the motion here exposed and announcing our willingness to compromise on the amendment tabled by the People's Group, on which I will stand in the replica shift, nothing more for now and many thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u103	Thank you. We propose on this initiative the annulment of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, which are now put to death by this possible transaction, with the proposal of the People's Party. We think it's a very specific and technical matter. We don't mean that it's irrelevant. It seems to us, moreover, that it is therefore likely to be more flexible in drafting that allows a detailed analysis of the different situations that arise, of the problems surrounding this issue, and that a solution is sought, taking into account, in addition, cases that may have occurred in recent times. In addition, we think that the solution is in some way implicit in drafting the text of the law, in its article 52 — although the spokesman of the Socialist Party referred to 58, referred to 52 — which literally says: "The network-holder administration may limit and order access to roads and establish mandatory places and conditions in which such access can be built, taking into account the applicable regulations and applying the criterion of traffic intensity, road safety and road functionality and operation." In fact, it seems to us that the interpretation of the draft regulation is extremely rigid, which establishes a uniformization for the entire geographic and urban reality of the country and that there is, of course, to analyze each case based on variables and criteria, as set out in Article 52 itself, the type of route, the intensity of traffic, the route or the problem of road safety, which must also be a fundamental principle in the actions in this area. Beyond this debate, BNG also brings here, through its amendment, a more comprehensive approach to the need to develop the Road Law through instruments that are provided for in the law — which I would like to remind you that it is from 2013, therefore, that they have been there almost five years since approval and that they have not yet developed — and that they would allow to solve many problems that are around the roads, also urbanistics, and, of course, those related to road safety. I'm talking about issues that have to do with planning and managing the network. First of all, what we propose with our amendment is the drafting and adoption of a road master plan, which is provided for in Article 12 of the Act, which is a multi-annual planning instrument for road actions by the various administrations concerned the entire territorial area of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, as the law states. This would enable us to overcome, for example, something that is not a road plan such as the MOVE Plan, which has been drawn up and approved by the People's Party, which is a plan which is obsolete, outdated and incomplete in some of its actions, and to elaborate in a participatory manner, in a shared and coordinated manner between the different administrations, which must be approved by the Council of the Union and then also transferred to Parliament for debate. And together with this plan director, we also propose a sectoral road project, which is also envisaged in the law and which should be developed and approved later in the master plan, but could work on its preparation already for a question that seems absolutely central and vital to us, which is the improvement of road safety and accessibility and also of pedestrian and cyclist mobility, which is, of course, one of the major priorities in the road traffic in Galicia, taking into account the problem of road sinequality and road safety, and it is, in addition, a matter that cannot be postponed — and I remember that we have been five years with the law passed — and it cannot, either, put on partial and inconsequential action, as it is now, on many roads of the road network. These issues should therefore be addressed. They may not accept our amendment. In any case, we will bring this debate here again, because we find it essential to address this issue and also to draw up the regulations that are laid down in the law itself. I think we need to change this improvisation policy and sometimes also unilateral actions of "order and command" by a policy that is really involved and consensual through themes that are absolutely vital and central in planning, management and management of the road network and, above all, how people living around that road network are related to these structures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u104	Thank you, Mr Bará. We now greet the 5th and 6th primary students from the Laxe Center, from Balon, from Doninos, Ferrol, as well as their teachers and teachers. Welcome to Parliament. You have the floor now, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning and a greeting to Ferrol's boys and girls. I believe that, first of all, it is necessary to underline that, for the first time, with the next approval of this order of access, Galicia will have its own and complete regulatory framework for road infrastructures, which allows me to think that it will manage them more closely with the particular features of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, more in line with Galicia's own characteristics, especially in relation to the rural nuclei and the great density of roads and crossings with which we count and — as we do not! — the dispersion and location of our dwellings in relation to these roads. Both Law 8/2013, as it has been said, and the general road regulations of Galicia, in addition to offering solutions to these particularities of Galicia, we believe that it also reinforces legal guarantees for citizenship, giving you that rigor of what they asked for, because it sets those objective and regulated criteria. The draft decree passed by the Regulation was submitted to the public information, as is known. First, through the Council website, so that any citizen, association or organization could make claims or proposals. The project was also referred to various administrations and agencies: apart from the National Straits demarcation, provincial deputies and the Fegamp and trade union organizations and other bodies of the Galician Union, as it was submitted to the terms of the Galician Consultative Council. As a result, a significant number of allegations and improvements were incorporated, also introduced by the Galician Juridical Council, and all the legal observations issued by the Advisory Council, in particular 71 of the 74 comments on improvements proposed by this body, were considered. With regard to Article 137 — and for this reason I was referring to the advisor who is technical and concrete, as other speakers were saying, because we are talking about a specific, technical article of the regulation — it should be noted that there was no claim concerning this or any of the reports of the different administrations or bodies, nor did he stress that there was a need to make any change on this article. In any case, we've already been controlling this parcel by reports from the General Infrastructure Directorate in the processing of general planning, because we have to follow and strengthen the idea and make clear that the basic objective of this article is to ensure the road safety of our roads. And we're not countering this -- that is, urban development is positive, we have to do it reasonably, but it can't undervalue or undermine road safety. And I think that idea has to be clear on any of the possible agreements we've reached. And we have to be able to combine this balance between accessibility and road mobility, which are autonomous competition. Security as well as autonomous roads are the responsibility not of planning but of the Autonomous Community, of management, in this case of the Infrastructure and Living Council. So no urban competition is changed, no competition is touched within planning, like any other sectoral regulations; that is, when you have approved something to give you license, in addition to compliance with that planning, you have to comply with sectoral regulations, and that's what you value in a licensing report. So because of having to comply with road rules, no planning or urban competition is changing. In any case, as I said, greater legal security, ensuring the road safety of our roads, these are the normative targets in Galicia in road matters, which will be completed with a future order by which the access of Galician roads on their service routes are regulated; a rule that, as you well know, is already being processed at this time in Galician Union, which will affect the plot and which seeks to facilitate access by a regulation that is much more adapted to the reality that exists in Galicia than the current state rule. So we're also looking for that adaptation to the reality of our territory, especially rural, in Galicia. In the intervention of the Infrastructure and Living Adviser the other day during the inquiry he has already pointed out that in June the Galaga Infrastructure Agency will convene a technical meeting with municipalities and deputies to address the application of road regulations on urban truces and thus try to clarify and respond to all these doubts and see if any adjustments are necessary according to some of the variables referred to in Article 52 of the law we are talking about. So we can only thank you for your predisposition to the transaction. In order to make a constructive contribution, this amendment was made. We are, of course, also open to agreement and transaction, and that is why we present this amendment. Waiting for a deal, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u106	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u107	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, guests and guests. From the Parliamentary Group of En Marea we will support the motion tabled by Mrs Pierres of the PSdEG, because, without leaving at any time the security, which seems fundamental to us, on the road maps, and that Article 137 of Decree 66/2016, although it is not entirely contradictory, our view, with Law 8/2013, of roads in Galicia, does indeed expose a number of aspects that deserve reflection on the previous regulation. On the one hand, it is situated above municipal plans in aspects that are already defined, considering, therefore, the invalidity of the previous decisions, often taken on a scale more appropriate to the citizen field. To grant such competition to road networks is an invasion of the municipal sphere of competence, because we start with the fact that the development of the plan not only includes factors such as traffic or security, but also environmental, landscape, economic, social, population, etc. It exposes a dangerous uniformity with respect to the particular urbanity and diversity of rural nuclei, imposing inflexible models that forget the intensity of traffic, the functionality and exploitation of the road that were taken into account in the law and disappear in the regulation, as well as the imposition of an urban model. The solution of service routes doesn't seem to us the best solution for rural people, and it's a measure that penalises the citizen or the citizen who wants to perform a timely plot or segregation, but of course it won't be an impediment to segregation or to large scale parcel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u108	Thank you. For the motion's own group, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u109	Yes, thank you, President. I'm going to position myself directly on the amendments tabled. First of all, I would like to thank, of course, the support of the En Marea Group and that of the BNG for the motion presented and also for the willingness of the People's Party to come to an agreement. On the amendment of the BNG I would like to comment on what we have already expressed on other occasions with amendments tabled to other proposals or motions defended here. The amendment to addendum tabled does not fall to the motion tabled today for opening up another question which is not the reason for today's debate. So, we're going to set up the one that's being dealt with and present on another occasion. And with regard to the amendment tabled by the People's Party, we believe that the substance of the matter is actually collected, which is to review the origin of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, its review and analysis of the consequences of its application. We understand positively that if Members and Councils are to be involved, they will also be able to reach their views. And it is also true that the technicians who participate in both institutions understand that they should be multidisciplinary. I'm told: this article has clear urban implications, so technicians should not only be road technicians, road engineers, but should also participate urban technicians, i.e. architects of their own parliaments and especially municipalities. I'm pointing this out because I think it's important. And we believe that all of this would also have to be addressed before the end of 2018, which would imply the approval of the access order also with the utmost speed for, indeed, to be able to corroborate and jointly evaluate the involvement of this article and base it on true criteria of road safety, traffic intensity, functionality and road operation. We therefore accept and promote this transaction, which we hope will reach the support of all groups, since we believe that we respect the spirit of this motion and the acceptance to study those dysfunctions and disagreements that have been manifested in the application of this article of the Rules of the Road Law. For my part, nothing else, and thank you very much also for the provision shown.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. We'll leave some time for the transaction. [[Pause.]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u111	We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. Close the doors, please. We voted on the motion by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Ms Noa Presas, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union in order to avoid the consequences on the Greek financial market of the possible disappearance of the Banco Pastor as its own entity. There are no amendments. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the actions to be carried out by the Council of Galicia in order to avoid the consequences on the Greek financial market of the possible disappearance of the Banco Pastor as its own entity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u112	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Ms Eva Solla, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with professional diseases. There are no amendments. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. Mr. de In Marea, at the initiative of Mrs. Solla Fernández, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with professional diseases. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u113	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Maria Luisa Pierres, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the urban impact of the general road regulations in Galicia. There's a transaction. Can you read it, please?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u114	Yes. "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to address before the end of 2018, with representation of deputies and municipalities, the criteria for applying Article 137 of the Galician General Road Regulation and to study with technicians of the autonomous, provincial and municipal administrations the consequences of the application of the regulation contained in Article 137 of the Galician General Road Regulation and, once approved the new order of access and completed the road regulatory framework, assess as a whole, together with councils and deputies, this regulatory framework and in particular the application of Article 137 of the Regulation based on road safety criteria, traffic intensity and functionality and road operation."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. We therefore vote for this transaction. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the urban impact of the general regulation of roads of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. The compromise text of this motion is therefore adopted. Thank you. We suspended the session until 3:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u116	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session with the third item on the agenda, which is non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and seven other Members, on the impetus for the Galician Summit for measures and actions of recognition for the companies that collaborate and participate in the development of the FP
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u117	This motion for a non-law has been tabled amendments by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u118	To formulate the proposal, Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u119	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies. The German education system, particularly in the field of vocational training, has made an important effort in recent years to adapt to the needs of students, society and, if not, the productive sectors. In fact, one of the priority challenges of education administration is to adapt professional profiles to the needs that demand productive tissue. We live in a constantly changing society, and that requires us to be prepared to face this socio-economic, changing and dynamic reality. Vocational training is now one of the best tools to move forward with changes and adapt to them as it allows young people to develop a work activity by providing the necessary professional skills and, in addition, facilitating adaptation to technological and organisational changes that characterize the labour market. In this context, the involvement of the educational communities, but also of the companies, who collaborate, as they do not, in the training of the student. Current vocational training offers a solid, general basis and a specialisation according to the labour market and the practical knowledge of new technologies. It is known by everyone that the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order is making a strong commitment to strengthening the entrepreneurial culture in teaching, promoting the innovation and creativity of the student and also favoring the student's direct contact with the productive fabric and the environment around him. A bet that was translated, in an era of economic crisis and rationalization of public spending, into an important investment effort in vocational training centres for the equipping of means and materials to adapt the teaching of vocational training to the demands of 21st century society. One of the keys to vocational training studies is precisely the connection between the educational world and the productive world, which is to ensure that training at the educational centre is combined with training at companies. Vocational training must maintain very close links with the company by supporting, collaborating and promoting the entrepreneurship and development of projects that enable companies to move towards new strategic sectors and which also improve their production systems and allow them to incorporate new innovative techniques. Today, and after the work that has been done in recent years, Welsh vocational training is quality, dynamism, innovation, employability and a possibility to continue training throughout life, for vocational retraining. This has been achieved through measures such as the adaptation of more than a hundred cycles to the development of Galician social and economic fabric and its needs; the consolidation of a network of 26 business farmers in educational centres offering the opportunity to create their own businesses for young people; the investment effort in works for the installation of new workshops and new equipment; the implementation of foreign languages — in particular English — in vocational training in progressive ways; or, among other things, the expansion of FCTs, or training in work centres. In order to continue to foster a closer relationship between the educational centre and the company, the German Government has been committed to dual vocational training, involving more than a hundred companies. It is because it is a mode of training that alters learning at the educational centre and at the company, because it also promotes the inclusion of young people and because it responds to the needs of the productive sectors. Designing vocational training as an opportunity for connection between the educational world and the productive world makes it easier for the student of Galician vocational training to enter a job when he finishes his studies. One of the keys to the employability of headlines in the Welsh FP is the implementation of cycles adapted to the National Catalogue of Professional Qualifications and the offer of cycles itself, once adjusting depending on real demand and others opening and innovating with new teachings. In this sense, year by year, the Council is able to make an offer of attractive cycles that enables new students to incorporate, to the point that this course is about 1,000 students and more in the Galician vocational training, already exceeding the number of 51,000 students in vocational training in Galicia. And in this sense, the People's Parliamentary Group believes that we must continue to work to strengthen vocational training in Galicia with the objective that it is increasingly useful for people and for the Greek society. In view of the needs to modernise and technify these teachings, the Government of Greece has brought about a strategy of vocational training based on measures such as the design of an offer adapted to the environment and the approach and support to the company, innovation, internationalisation and entrepreneurship, as well as the empowerment of the network of integrated vocational training centres and the generalisation of dual vocational training, vocational guidance and quality promotion. As a result of the application of this strategy in vocational training, the level of work integration of the student who runs vocational training cycles already exceeds 80%. That is, more than 8 out of 10 of the students in vocational training received a job at the end of their studies. These figures show that vocational training is a bet on the future and that the lessons are increasingly tailored to the needs of Galician productive tissues, which makes it easier for most students to find employment within the period between the end of training in work centres and the six months after. In this context, the different branches of vocational training are gaining ground and setting themselves up as related lessons of quality and prestige among students, which leads to more and more students with better academic records. In this new framework where the reality of vocational training is found in Galicia, it is necessary to continue to advance the empowerment of vocational training as the engine that drives the strengthening of the links between education and the company in order to foster entrepreneurship, knowledge and innovation, since entrepreneurship is a source of wealth around it by acting as the engine of innovation, competitiveness and growth of economies. Finally, it is necessary to work decisively to further strengthen links between the education system and the business sector. And in this respect comes the initiative that we are presenting today to the consideration of this Parliamentary Chamber, which aims precisely to recognize the importance of the involvement of entrepreneurship in the field of vocational training. With this non-law proposal, we intend to urge the Government of Greece to promote action and recognition measures for those companies that cooperate and participate in the development of vocational training, because we understand that the consolidation of the success of vocational training in Galicia goes largely, without any kind of doubt, for an ever-increasing involvement of companies in the training offer in our country. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we find ourselves at a time when vocational training is putting on data and a very positive reality for our society. As I said before, employability levels are currently found at the top of history. And, of course, a fundamental role within these good results that is giving us vocational training is precisely made possible by the active participation of companies within the education system. And in that sense, we intend with this proposal not of law to narrow those ties, increase participation and, ultimately, acknowledge the participation of these companies that have collaborated with vocational training in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u120	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u121	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I must admit, Mr. Fernández Gil, that I am not quite clear yet, after hearing the oral part, what they ask, or what they propose. I don't know if you want the board to organize -- I don't know -- a prize delivery, a medal delivery, a leaflet, a rescue -- I just don't understand exactly what it's asked for -- what the German Parliament would urge the board to do -- beyond -- as they do in the resolution -- to recognize to companies the work and the interest shown by one of the steps of vocational training in our country. And how, in addition to not understanding what they are asking for, and given the reality that public education lives in our country as a whole, and specifically vocational training, in which there is something we are going to agree on -- we also find it strategic, though from a very different perspective, in some respects, as I will now explain -- we believe that we must take care of something more than the one that the Union applauds with its ears to the companies that are part of that vocational training, both in practice at work centres and in the case of dual vocational training. And that's why what we're dealing with is three issues in the resolution, which we propose to be replaced — the first — so that the design of vocational training in our country is comprehensive, strategic, and that it first deals with the social and economic reality of our country where it has to do with the economic sectors that we have here in Galicia, and also with the reality of our own business fabric. And then I'll explain this question more slowly as well. We live in a country where most companies are small businesses or microenterprises. On many occasions they are even autonomous people who have one or two people working in the workplace; or even there are companies, in most cases, where there is only one worker. Within this reality, everything that has to do with the practices within the workplace, or even with the mimetic adoption that they have made of the vocational training they have developed in Germany, in this dual vocational training strategy, is not guaranteed even that there are within the work centres themselves training units. Many times people who pass through these work centres are trained unaccompanied, partial, non-integrated, and who correspond to all the knowledge that should be acquired to later develop a training. I'm going to put an example, it's a real case that happened in the province of Pontevedra with staff who was being trained to be techniques that work with dependent people who were in a center of the day. And all they saw was the attention of dependents in a daytime center. Access to comprehensive training is not guaranteed to see that you can care for a dependent person in a day center, in a residence or even within the home itself. What we believe is that we have to develop and implement vocational training strategies and design an integral planning of this training in response to that reality and not adopt mimetically other models that have developed in another country. In addition, we believe that something needs to be done, if the Government is to be urged for something, it is to guarantee human, material and, above all, economic resources to ensure vocational education or any other area, but above all quality. And the most important thing — and it is the third leg of our proposal, in which we want to do special fincapé — is to prevent these dual vocational training strategies from being used to provide cheap labour — or in many cases even free — to businesses themselves. The Spanish ministry has for some time designed a new royal decree that will come to regulate this dual vocational training. In October 2017, we knew that in that dual FP alliance — which is nothing other than the employer, the CEO, but with another name — they were already proposing to the Ministry where I had to go in pursuit of these reforms. Among other issues — in order to go more or less agile — they intended to extend training and learning contracts beyond the age of 30, which were not of any age, to establish a one-month test period, which, if the contract was terminated before the completion of the training cycle — that is, before the person was graduated — did not have to provide any compensation, and more public bonuses are claimed to contract and even be able to do so on turns. We believe that in no case can we use these training modalities — very much in this matter — to be able to provide companies with cheap labour, labour, in many cases — I insist — free. In addition to applauding the ears, really, or pretending to get corporate recognition nuisances, what we should be talking about is how to address strategic and integral planning that is truly embedded in our country's social and economic reality. And most importantly, vocational training cannot be used — and, above all, that of what you were talking about, dual vocational training, as a mechanism for introducing cheap labour into work centres. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mr. Fernández Gil, I listened very carefully to your intervention, and I suppose with the same interest as Mrs. Rodil's, to see if they were deduced from what you wanted with this initiative. You've made a defence, lit for moments, of vocational training, which our group fully agrees with. We know it's a strategic educational modality for the country's development. We know that the social revaluation of vocational training came from an education reform in 1990 from LOGSE, and we know that vocational training is no longer what it was before LOGSE, fortunately. It's a training with a high social value, a high work value. In that I must disagree with what Mrs Rodil said, because she has the recognition of both society and the productive sector. In any case, and without the courage to miss out on that -- you know it's not my style -- I'm going to call this initiative a rocket initiative; that is, a lot of light, a lot of splendor and, when that splendour happens, nothing. I don't know if it's going to be a leafy, I don't know if it's going to be a delivery of commemorative diplomas in the City of Culture, I don't know what it will be, because I don't know what you're proposing. [[Applause]] Look, the reality of all this is explained in a very simple way. On May 16, this year, on the eve of the Council of Spokespersons, the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport made a press release in which it presented social agents with the basis for improving dual vocational training. Within the actions for this improvement there is the need for economic counter-reimbursement for students in a more adapted contractual model, the reinforcement of the work of the educational tutor and the tutor of the company and, oh surprise, the recognition of the company's work. I mean, just like you, in an initiative, by the way, registered ten months ago, in July last year. You see, they haven't had time to bring it to this Parliament so that we can recognize all the value of companies. But now, two days later, you bring it to this Parliament. Well, I think this proposal is not a law, like some other proposal that I think we're going to debate in this plenary session, is already coming — and I'm talking about what the People's Party is presenting — with approval; that is, about something that has already been decided. I mean, you have no capacity, except that -- and I don't want to think about it -- within the Government of Galicia, within the Education Council, there are people who disagree with the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport. And I say this because, as far as I know, at the National Vocational Training Commission or either attend the advisor or attend the Director General of Vocational Training. So I want to understand that, since the Ministry says there was a unanimous approval, that unanimous approval came with the applause of these officials of the German Government. Look, the reality is that these two sheets are the map of the dual vocational training of the 2017-2018 course. They are 18 training cycles throughout the autonomous community. Yeah, yeah, don't get it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm from the Education Council website. So I guess you won't doubt the truth. Of the truth we might doubt, but, in your case, you will not doubt the solvency of this information. There are 55 companies from all over Galicia that are listed in this offer for the 2017-2018 course, 55 companies. And the problem is that some of these offers, such as a cycle of average degree of natural environment utilization and conservation, have only 12 ALS; another, of Soldier and Caldeiría, has 10; another, of Industrial Mecatronics, has 11; another, of Machinery Electromechanics, has 8. Therefore, and regardless of the business reality of our autonomous community, which we all know, and the necessary involvement — of course — of companies in dual vocational training, companies need something more than recognition, they need something more than handkerchiefs, they need something more than to say "what good you are to help us!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh What they need — especially many of them who do not have a training department because they do not have the entity and the size enough to have it — is economic support to collaborate with the education sector and to collaborate in dual vocational training. That is why our proposal for amendment, the amendment, says that economic support measures are being implemented to increase the number of companies involved in vocational training, particularly in their dual mode. I mean, to see if, in addition to rockets, we have at least empanada and meat in the barn to fully celebrate the romary. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u124	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u125	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. The surprise of our group is similar to that expressed by the other opposition groups. When we read it, we said, but is this a teaching initiative? It seems, especially because it is signed, firstly, by Mr. Fernández Gil. And, of course, the words "dual vocational training" are going around. But the "enterprise" and "enterprises" are often more and more; dual training and companies, that couple they like so much. So much so that what we have in our hands is not by far a proposal to improve vocational training. No, what this initiative is about is to recognize companies that participate in vocational training, recognition of companies. So ambitious is the education policy of the People's Party. They want to do something about vocational training and they don't have anything else to say, "We're going to recognize the companies that collaborate with this." Because from the Council, as far as we can see, there's nothing to do. It's, at least, worrying. As a matter of concern, it turns out that in the explanatory statement itself, type statements — and I read textually — are made: "A model of training that brings grand results". So, without more, magnificent results. I wish I did! Which one? Where are they? Where can they be consulted? It is true that we have already asked, that we have already recorded questions on this matter in Parliament, and today we have not been able to find any answers. The truth is, there are no official data to make sure of this. If you have them, it would be great if you shared them. In addition to the degree of employment integration — which was the only one that made reference — it would be interesting to give us data on the type of contracts that people are signing out of dual vocational training. It will not be that — as we have hoped — the only thing being done is to increase the precariousness of work. They could also give us data on not exceeding academic courses, even the substitution of traditional vocational training by dual or competition established between students as potential workers of one type and another type of training. Of course, on the Council's website, I'm telling you there's not one data or one official report. So to have accurate data on the subject, we need to go to secondary studies by specialists on the subject. And of course, as usual the information of people who know have little to do with the triumphalism of the People's Party. Thus, we could quote the words of Fernando Marhuenda, coordinator of a report of the most relevant facts made in the Spanish State on the involvement of dual FP, when he says — and I quote textually — "Education administration, both central and autonomous, have carried out an impasse, poorly planned and lack of follow-up and control. Everything that has helped to generate an ingrained field within the system. Concern in the centers, determined dedication, but lack of guidance from the teacher and inequality between the student." Not just that. Before entering to assess dual vocational training so positively, we should — we say — take note of the numerous complaints about the misuse of this training system because of which much of the hourly load takes place in work centres, transforming what should be a training process into a precarious job. And from there the fall of wages, the replacement of stable jobs per student of dual vocational training, the precariousness and impoverishment of working conditions, etc. Of course, they seem quite complex as if not to devote a single reflection to them when we approach a study of a necessary improvement in dual vocational training. And, of course, the rule forbids it, but reality — as it happens — is imposed. It's happening. Nor should it be obvious that the existence of companies very interested in dual vocational training does not have to do with philanthropic issues — say, philanthropic issues, as seemed to be deduced from their proposal, but with a way to reduce labour costs, which is legitimate, of course, would be more lacking! No one escapes from a company having to have business interests. The question would be whether this is a reason for recognition by the Education Council. And there, of course, we disagree. We could also question the outsourcing of business costs from public administrations, which assumes that they are those companies in which practices are carried out which in many cases affect and condition the content of curricular training. But, of course, how will the People's Party question dual vocational training when it is precisely designed to meet its objective: the search for a clearly oriented educational system that responds to the needs of the labour market? "The search for a clearly oriented educational system that responds to the needs of the labour market," you say, you yourself, I'm reading textually, we don't say so. These are his words, which explain, black on white, the objective of absolute mercentilization of the education system that we've been reporting in this House for many months. It is a clear proof of the understanding of teaching in the service of companies. Who knows where the need for an education system remains to form citizenship? From En Marea we consider it unacceptable for education policy in this country to be devoted to business interests. That should never be the goal. For all this, we will vote 'no' to this non-law proposal and expect a serious, deep and prolonged debate on the improvement that vocational training needs in this country. The issues we have already tried to debate here on one occasion, such as the need to adapt the offer to the socio-economic reality of each place — which you, of course, voted otherwise — would certainly be a bet on improving the quality of vocational training. And there, of course, they can always find us. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u127	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Well, I think the postures are perfectly clear. First of all, I don't know if they didn't listen to me — probably yes, because they weren't paying much attention — but they can't talk about disconnection from the system of vocational training into socio-economic tissue when I'm clearly explaining that one of the fundamental lines to which the system of vocational training is oriented today in Galicia is precisely the connection to socio-economic tissue. That's one of the fundamental lines. But one thing is very clear to us, Mrs Chao, and you just said it without any kind of cutback: for you it's a statement, let's say, wrong -- or I don't know how to define it in your neo-language -- that an educational system has to be geared towards responding to the needs of the labour market. Hey, we understand that vocational training is. If you think you don't, just like you prefer to create cycles to answer parallel realities, Marxist dreams, or I don't know what. We want to develop cycles that meet the needs of the labour market. [[Murmurs.]] Why? Because we pursue that people who are studying and forming have a professional way out, can carry out a decent life plan and can live in society and develop their vital project. But, well, I mean, maybe you're more of a line. [[Applause]] Perfect, there you are! There's no problem. It is clear that this was an initiative to recognise the involvement of companies in the field of vocational training because they seem to us to be a key piece of development or to achieve these results that are being achieved at the level of employability and so on. But for you, both for BNG and for En Marea — particularly because it was the ones who referred to this issue — it seems that, rather than recognizing companies' participation, what you have to do is almost doubt the ethical commitment of companies involved in dual vocational training. Because here it seems that companies that participate in vocational training only do so with the interest of stealing the rights of these workers who come to work for our companies. So if you start from that perspective that the only interest of companies, when they take part in dual vocational training, is to provide themselves with cheap labour, as you said, obviously there is nothing to recognize for you. That's very clear. So these are different positions, perfectly legitimate. You continue to defend that, we will continue to defend the collaboration of companies. And, Mr. Álvarez, it seemed to me very fond of the empanada and the meat to the barn, especially for the hours, though now, after eating, it no longer tastes so much; but this a few hours earlier might have been desirable. See, of course, what we want is a recognition, a recognition for what? To prestigious. You said that, to prestigious professional training. We understand that this is the line that must be followed, that companies must continue to participate in vocational training. And that's why it's good to acknowledge that work, it's good to acknowledge that participation, and it's good that the economic fabric of each region, of every locality, is involved in the vocational training project, so that students who decide to take these lessons have a higher entry into the labour market in each of the areas. There are, of course, many formulas. And each formula is related to the concrete context, to the economic capacity of each particular moment. Of course, what we are transmitting to you and what we ask of the Council is that this participation should be taken into account, which is recognised, and, of course, as far as possible, that recognition should be implemented, the recognition measures, for this work and for this collaboration. In that sense, we understand that we will count on your collaboration, but you can understand that we will not accept an amendment that is saying what is the measure of recognition that we have to take when we want to urge the Government to determine what these recognition measures must be taken for these companies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u129	And, for our part, of course, we announce that the amendment of the Nationalist Block in Wales is not going to accept either. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u130	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and three other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the central government for the consideration of "proximity" for the Atlantic railway line of Galicia, as well as the opening, in parallel, of a dialogue process to increase the frequency of railway services offered and lower the price of train tickets
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u131	There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u132	Mr. Torrado has the floor to formulate the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u133	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. To start this approach, I wanted to do a comparison exercise that I think is useful to raise the question that we bring to this House today. The Santiago-Pontevedra train trip is thirty-four minutes, as you can see on Renfe's website; there are 17 frequencies and a price of 7.35 euros. One can look for similar trips in time on the map: Gijón-Oviedo, half price —3,40— and twice and half more frequencies —41—; Malaga-Benalmadena, three times more frequencies —52 to 17—, half price —3,60—; Valencia-Sagunto—I'm not going to talk about Camps, in case someone wants to escape quickly from Valencia today—, twice and half as much as half as —3,70—. We're paying twice as much for having three times less frequencies. The Vigo-Coruña, hour and twenty, approximately 18.10 euros. If one, for example, in the surroundings of Madrid, wants to travel from Alcalá University to Aravaca — which there is a university too — is not Harvard, but there is also a university in Aravaca — how much 8.90 is paid in every circulation, at most, and they are special areas. It usually doesn't go from 5.50, a third of the price. But that's right, twice the frequency. If you want to travel from Vallecas to Galapagar, it's a little less time -- there are people who take little time to travel from Vallecas to Galapagar, quite little --, 1.5 times more frequencies and we're at the same price: three times less. [[Applause]] Why do we always go out losing? Because we're the only large metropolitan area in Spain that doesn't have a nearby train. Because we have a large metropolitan area, which is our great city in Galicia, which is the Atlantic axis, which, because of the demographic imbalances we have -- and the People's Party cannot fix, probably because it doesn't want or doesn't know -- it has more than 50% of the population and fundamental economic and social dynamism of Galicia. More than half of the population is on the Atlantic axis that runs through our train in the Atlantic Strip. What's going on? That, as we have no regard for neighborhoods, we are paying double or triple with two or three times fewer frequencies of trains to make trips that elsewhere assume that they are so natural, so frequent, so common and so positive that you work and you prove that there is a reduction in prices and an increase in frequencies. Why not here? Well, probably, because our weight outside — thanks to our autonomous government — is quite limited, and probably because in some way it is considered that we must be much more economically powerful here and we can pay for it. What is the position of this group in this House today? Well, with such a surprise, say that if we can have as a Spanish State nearby in several metropolises, in metropolitan areas and large city environments, why can't we have it here in Galicia? With which we would favour environmental improvements, we would limit the use of vehicles, facilitate public transport, facilitate the exchange of labour, students, productive activity, which is basically the axis of why they are nearby. Because you don't decide to get close because you do. Asturias, Santander, Bilbao, San Sebastián, Zaragoza, Barcelona, Valencia, Murcia, Alacante, Seville, Cádiz or Madrid are dynamizing poles. Nearby trains contribute to much greater polarization, to much more powerful economic activity. What's the question then? The question is that we must demand no special or better treatment, but at least equal treatment. That's our defense. What do we think? We need to negotiate with the Ministry of Development for the transformation of the railway Atlantic axis into a nearby train, due to merit, due to the importance, for the social and economic impact it has in Galicia and may have, and because it is a question of equalization to participate in equal opportunities. Because it's not possible to assume that we have, for some extraplanetary reason, lower conditions or greater difficulties than other areas which, having similar conditions, have better possibilities. And it's not about making huge investments in civil works. If there was a lot of investment in civil work, it would be better for PP, because there's always more room for manoeuvre. But, in any case, there is no big investment, but necessarily an adoption to equalize citizens' opportunities. So what we're thinking is that, if there's a great city in Greece -- that's the one, that's the Atlantic axis -- why don't we have the big German subway, our nearby train? And that would be an opportunity. In recent times it has been known that there is an intention — or at least that is going to be announced — of large foreign companies entering the market from the liberalisation of this axis. That proves two things: first, there's a business space and, second, there's someone who's not taking advantage of it. Right now who has the opportunity to take advantage of it is the Administration. But when it's released, if the administration doesn't take advantage of it, it'll come in. And companies don't invest where they think they're going to have losses, they usually invest where they're going to get benefits. So, if you're interested in doing this, there's space, there's space to have a lot more frequencies than there are, a lot more. Probably, according to the calculations, there are four to five times more frequencies than there are. If there is that space and, besides, it has benefit forecast, why does the Administration, which is the title of the line, which is the owner of the line, which can do that management, not do it? First, let us negotiate with the Ministry of Development, implement this measure to the same extent as elsewhere. Second question: while this is not done, we can assume that a negotiation with that ministry should lead to, at least, an increase in frequencies and a reduction in prices. Until we establish the exact measure, we have to have that capacity. Third step — which will be in the future —: if the Ministry of Development did not want — even though Mr Feijóo and Mr. Minister for Development do not know whether they have a very bad or very good relationship, but it is only known that they are very often together, and it was already said that they "have close to your friends and closer yet to your enemies" — if that negotiation is not fruitful, because from there we need to consider ourselves if Galicia cannot therefore assume the possibility, since there are other companies interested in doing so, to enter into that competition and have its own line of proximity. It's another possibility. And our question, then, is: wasn't there anyone thinking about this in the German Government in the last few years? And if they did, why would they refuse? Because our approach is that we must have equal opportunities for other territories. That would give our country a chance to have an axis that would better communicate their workers, their students. This is an axis that communicates four campuses — or five, up to Ferrol — the three airports, communicates more than half of the population of Galicia, communicates large infrastructures, large institutions and communicates the economic and dynamizing poles of the most powerful industrial polygons. It's a communication axis on which we ourselves, here in this House, can verify that we make traps in any of the media that connect the cities that today connect by train through the Atlantic axis, many. Those axes, the dynamization they produce, and the demographic movements show that that's our economic power axis. Without leaving other territories — never — we can do what we have best. And that would allow us to have a more powerful, more productive economy, and above all on equal terms, that this is a matter where we insist a lot and we already know that, sometimes, a little dangerous. But we don't continue to have a comparison that we've always lost, in frequency, in investment. At the end they always pay the same, and so what we demand is that users have the same right as elsewhere so Galicia in general has greater opportunities. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u134	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u135	Thank you. Good afternoon. The truth is, we don't share Mr. Torrado's Atlantic enthusiasm, and that of the great city of Galicia so we know... i.e., there's more Galicia beyond the Atlantic axis, there's bigger cities in Galicia, although it's also true that the Atlantic axis has a vitality, a dynamism, which is obvious. Nor do we share the enthusiasm of the People's Party when it speaks of the figures on the railway Atlantic axis. There's actually been an increase, but it's not all the gold that's clocking. And this issue, by the way, has already been dealt with on several occasions in the plenary, but especially in Commission 2nd, where there have even been agreements to improve services and frequencies in this line. We would also kill ourselves with characteristics of the Atlantic axis the third, the line, The Horn-Ferrol, which we can say has a 20th century train by a route of the 19th century; and besides without prospects of improvement because in this year's budgets there is a ridiculous amount of 300,000 euros to do I don't know what to study, but really, even though the study made by the Galician Union, there is no forecast of investments to really modernise — which is a priority — the line between Coruña and Ferrol. And that's why one of our amendments goes precisely in this direction. And what shows this — like all the debate and what we are talking about — is the political irrelevance of the People's Party in Madrid, because even though these studies cannot be accepted in the State budgets. Well, indeed, we can recognize that there have been improvements in the Atlantic railway line between The Coruña and Vigo — and not in Ferrol, as I say — this is obvious. If we compare it, of course, with other plots, with other lines, it's light years, of course. If we talk about Ferrol-Ribadeo, for example, or about Lugo's connections to the Coruña, Santiago or Ourense, or Ourense with Vigo, or Ourense with Santiago, of course it's much better. But there are still a lot of shortcomings and shortcomings that have to do with the provision of the service, which have to do with the cuts that exist, for example, in the staff selling tickets, which also has to do with the lack of reinforcements on peak days and bridges -- which is an improvement that would also be necessary -- and therefore it seems that the only thing that interests Renfe here is to do business, because it's one of the most profitable lines of the state. But after that it is not accompanied by measures of empowerment and improvement, as would indeed be the main necessity, the transformation into a fence line. Neighborhoods basically mean three things: it means an electrified route — which is done in the case of this line — means more frequencies and better times and means lower prices. And these two premises are not met in the case of the Atlantic axis and it is absolutely scandalous and unjustifiable that at these heights it does not have these characteristics the line that goes from Vigo to Coruña. Because, as mentioned here, in the Spanish state, they have railways near Asturias, Cantabria, Euskadi, Catalonia, the Valencian Community, Murcia, Andalusia, Aragon or Madrid. And having nearby railways basically meant doubling services and schedules and halving prices. And let's do this on a line that you're the best in the world, like the Atlantic axis line; that I say it still has a lot of shadows and it needs a lot of improvements, and this is one of the main ones. And also — and in this sense goes the second of our amendments — we find it essential that Galicia assumes the competences in the area of nearby railways, along with the creation of this proximity service. I remind you, moreover, that this is a promise repeatedly disregarded by the People's Party, which already in 2010 announced the creation of a German railway body that we never knew. We knew there was a study or a project, but we never knew it again. Well, what they did after was, above all, dismantle railway lines and stations. In short, we think that the situation of this line, but above all the railway situation in Galicia, which points to the fraud of the People's Party's speech, which says it's a sustainable mobility, but in reality it's not affixed by the most sustainable, healthier and safer mobility, which is railway mobility. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u136	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u137	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Galicia is one of the few communities that lack proximity services, despite the fact that it relies on the railway infrastructure needed to have this proximity train, despite the fact that it is a historic claim and despite the social and environmental benefits that it would report to us. We can't talk about fighting climate change without moving the most sustainable modes of mobility. And for the transport of goods and collectives, the railway is undoubtedly the best option. Another of the advantages of dynamizing and encouraging the use of the railway lies in the improvement of the data of sinequality, which in Galicia has great importance for being at the head of all the rankings of sinequality. In this matter, the railway can bring a lot of margin of improvement by reducing traffic on the roads. Increasing train movements would also improve the growing problem of traffic massification and saturation in cities, and counting nearby trains also collaborates in defending the right to mobility. All these advantages make the administration an obligation to boost rail transport. And for that, we have to improve service and increase frequencies, adjust schedules, advance intermodality, drive proximity networks in the metropolitan areas, and offer affordable prices in the economic context in which we live the Greeks and the Greeks; accessible prices to go to study, to go to work and to do management to the Administration, which is what is essentially used by the Atlantic axis. We need to defend a quality public and social train, not to reduce and privatize the service. The start-up of the railway Atlantic axis has suggested an improvement in travel times, which has increased user usage, showing that, when this service is improved, the citizenry responds; which is a very good news because it indicates to us that it is a question of political will that we can dynamize this transport, since citizenship responds favorably to any improvement. This improvement in travel times was not accompanied by a good offer of frequencies and schedules or a good economic offer, in addition to leaving Ferrol discriminated against and without finishing the southern exit; a line that, since its inauguration, has dragged service deficits, which have been aggravated after the last changes in the sales channel, reducing the staff involved in the sale of tickets. Our position is clear in this regard, and so we have come to manifest all this legislation. We need to dynamize rail transport from the defense of a hundred percent public and social train, offering quality service, keeping away from those who intend to do business with what is all of them and giving them a social character. Rail transport should be used to promote Galicia's social and economic development, which is, as it is, a strategic element for the fight against climate change, for the dynamization of the economy and for the vertebration of the territory. However, Galicia is not taking full advantage of its potential. Over the past few years, we have seen annihilation of the proximity train, a reduction to ridiculous numbers of freight transport, a cancellation of lines, a closure of stations, frequency reductions, a cancellation of times with a significant level of users and cuts in maintenance and staff. It is neither tolerable nor rational that, after making such an important investment with all the money on the railway line of the Atlantic axis, you don't take advantage of all your potential, you don't take care of and improve the service. It is a line that has already been inaugurated, as I said, with important deficiencies, and which, far from being solved, the PP decided to get worse, and reducing the staff dedicated to the sale of tickets. We cannot allow the money of all to be handled so badly, and the public services to be handled so badly. With regard to improving frequencies and time adjustments on the Atlantic axis, we have already approved in Commission 2a a few months ago an initiative, which we brought from the En Marea Group, to improve frequencies and times. But it can be seen that the Minister of Development, in his usual line of discrimination against Galicia, did not have the right to put it into practice despite the fact that it is technically very easily feasible. At the bottom of all of this is the real reason for the abandonment of the conventional railway, the cuts that pay the majority of society while the great economic powers continue to increase their profits, the privatization of service in the last twenty-five years — in the state we have increased from 80,000 workers to 25,000 workers in the railway issue — and the other element is the business with AVE. In recent years 70% of railway budgets have been dedicated to AVE and only 30% for conventional trains, which uses more than 95% of users and users. The privatization process located the average age of workers in 54 years, the template is not renewed and is gradually being replaced by private companies. So we are going to support this initiative, because the railway, as a public service, must serve the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. And that this service is nearby is to put the railway to the service of the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else on my side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u138	Thank you, Mr. Cal. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Mr. Torrado, you again bring to this House a matter relating to state-owned railway services when you know that it is not directly responsible for the Union. And they can bring it, I'm not saying you can't bring it, but you know that the most agile, the real agile, would be to present this initiative directly to Congress. Because you do have a group, not like the BNG case. Because, Mr Bará, it's nice to hear about "political weight in Madrid," when the representatives of the BNG are zero, the same thing they almost have here. [[Applause]] But the lords of the PSOE, though it doesn't look like it, they do. [[Murmurs.]] Anyway, I think... [[Murmurs.]] Mr. President, I've heard the things they said, all I ask is time, I'm used to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u140	Don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u141	In any case, I believe that, as always, what it is about bringing this, of state competence, is trying to confuse and generate noise with little technical basis. Because look, Mr. Torrado, he's cheating. Because one thing is what he writes and another is what he tells us here. Because here, in the PNL, it's not about creating a neighbourhood service, but about turning the current Atlantic axis into surroundings, which are very different things. These are things other than what we've been discussing on other occasions. What you're talking about is transforming a service, which we now have, fast and efficient, into a neighborhood service, which is something else. So I think, first, we have to define what that proximity service is, the proximity train, which is designed for short distances. Look, you're proposing here to turn 200 kilometers away in the vicinity. None of the examples you've mentioned are 200 kilometers, none of them, because they're something else. And that's why I say he cheats. Besides, I was glad to hear you, after fifteen years, that they pick up the theme of "Galicia Single City" from the guidelines. But, as Mr Bará said, I would also tell him that we have the inside. Then we'll talk about Lugo and Ferrol, because here too, is that we all have similar opportunities. And I think, in the case of Lugo-Ferrol, we're working on it now, because I think they deserve to have those same infrastructures as well. In any case, he talked about frequencies and he talked about prices, but he didn't talk about times, competitiveness and services. Look, the surrounding trains in the rest of Spain go up to 100, and the best tech lines, up to 125, and not 160. Besides, they have more stops, which we'd waste time between cities. Because they're different things, as I said before, transport systems. One thing is mid-distance services, 160, and another thing is surrounding trains, which are much less advanced, or, let's say, not the last generation like these mid-range trains. Besides, we would lose time and competitiveness not only by stops, but also by the speed of the convoys. In any case, he also does something of a trap, because, although there is nothing written, all the examples he says, a minimum of them, are above the 10,000 travellers a day and for each of these sections. The best case of the Atlantic axis is the Sanctuary Coruña, which is 3,500 travellers a day. But in any case, I say we're still cheating, because we're talking about other things that, as we were saying, we've already discussed in Commission 2a. As far as the second point is concerned, we've also supported this. He's already working on the board, and we're still willing to continue supporting him. But here they connect directly with the creation of neighborhoods, that is, they ask for these reductions in consideration of neighborhoods and link them with the creation of neighborhoods, mixing, as I say, the Atlantic axis with vicinity, that they should be different things and ideas. Look, let's continue to demand the improvements in frequencies, adapt citizens' demands to the hours offered, in bonuses for, in particular, concrete packages to specific profiles. We'll continue on this line, demanding. We know that the German Government has already done so before the competent Government, which is the Government of Madrid, and we hope that they will be carried out in the near future. In any case, and to remember something — because many things are being heard here — the clear bet of Galicia and the People's Party for the Railroad I believe that the budgets say it, that we hope their groups will vote this week in Madrid. Of the €900 million of budget investments, more than half go on railway, considering, Mr Bará — what he cannot ask for in May 2018 is a project for 2018 — that of Coruña-Ferrol. The €300,000 goes to these studies in the 2019 budget. You can't support it in Madrid, but let's hope the other groups can support it and have this study for Ferrol and La Coruña, with the requests that the study by the Board includes to have that train at the same level as the rest of the Atlantic axis. And we must also remember Lugo, who a few days ago presented the minister and the president that update of the line with the electrification that is required and with all measures so that it is also at the same level of quality that we have on the rest of the Atlantic axis. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u142	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u143	Thank you, President. I would like to thank the support expressed by the En Marea and BNG groups. It is true that the BNG group with a certain discrepancy. It's not Atlantic enthusiasm, it's productive realism. It's just, in order to defend one part, there's no need to attack the other part. That's what we internationalists have, which we're not in, but, anyway, I think we basically share the same idea. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] On the amendment we believe it is productive and contributes to enriching. He's talking only about the Atlantic axis, as we almost always talk about AP-9 and not others. I mean, in the end, I think we all fall into the same question. We're only going to propose a small transaction, which is to incorporate in point 3 — add — that you can study the incorporation of the frame A Coruña-Ferrol to AVE, to know if it's possible and to have data about it. We regret the rejection of the People's Party. It's curious the argument is being defended. The first one is the nicest, most sympathetic, is that of competences, competences, and by a political group that has brought this House to urge parliamentary groups in Congress of Members to rethink their political stance on things. And we can't ask the Board to negotiate something with the Ministry of Education on Greek infrastructure, but we can ask the parliamentary groups in Congress to change their position on something. [[Applause]] There's a question of competence, but then I'll explain, Mr. Fernández Prado, don't worry. Anyway, we have a group in Madrid and we can introduce... we have a group in "a", all in "a" eth!, none in "b". But in the end, those things I know that you don't... [[Protests.]] Valencia, Valencia! Yes, yes, yes... you in Valencia have a group in "a", "b" and "z" in Zaplana too. Don't think it's quiet, it's okay. [[Strong murmurers.]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u144	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You're the only People's Party who respects me in this House. How I appreciate it! Thank you very much. [[Laughter]] Finally, on the traps, traps are even interpretation. Look at what he says. The proposal speaks of taking into consideration the proximity—not even transform—and that there are between four and five times more possibilities...—Yeah, but what is approved is the resolution part, sir... parliamentary dynamics is something else.—What there are between four and five times more possibilities to increase the fringes on the Atlantic axis. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We could have a solution to increase existing ones, we could have a solution to compatibility existing ones with other types of route. We could have two types of speed, or three types of speed. We could have two hundred unique fringes and frequencies with the same kind of time. We could have a lot of things, which is that it's best not to do anything. We've got 17 in the Coruña-Vigo plot and we could have over 200 practically in some sections. So it's not a question that there are no fringes. It's not a matter of distances either. By the way, I did. Today the distance, which is times -- although several of those I've put there are the same times, the examples I've set up are the same times. Of course the distance is times, and of course there are distances in different kilometers. By the way, several of the things I've been thinking about prove to be done by car. You'll see how the distance, though smaller in miles, is much larger in time than it takes in Galicia. Because dynamics are different in even geographic terms. I think the trick is to use that argument to slip. And finally, the number of travelers. There are many occasions when trains in Galicia run out of tickets. That, for someone even who knows little about business economy like me, says there's more demand than supply. And besides, for those who claim that the offer creates demand, if there is any more demand, our perception and that of the whole world is that, if there was more supply, there would be a lot more demand. We would consider, moreover, the possibility of encouraging our citizens to travel more by train, which is also a consideration that we believe to be quite productive. Ultimately, the traps are the arguments against, the reality is that, for some reason, the Union does not want to invest its effort in this. But the reality is that you're making people pay three times more for their ticket to travel with three times less frequency opportunities a territory, than elsewhere they do. By the way, once they say he has a relationship with the Ministry of Development, we keep insisting: ask him what seems to him like the Ministry of Development. Maybe we can negotiate. And if we don't, we use our strength to probably do a study on whether we should have a nearby German train.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u147	And that would have been done by the Council of Galicia itself. That would be looking at the nearby train. Maybe the traps are actually to say things to prove they don't want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u148	Thank you. Speaking of groups, thanks to those who today have contributed to increasing the reserves of blood groups. Thank you, because today's prayer unit was here and I think this campaign was quite successful. Next proposal is not law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and D. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the financing of local authorities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u149	This motion for a non-legislative amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales and by the Group on the Environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u150	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The promises of the Galician People's Party on election campaign are: "It is an obligation to modernize the local public administration to improve its service delivery and to continue providing the local authorities with the best tools to deepen the provision of quality public services, the effectiveness of its management and the proximity to citizens" — the 2016 election campaign. But the reality of the Greek Town Councils, once the People's Party wins the elections, is that the Greek Town Councils had to manage them with less resources and with the limitation of their own autonomy to be able to cope with the problems of men and women in their territory. With fewer resources they cared for people to avoid social exclusion and to avoid economic exclusion. And with fewer resources they served the public services of their municipalities without stopping to think about who the competition was. Finally, while the governments of the People's Party of Galicia and the Government of the People's Party of the State were concerned about timing, local governments were concerned about meeting people's needs. The contribution in recent years of the policies of the People's Party to local governments has been very low. It was a disproportionate increase in administrative work, a disruption of political work, a division of unreasonable competences. And they were given powers to Members that they didn't have, and they weren't the most suitable administrations to lend them. It is also true that during the last appearances of the Government of the People's Party in this German Parliament we are very proud that Galicia has experienced a healthy and continuous growth over the past four years. And they raised the growth of the last year, in terms of GDP, to 4.2%, in the words of the German Government. But the municipal policies of the People's Party, with this healthy growth and this growth in GDP, continue to be restricted in resources and expansion in competences. When will you once notice for all this healthy growth, of what you speak, of the Greek men and women? When will an increase in its resources be noted in the municipalities after enduring a crisis situation for eight years? What would happen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party if the councils only dedicated themselves, just like the Government of the People's Party at Galicia's Union or that the Government of the People's Party in the State, matching accounts and not paying attention to people? Do you imagine how the social and economic situation of many families, of the worst of them, could be? [[Applause]] Look, the management of Galician Union towards local governments is that the reality of 2017 — Local Cooperation Fund — is just about 115 million euros. By 2009 there were almost 116 million euros. And if we stick strictly to what is going to be allocated to all the municipalities — 2017-2019 — we have lost in the Local Cooperation Fund in these eight years, 3 million euros. This is the contribution of the Galician Union to local entities: EUR 3 million less for the Local Cooperation Fund. And the last laws adopted in this Parliament — I certainly forget some — that confer competence on the municipalities are: the Law of public shows and recreational activities, the Law of animal welfare and the Law of promotion of the implementation of business initiatives. Please tell me how many of the competences granted to the municipalities in these laws have brought together the corresponding funding — they now have the opportunity to challenge me — as set out in the Constitution, the Charter of Local Self-Government, the Galician Statute or the Law of Local Administration. Please tell me where the resources are. How many resources have come up so they can develop their skills? You always use the principle of "the Guest Board and the Town Councils pay." Do you know what the principle of financial adequacy implies? For the Greek local authorities must have sufficient means to carry out the functions which the laws themselves grant them, and which must be fed by their own taxes, income from the State and participation in the incomes of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. But we know, we socialists know perfectly well, as you understand that of financial adequacy. The last example is the call for grants from the Order of 25 April 2018, grants in non-competitive competition for the creation and improvement of infrastructure and equipment in the municipalities of Galicia for 2018, with which they provide something more than four million and in which they can achieve, at most, 500,000 euros for each of the Greek municipalities. The deal would be... well, that way. But we imagine that it will happen again as it has already happened with Plan Urbe, in which its mayors and mayors and 94% of the municipalities benefited from that Plan Urbe, also in non-competitive competition, were Town Councils of the People's Party. [[Applause]] Do you really believe that the councils that are governed by other mayors and other mayors who are not from the People's Party — that is, the same party that is in the Government and Galician Union — do not need to improve infrastructure and equipment? We'll be very careful to publish the issuance of these aids, pending the entry order of these tips and the moment the credit is running out. Because I guess they're not going to use the lack of transparency again in the information, I hope it's not. Would it not be much more appropriate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that these 4,300,000 euros would become part of the Local Cooperation Fund to make a division between all the Greek municipalities and therefore benefit all the Greeks or all the Greeks and, at least, reach the same level as he was when he ruled Emilio Pérez Touriño? Wouldn't it be much more appropriate? You are called municipalists, but, look, you had to be a socialist president of the Galician Union, Emilio Pérez Touriño, who had signed the local pact. And I remind you that twelve years later it's not fully developed yet. And it had to be a socialist mayor, the mayor of Vigo — President of the FEMP — Abel Caballero, who had reached an agreement with the Montoro minister to achieve what all mayors and all mayors — regardless of their political colour — were demanding, which was reinvesting the surplus generated by their municipalities, fulfilling the cost rule and paying to suppliers. By the way, I would like to remind you that on 16 March 2018 in Commission 3 you voted against this agreement, you voted against the agreement reached by the minister of your party, the People's Party, and the mayor, and president of FEMP, Abel Caballero. Can you explain your vote? Don't you agree? I imagine they would explain clearly to the mayors and mayors of the People's Party why their vote was negative at this point. Anyway, it must always be a socialist who gets the things the municipalities ask for. And, therefore, we do manifest our municipalist vocation. On 14 February 2017, the Fegamp Executive Commission adopted the Fegamp Executive Commission unanimously — and I repeat, of all political groups, i.e. the People's Party also included— a document called the executive summary of the analysis commission for the study and proposed measures aimed at reforming the legislation governing local holdings, where several points are established — local financing, participation in the income of the Autonomous Community and transfers through grants — and, in short, for the executive summary of the analysis commission for the study and proposed measures for the reform of the legislation governing local holdings of local holdings, where several points are established — local funding are established — local funding, local funding, local funding, local funding, participation in the income of the Autonomous Community and transfers through grants, and, in short, in summary: because I do not have time for much longer, because I do not have time for much longer, because I have less time, because I have less time for the final transfers from the organization of the municipalities in the Local Cooperation Local Cooperation Local Cooperation Fund, where possible, and stable time, because, because I intend to keep, because, because, because I intend to keep, because, because I am able, because I am able to keep, because I am able to keep, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable, that I have all in providing all in terms for all in providing all in terms, and stable, and stable, and stable, and stable for all in providing for all in providing for all in providing all in providing all in the assets in providing, and stable, and stable for, and stable infrastructure in providing for the service, and stable infrastructure in the service, as in providing for the service, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond the provision, and beyond the provision, and beyond the provision of the provision, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, In your hand you are voting either for or against. I know in advance, almost as I suppose, that the vote may be against. But it's really going to be one more, once again, show that you're not a municipal government. What you want is for the municipalities to be protected by the Council of Galicia and to do their will. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u153	Thank you. The BNG will support this initiative because, as the spokesman for the Socialist Group said, it is part of this set of demands that were submitted by the Fegamp in April 2017, collected in two documents: what Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo mentioned and also the document by a new model of local funding, which, as she explained very well, was agreed and agreed by all political groups. These documents called for very specific questions and demands for this legislation, and we do not see by the Government that there is interest in adopting these instruments that would really improve significantly and clarify — they would make fair and more objective — the system of sharing and participation of the municipalities in the resources of the Galician Union that correspond to them. First of all, we are talking about a document of a Welsh law of local estates which is in agreement with the Fegamp, in which we manage the economic and financial situation of the local authorities of Greece, in view of its diversity within the state. Secondly, it proposes — which coincides with the Socialist Party's initiative — a law regulating participation in the incomes of the Autonomous Community, which seems absolutely fundamental and priority; it says that at least criteria are introduced into the distribution formula which take account of demographic and territorial aspects that affect the cost of services provided by the municipalities and also — this also seems very relevant — variables that objectively measure the fiscal co-responsibility of each municipality. Another of the demands — as has already been referred to by the Socialist spokesperson — is that of transfers and grants, which call for them to be integrated, as far as possible, into the Local Cooperation Fund, and for those who do not do so to be divided with objective criteria for sharing. And here reference was made, for example, to Plan Hurbe, but they could also talk about the Resurbe and many other plans, not to mention now all the agreements that make free discretion with governments of the People's Party of the Town Councils, starting with the waters of Galicia, which is a real scandal as the funds are distributed. It is also called for the amendment of the Budget Stability Act to, in some ways, compensate the municipalities for the enormous effort they have made over these years by reducing spending and obtaining surplus figures that have enabled them to contribute to the improvement of the public deficit. But, of course, all this, since it is important, since it is very important, it does not seem to us that it is the main and fundamental one, that is why we are presenting an amendment that is going to address the issue which we believe is absolutely central and priority, which is to change the local financing system and also the system of autonomous financing, that of financing Galicia, because if we are not in the distribution of crumbs. The resources are currently insufficient and there is obvious discrimination of the Greek municipalities in the current local funding system, which has also denounced Fegamp, denounced and, above all, demonstrated by data over these years with numerous reports demonstrating that it is an insufficient system, which is discriminatory, that it is unfair, that it is a real aggravating for Galicia, because the Greek municipalities have lost over these years more than 1,400 million euros by this discriminatory and unfair system, because it does not take into account the singularity of our territory, essentially in a question which is absolutely crucial to measure the cost of services, which is the number of nuclei of population. We have half the population nucleus of the state, and this has to be a determining factor in the distribution of resources. In this respect there have been numerous agreements in this Parliament, some of them the instance of the BNG, one of them since 2015, which have not been complied with. The Greek municipalities have been claiming a new local funding system for almost eight years, which is fair to the needs of our country. And for us this is not enough either, because it must be framed in a new model of autonomous financing that ends with this centralized and uniform system, a system therefore in concert that strengthens self-government and gives us more resources to provide better services to the population of Galicia and also to finance the municipalities better. We therefore hope that they will support this amendment, and we will in any event announce the vote in favour of the Nationalist Block of Wales on the proposal of the Socialist Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u154	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u155	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will also support this PSdeG proposal on all issues and on all the arguments put forward in this forum by the group that proposes the initiative, also by the arguments put forward by the Member of the Galician Nationalist Block. Furthermore, we understand that it is a matter on which, as there is a great deal of agreement — as has already been said — by most municipalities represented in the Fegamp, there is not much to discuss. There is therefore broad and clear consensus and support as to the situation of the municipalities and the difficulties they have in providing services, because they are more than tangible. We understand that the Members of the People's Party, as they are very concerned about municipalism and how, moreover, they invade their interventions — usually in municipalist matters — especially where they are in the opposition — because they are desperate to enter the governments that occupy parties and left-wing projects, will support this initiative. We would also like to focus on the situation that the municipalities are going through and how they are getting drowned after they had to face the lack of resources and the economic situation, in many cases, in an almost epic way, because it's the administration closest to citizenship, something that was as dramatic as embarrassing. And it has to be pointed out again that, while the culprits of the crisis — as in almost every area, even now those companies that seem to have nothing to do with the PP — continue to gain benefits, and while those who stole and led to the crisis situation and ruin to many of the municipalities don't return a euro, many don't pay for justice, neighbors and neighbors continue to have insufficient services, because the municipalities don't have the resources they need. Apart from all these proposals and all these measures, it is necessary to focus on the great scourge that is damaging the entire public system, which is corruption. Today we saw Mr. Zaplana's arrest, an investigation that pursued irregularities in the granting of ITV when he was President of the Generalitat. Among the detainees is the entrepreneur Vicente Cotino, nephew of former vice president Juan Cotino, benefiting from a concession of wind energy: politicians of the People's Party, companies. Mr. Montoro Manstesoiras is the great architect of these measures of strangulation of the Town Councils; his number two, no less than the Secretary of State of Fairy, is also charged with prevarication and misrepresentation when he was mayor of Jaén. He said the investigation, the dilemmas, which he personally ordered, against the reports and unlawful repairs of the Chinese consistorial, different payments to the Matinsreg company, which presented false invoices in which concepts and services invoiced not actually executed, generating a considerable burden of gravity for the municipality. This is the policy in which it refers to the councils of the People's Party and, no less, to which Mr. Montoro's number two applied. We're not talking about a militant or those isolated, rotten apples of what you now deny. Beyond asking for this cleanup that would give resources to the municipalities and all of us, which seems to us more a utopia than a reality seeing their modus operandi with respect to the treatment of corruption in their ranks, in this House we have to watch over the situation of our municipalities, but being aware of this ruinous situation in which they have been left; not even those who have done their duties and have reduced their debts and have overcome them let them use, by the regulations of the superminister Montoro, the surpluses they have. In the case of Galicia, they are far more irresponsible of their "dead bodies", because we are one of the least resourced national territories for our municipalities; at the state level, we are more underfunded, with a ridiculous increase this year, above all with unexecuted budgets, and that is why we agree with this proposal. But we also agree with the Nationalist Bloc that is not enough, we believe that we must increase and bet on asking for the state of negotiation of a local funding framework, which is really the key — technically, modelly — to the problem that our municipalities are suffering, to bring up the level of income of our municipalities to those in the middle of the European Union state and to make it compatible with the financial adequacy resulting from the solution of inappropriate competences associated with specific projects. And, above all, to conclude, we would also like to know — that the People's Party is so aware of these municipalist issues — as is the state of implementation of an initiative adopted unanimously by all groups, including the People's Party, in 2015; the Committee on Economics, Farms and Budgets, unanimously, on 9 April 2015 urged the Council of Galicia to demand reform of the current local financing model in accordance with the following criteria: to provide more resources to the Greek municipalities, to adopt the criteria for dispersal and ageing of the population for the sharing of State income participation, the IEPs, because they are factors that have a decisive impact on the cost of services provided by the Galician municipalities, and to transfer to the United States the count corresponding to the IPE for the Greek Administration to carry out the distribution of these funds among the municipalities. Finally, we would like to know whether the People's Party, of the absolute and absolutist majority, meets the agreement in this House, because they agree, if they comply with the law, if we've come here to earn the money for something or they're still making marketing policy instead of solving the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, especially those who supposedly so much trust you and those you owe them so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to talk to the groups that have some proposal for municipalism, we can either match it or not, but at least they have some municipalist proposal, the argumentaries leave it to those who have 140 characters left, even though they already have 240 characters. Look, I think we actually agreed, Mrs Rumbo, that the local administration has been in need of a long time to improve its funding, especially since an economic crisis that has reduced its income considerably. I'm not going to talk about issues that we've been talking about for a long time, because of the reduction in income from construction tax, installations and works, which fell almost 60%, and other income that the municipalities had at that time. But you also know that there are other issues of direct management -- Mr. Leicega won't let me lie -- for example on local networks, that the direct management of municipal taxes is also in Galicia more than 25% less than in other Spanish municipalities; but these issues and other variables that we could talk about, I only have five minutes, I can't talk about everything, but I would like to talk about accounts. Because you made some misconceptions here, Mrs. Rumbo. Of course, you take the painting, you take the base, of course, and you compare the base background with the total background. Of course, that's impossible, Mrs. Rumbo. Look, I'm going to give you the figures, because you already know them, but don't cheat, don't cheat, because then we're never going to agree. The base fund in 2008 was EUR 104.082.175. In 2018 it is EUR 112,972,806 million. Of course, you've bought me the EUR 119,499,067 from the total of 2008 with the EUR 112,972,806, which gives you the 3 million. But look, no, it's not 3 million less, it's 6 million more. Compare the totals, because you see, the total in 2008 was EUR 119,499,067. Do we agree? Yes. In 2009 there were 124,730,788. Do we agree? Yes. E in 2018, 125,594.165. If you do this, it's 6 million euros more, not to mention you, Mrs. Rumbo, who also knows about the specific fund for collecting the wind canon, which by 2018 is 11.2 million euros more. Then don't cheat on the lonely. Because look, in your proposal there are three proposals, on the one hand regulation by law. We've already discussed here a proposal for the Socialist Group's law, I'm not going to repeat the speech or the intervention, because I think my comrade Peaces has explained it very well. As far as you are concerned about the possibility of regulating the Local Cooperation Fund by law, you know that it is regulated, Mrs Martínez Rumbo, in the additional fifth provision of Law 14/2010, of December 27, of general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2011, which has permanent supervision, and is in full vigil, Mrs Rumbo; then I do not know what you want to regulate that is not there, because the Local Cooperation Fund is regulated. In this regulation contains plaza as an unconditional fund, so that the amount received for the Greek municipalities operates as a resource of their own and can be destined for what they want, without having to justify the expenses they carry out. This is a guaranteed fund, since its amount cannot be lower in any exercise to which each council received in 2010. As you know, the People's Party when it entered the Government on the board of Galicia in 2009, actually guaranteed a minimum for the Local Cooperation Fund that was not guaranteed, and in this way, Mrs. Martínez Rumbo, you well know that in the years 2013, 2014 and 2015 it operated that minimum by preventing the municipalities' income from falling, as they did for our general administration, and there was no question of matching the accounts, as you said here, but it was about ensuring that there was a minimum fund of cooperation for the municipalities. A minimum that guaranteed the People's Party and not the Socialist Party when he ruled in the Bipartite, as you just said. [[Applause]] See, in addition, Mrs Martínez Rumbo from the Local Cooperation Fund, budgets include appropriations for expenditure relating to agreements and grants which also have as recipients the Greek municipalities. You intend, at your initiative, to incorporate these budget appropriations annually into this fund, but that brings trouble. I don't have much time to explain. First, in the field of own competences there are different sectoral areas of the Galician Union, since the management of the fund does not correspond to these sectoral areas, for example dependency and employment policies account for 2018 for more than 43.8 million, especially, that is, almost half of the total amount of the 2018 agreements and grants, which could not be incorporated into that fund. Secondly, it may happen that some of these actions do not strictly correspond to the competences of all municipalities, some of them refer to or benefit from specific municipalities and are nominal in nature that prevents their integration into a general fund of distribution, such as the Local Cooperation Fund. You also know that these appropriations either come from finalist transfers from the State or from own funds from the Autonomous Community, and are subject to the appropriations that are established...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u158	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u159	...in the budgets and these territorial organizations approve, so they are difficult to consolidate from one exercise to another. I don't have time to tell you all these issues that you know perfectly, what happens here is that you try to say things that are not, they come here saying that if the Board gives them to the councils of the PP... Look, this happens in the Deputies, speak to you... Yes, look, at Lugo, which already comes from the legacy of Mr. Bester, that we all know how it ended, that of that you don't want to talk to Mr. Pachi Vázquez; talk to Mrs. Mari Carmen Silva, that as far as you see Mr. Bará that does not seem scandalous, because in Pontevedra, of course, they won't protest because they give them more or Nigeria than other municipalities who are not of their own... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u160	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u161	...but they come here to say, to think, that the lion believes are all of his condition, and it's not true, gentlemen. If you act like this in Lugo or Pontevedra, the Galician Union doesn't act like this. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u163	First of all, thanks to BNG and En Marea for their favourable vote. Of course, we are what we have moved here — as it cannot be otherwise — is the logical claim of all mayors and all mayors, as I have already said in my first intervention — regardless of their political colour. We are trying to avoid the discretion that the People's Party has got us used to and that men and women living in municipalities that are not governed by mayors or mayors of the People's Party have similar treatment. And with the amendments that you have just tabled, we will try to make a transaction that you agree with that you propose to go out in favor, although we know that it will be negative; little will we do because the People's Party is going to press again — and I'm sorry for the word — if it once again obscurs itself to say that they are municipalists when reality is far from that. Look, I have the evolution of the Local Cooperation Fund here 2001-2017, and this table is presented by Fegamp, which is not presented by me. And when you tell me I cheat, I'll explain why I cheat. I'll explain where the trap is, if you think it's a trap. See, in 2017, the total area of the Local Cooperation Fund here, in the Budget Act — which means I haven't just invented — was EUR 115,209,033, wasn't it? Yeah, right? Well, that's 112,972,806 base base, and, do you know why I compare with that? Because the other 2 million were unique and exclusively for the merged municipalities. So they didn't go to the rest of the municipalities. Yes, Mrs. Prado, yes, it is. What happens is that it's hard for you to understand that it's a bet for municipalism and that it's a bet for all the municipalities and all the Greek municipalities. [[Applause]] You are here anyway, you can also explain to me what the vote was against, because you think you were the pioneer in Commission 3 when you were adopting and proposing an agreement to which the president of FEMP and Minister Montoro arrived. I suppose it will be because the president of FEMP is the mayor of Vigo, who is a socialist mayor, Abel Caballero; I suppose it will be for that, because if I don't suppose he will explain it to all mayors and all mayors. Look, what's clear is that when we rule socialists we seek absolute equality of treatment, absolute equality of treatment! and when they rule you're not like that, no matter how much they laugh. And look, today we bring a GNP, among other things, what we ask is why if the Galician Board in 2017 has some initial credits that increase the amount of outstanding credits in more than 351 million euros, why does it leave without spending 43,708,000 euros for the Greek municipalities? That's our question, and that's what's in the exhibition of our PNL. What happens is one thing is what they say and another very different from what they do. I told you from the very first moment, and you don't like it very much, Mrs. Prado del Río, and you always do what you do to not do anything; they only do on paper, but then reality is very much. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the measures to be taken and the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to ensure the access of the Galician society to audiovisual content that distributes the different platforms in original version subtitled in English
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u165	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u166	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I'm going to read to them something, if you'll excuse me, if you don't, too: "I associate the Greek with something more intimate, because I've always spoken to my family; then, like, when I speak Greek, it's when someone wants to tell you that you're as close to him as you are; however, the Spanish was to talk to the rest of the people. So, really, I think that as a language to express myself, i.e., it's my opinion, it's worth it, but that really when we use, to me, the Spanish is like I give more importance to it, because I'm going to Madrid tomorrow or Barcelona and I'm not going to speak Greek." "I when I think of the Galician I associate it with older people more than teenagers, and when I hear it, it's usually very closed. Then because it belongs to a certain area, and that it does not, the Spanish is more, therefore, for the cities. For example, I have biology in Galician, I have no idea; you put me on a test and I'm going to do it in Spanish, because I don't want to do it in Galician, because I don't know half the terms and because I'm going to have a lot of missing spelling. And there is music in Galician that is very good, another thing is that maybe you make a song in Galician and, usually, as it only goes to the Galician public. Yes, it's going to be as well known among the Galician public, and you make a song in Spanish and you can hear a person from Madrid, Barcelona or anywhere. And it's a little bit, from what it seems, that you have it as a lot of mix, that you're very Galician talking, so unless it's why, you're going to sing in Spanish, normally." "I at WhatsApp never use the Greek. And one thing I'm interested in, you, for example, tell me that you always speak English, if you put a WhatsApp on me now, would you put it in Welsh? In Spanish, what about that? I don't know! WhatsApp always in Spanish; now, speak, forget it." These reflections are taken from the report published by the Galician Council of Culture, Practices and Linguistic attitudes of youth in Galicia. These are conversations between the same developed in 2017, people between sixteen and eighteen years old, mainly from Vigo, but also from Viveiro. The report reflects how the conclusions reflect the survival of stereotypes, the reproduction of an imaginary that continues to view Welsh as the language of the rural world, which belongs to the elderly. Prejudiced representations about the language that gives values like freedom or utility only to Spanish. The Council also warns of intergenerational transmission as a cause of disqualification, a rupture in the transmission of Greek among the different generations, which is not only a consequence of family decisions — it completes the recent study of the Academy of Galician Language — but comes from aspects related to the lack or null presence of Greek in secondary socialization, particularly in school, but also in the media, understood in a broad sense. And in view of this reality, we are asked what the Government of the People's Party is doing, and there are two options here, because there are two options: first, you could recognize reality, attend to and take note of what the Academy, the Council of Culture or even the Council of Europe is saying; they could also meet, what the Galician Nationalist Block says, but we're not going to ask them for similar effort, but they're going to pay attention to official institutions — two of them statutarias — and to the data that we have exercised our competence, the legal obligations that the Union has, and to develop a policy of linguistic normalization planned, comprehensive, strategic, continued over time, duly budgeted, aimed at gaining spaces of use, guaranteeing linguistic rights, promoting the exercise of those rights and combating — especially of fighting — prejudices, stereotypes like those we've just heard. But no, you've decided to do exactly the opposite of that, you've cut budgets down to satiety, 73% of the matches directed to the normalization of uses of the Greek language. They have passed a decree for teaching that directly violates the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization, and they have not advanced, at all, in the sectors that make up that plan, in which there are hundreds of measures, hundreds of measures, to normalize the Greek language, to ensure the possibility of living fully and freely in Greek, and who so desires, those we wish, that we can conquer new social functions, more spaces of use, promote a modern and useful vision of the Greek language, with a policy that will destroy prejudices it, which reinforces the collective esteem of this country towards one language, that of all, increasing demand. And in order to be able to do that, in order to guarantee linguistic rights, in order to be able to choose, there has to be the very possibility of choice, and that today, in many respects, is science fiction. The initiative we are defending today since BNG is a proposal for minimums, minimums, minimums. It is a proposal that is still minimal, and being collected in some respects in the General Plan for Linguistic Standardization of fourteen years ago, what is evidenced is the lack of a policy of clear and planned standardization by the Government, concrete actions aimed at fulfilling the objectives set out in that plan of standardization, in a sector, in addition to a completely strategic sector, such as cultural industries and the media. We propose something as elementary as that the Union develops the necessary measures to ensure access to a wide range of subtitles in the English language of both cinematographic films and foreign television series. It enables users, cinemas or platforms to access these products and to make them available for their consumption in an original version subtitled to English. Today it is developing — and it is a curious and beautiful coincidence — at the University of Santiago a congress entitled "Languages and Cinema. Indicators for a subtitle program." It is something that Basque and Catalan governments have been developing, through their areas of linguistic policy, aware of the importance they have for the normalization of minority languages — like our own — cultural consumption in their own language, either through the dissemination and promotion of the original creation in English, or through the bending and subtitle of cutting, prestigious and current productions. Between 2014 and 2017 the Lakua Department of Linguistic Culture and Policy, the Basque Government, made available to users and cultural agents the subtitles of 279 films and 225 chapters of 24 television series. In 2016 Movistar+ subtitled 230 films and 20 TV series in Catalan. Last year Netflix offered for the first time 8 Catalan-folded films, adding to other suppliers who had already come to do so, such as Canal+, Yomvi, Filmin or AppleTV. A talking Ukrainian or Catalan person can access content in original version subtitled to his/her language through the work of his/her governments, the agreements signed with the platforms and the economic, technical and linguistic resources that the Administration has provided to guarantee a fundamental right to society as a whole, whether or not they choose this option from their menus. And they became aware that these audiovisual platforms and productions are a necessary space to contribute to the normalization of uses of their languages. Game of Thrones, House of Cards, Orange is the new black or The Danish Girl are productions that can be viewed in original version subtitled to Basque or Catalan, but not in Greek. What we ask today is political will, the only thing we ask for is political will for our language to gain one more space, a well symbolic and prestigious space, that we place the Greek next to Swedish, French, Portuguese, Catalan and Spanish, and in addition has a luxury opportunity for the Government to begin to apply this measure, if there is any agreement, in this second edition of the Connecta Fiction that will take place in Santiago de Compostela next June, and in which representatives will be represented — worth the redundancy, or on which they will be present — these platforms. A good space to move them the desire and will of this country that our language can be one more option in their menus. We hope to count on the support of the House. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u167	Thank you, Mr. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs Rodil, of course, we are going to support this initiative, it could not be otherwise, since we are making exactly the same request at the end of 2017 in Commission 4a. I wish you had a lot more success than I had, because the fact is that the People's Party — with arguments that are not supported — said that not when he was asked to take the steps to do something that has been done for years — as you said — by doing Catalonia or the Basque Country. Let us say that the spokesperson of the People's Party, at that time, said that since they could offer technical support—of course, it was only missing!, that if they asked for technical support—or that private companies could not be given money, certainly forgetting the important amounts of money that would be directed to traditional media to promote the use of Greek, and that they are private companies, as private as Netflix or Movistar. You have, too, all the right, and we have been for a long time — as you, of course — defending that the Greek must be present in all activities, and every time this is more important towards youth, and, above all, it's more important because Greek has to be united with new technologies, it has to be united with the far-reaching innovations, it cannot be relegated to some activities. That's what Catalonia and the Basque Country have been doing since 2014 in collaboration agreements with Movistar+, before Canal+, and now, also, Netflix, as you said, with frankly important results, and at this moment everything that is projected in Movistar+, in the "Star Channel", as its director says, has subtitles in Catalan. All that is projected into that Mover+ channel and also in series. Of course, also in Basque, but what's not projected at all with subtitles is in English. It's the only language in this state that has no presence on these audiovisual platforms. Well, you could either say or put on the price problem. The price is, frankly, small; the data I have for the Basque Country has a cost between 2014 and 2016 of 190,000 euros. It's really small, besides considering that all the work that is done in this case with the Basque Country, subtitles, subtitles, is subsequently owned by the Basque Government; that is to say, then you can do these platforms — at least I think you referred to them and in the explanatory statement if you do — where there's the possibility of getting closer only to the film, to the movies, but also to the subtitle. That is to say, they have been very advanced, and also with a very good result, said by the governments themselves, that they consider this to be one of the important measures for the normalization of their languages, of their languages: Catalan and Basque. None of this is done since the German Government. The truth is that it's already almost a problem of pride, that is, it's almost embarrassing to think that it can be on Canal+ -- that you can see subtitles -- a novel film in Catalan and Euskera and you can't see it in Greek. Why can't you see? Why is our language not good for such considerations? No, just because the Government of Galicia is not about the work of pushing, let's say, measures that can really benefit our language. Reasons for not accepting this non-law proposal do not exist, I considered it when we presented our own and I continue to consider it; I really hope that the People's Party from that moment had been weighing matters up again and reaching a policy of the 21st century, and above all a policy of really encouraging our language, which unfortunately they are not doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u170	Thank you, President. It goes on to say that from the Parliamentary Group in Marea we will support this non-law proposal, and we will support it because it coincides, absolutely, with one of the concerns that this group has shown on numerous occasions in this House, such as the language rights, abused and put in question by this government, many more times than it should. We won't get tired of saying it, we can't accept that on occasion, like last week, Letter Day, the People's Party intends to remove the flag from the defense of the language when they were responsible — although it would be better to say the irresponsible — guilty, to take forward measures such as the decree, a true legislative weapon against our language. Responsible too, as it has been said over and over again, for dwindling and scarce budgets, which obviously have an effect. That's why what happens, the language loses speakers and the generational transmission of our language perish. There are a lot of the data that alert this reality, and it is that if the population of Galicia quickly ages, aging — as shown by the latest data published by the National Institute of Statistics just fifteen days ago — is particularly accused between the people and the Gallagophalists, because young people are increasingly using Spanish as a normal language. In this way, between 2003 and 2013 the number of speakers under thirty years of age increased from 340,000 to 192,000. A drop of more than 44%. While that fall in other age ranges, for example, of sixty-five and at the age of sixty-five, only descended at 6.5%. And from fifty to sixty-five, the reduction was 9%. We consider it particularly relevant to bring these data into a proposal that could have a greater effect, precisely on those younger age groups, because they are, of course, important consumers of audiovisual products, consumers — in fact — very majority on digital platforms, such as those mentioned here. What is the question, in addition, of the potential transformer that would have for youth that our language was the usual language for the transmission of audiovisual content, both cultural and playful? This potential is indisputable, as it is indisputable, it turns out that the margin of improvement is enormous. As has been said here, the English language is the only official in the state that is not available on the digital content platforms, but there are more, if we talk — for example — about television programming in English, it turns out that this is practically testimonial according to the report mentioned here from the Bureau on the situation of the language in the children's television programming, it turns out that only 4.6% of the children's programming on working days is issued in German, a percentage falling to 2.7% on weekends. So, if there's no leave and no leave to work. And to say of bending, essential to bring foreign content into our language and that it only fades away, how public budgets that are allocated each year to this end by means of CRTVG. If we had 4.7 million euros in 2007 for the spanning of the Greek, we have only 1.4 million today, of which we spend only 30%. Then you don't have to be surprised there's no folded content. A situation that we consider unacceptable, which has long since been denouncing from the Association of Dobraxian Professionals in Galicia and which requires a total change of attitude on the part of this government. And it's just that not investing in doubling, too, supposes to underestimate also a first-order standardizing tool, as can be — and should be — the films, series or other cultural entertainment programs that consume youth. It was not, of course, an extraordinary request that was part of this battered and forgotten document as was the 2004 Standardization Plan, and it is entirely in line with what is done in other territories. That's why, as I said, from En Marea we will vote yes, and we hope that this proposal can count on the consensus of the whole House; it would be a very good news for the language and it would really be to bet on moving forward in the normalization of it. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u172	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. There are two ways of dealing with it: from reality, seeing the clear, valuing the positive things and putting the gesture into what can be improved, or from absolute negativity, closing the windows to everything that can be positive. Well, this is the attitude that seems to have the opposition gentlemen, the opposition ladies and gentlemen. Oh, God, Galicia is not like that, eh! Galicia faces reality and looks forward. Look, in view of the catastrophic version on the health of the Galician that has become manifest here, I'm just going to collect data, and they're not going to be from the People's Party, no, they're going to be from the Royal Galician Academy, which says textually: "The language has an unquestionable vitality, with 1.3 million speakers.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And the INE data — which seems to have been looked at by Mrs Chao as she was interested in — say that the Greek can be used by 89% of the population of Greece against 85% of Catalan and 55% of the Basque Country. That is, the English language is used, it can be used, by more people in Galicia than Catalan, and much more — almost twice — than Basque people can use the Basque country. You're right, Mrs. Rodil, when you say that this is a minimum proposal, because if we were to pay attention to you, with those wonderful plans that I know they're putting in those autonomous communities, the data for the Greek would be much worse. Do you see — Mrs Rodil, Mrs Burgo, Mrs Chao — economic support for multinationals or defence, promotion and support for the Italian and German audiovisual industry? Those are the options. [[Murmurs.]] Ours is clear: support for the Italian audiovisual and, to be, in Greek. [[Applause]] An audiovisual, the Greek, which has 2,500 direct jobs; therefore, it dynamizes our economy but at the same time dynamizes our language, our culture and our country. A sector that has as a Galician dish and as a language, in a good part of the cases, the Greek. And it's a great instrument that we have here, which we already have, and of what we can do to advance in the marking in the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization and also in the Law 9/2011, of the public media of audiovisual communication. [[Murmurs.]] That's our bet, and don't fill the arks of American multinationals. If you want that, there you are, the results have already been seen and you see where you are opting for these policies. I don't think I have to talk to them about the health of the cinema. You know that. In the posters around the world there are Welsh films, original films in English, that's our bet and that's the support of Joina. And from the People's Group, we want the Union to support our sector and support the film industry in English. Of all the tips that Junta has for cinema, they're always scored with higher scores — that's redundancy — and if they're given more intensity of help and more total amount if the films are in English. And this has already had its fruits in 2016, of 17 films that were subsidised, 9 in original English version; in 2017, of 12 subsidised films, 5 in original English version. That's in addition to all those series, all those documentary programs and all those cultural programs that subsidize Galician Union. [[Murmurs.]] A sector, the Italian cinema, which is present at all festivals, which wins awards all over the world and what we want to continue to support. And of the importance that this film has, there's nothing more to see than the 2018 Films from Galicia catalogue, which Agadic did, and what we're told is there are 43 new films and television works that we're exporting to the whole world. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Support for what Igape does and which, together with all the help it has from Galician cinema from the Galician Union, makes our community among the first to support this sector. That's in addition to what Galician Television is doing — which was mentioned here — seven times more investment in production than for the purchase of audiovisuals of foreign production. Seven more times for itself, isn't that support for the Greek? Do you think that's not support for the Greek? We think so. Look, the Welshman is studying in forty universities all over the world. English is studying in schools in Europe and schools in America. The Englishman is studying in all the centers of the city. Those are our outbreaks of radiation, those are the true promoters of Welsh. And the cinema has to help us, we have to use it, we have it here!, we have a pioneer sector, we have to help it use our language and through our language, in the original Greek version, it reaches all over the world. Reach out to those talkers out of Galicia who are increasingly interested in Greek, and serve here too. Yes sir, stop them from here! For the boys and the elders. By the way, you want — and us too — to be more and more used by young people in English, and to use it in every aspect of their lives. Well, Junta will bring the 2018-2022 Youth Plan here in the near future, we hope to have your support. Since they don't seem to be interested in audiovisual, see if they're interested in other measures that can help make it more and more used, more employed, and, if it fits, even more known. [[Murmurs.]] Although we have already said — and I insist —... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u173	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u174	...which is the most known of all autonomous communities with their own language.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u175	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u176	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u177	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u178	Thank you, President. And thanks also to the Socialist Party and the Marea Group for their support. I will literally read what the initiative is about, because I think Mrs Arias didn't even read the proposal, the resolution: "Parliament urges the Galician Union to take the necessary measures to ensure a wide supply of subtitles in the Greek language to which individuals, entities or cinemas can be accessed.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Point 2: "Go to the main channels and suppliers, especially Netflix and Mosvistar+, to incorporate into their offer the original version subtitled in English.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And this lady gets rid of the sleeve that I'm coming here to inflate private companies of public money. [[Applause]] I really... said Our Compañera Noa Presas — and I'm going to reproduce it because you're absolutely right in the world — "it's impossible to do anything with you." It's impossible! I don't know if it's a sectarianism that blinds them to the point of entering a contradiction even with their own party — and now I'll explain why — or if they're installed in a parallel world, in a world of pirouette and unicorn, which is not wanting to see reality. I'm accused of being a catastrophist, me, the Council of Culture, the Academy, the book sector, the audiovisual sector, which has been cutting and cutting budgets since they entered the door in 2009. And it doesn't even get red up here, Mrs. Arias. [[Applause]] Do you know how many funds go to Galician Union in 2018 for audiovisual production in Welsh? 148,000 euros. [[Applause]] Do you know how much it is for the Galician Union to promote foreign groups that have a lot of institutional support there in their countries? 3 million euros a finger, and we're still waiting for the requested documentation to be sent to us. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You are against the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization and repeatedly, since 2009 -- we have seen you denounce, too -- you have decided not to stand by him, to turn your back directly and to go against what you have at your disposal. I'm going to read what the General Language Standardization Plan sets out, because it seems that Mrs Arias didn't read it either. We are in area 2, cultural industries, measures 3.2.1: "Promoting the bending to Greek at least 10 annual films of those with higher commercial expectations. Promote cineforums in Welsh in educational centers. Develop catalogues of audiovisual content and products that can be made available in the English language". What shall we bring? A measure of minimums, of minimums, of minimums, of trying to open a more or less new space in which is the linguistic policy of normalization of the Government of Galician Union. And I say that you, apart from the cutre, really, that is the answer that has just been given here, there was no single argument, no single reason -- no politics, no linguistics, no kind of thing -- to say why Greek has to remain the only official language in the territory of the Spanish State to which you can't access on digital platforms. Not a single argument! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But that absolute sectarianism—because this is all because the BNG brings it, or the Socialist Party at its moment—makes us into a contradiction with yourself. I'm going to read this general plan to normalize Welsh between youth, we've been waiting for him since February 2016, it's good to hear you say that he's coming to this House within a month. And I'm going to put to you the measures that put this in — they have the stamp of Galician Union, cultural industries, products, non-activity — it says, "Setting up the necessary agreements to have a sufficient and competitive offer of cultural and audiovisual products in translated English. Pay attention to products of great international success. Establish agreements with local television and radio channels to increase the use of Welsh in youth programs."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u179	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u180	Wet paper, absolutely!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u181	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u182	Wet paper and pure sectarianism!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u183	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u184	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u185	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u186	It's your legal obligation. [[Applause]] We see...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u188	We see why they want to take us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u189	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u190	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-22-DSPG072.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Before we suspend the meeting until 10 a.m., the Presidency would like to thank all the groups for the ease they have given us to be able to compose an agenda that would allow us today to fire our partner. Thank you very much. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
