ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u1	Good morning. Let us resume the session with the fifth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for oral reply by the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Greek Government regarding the impulse before the central government of an agenda for Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u2	We started with the question of Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Modelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u3	Good morning. Mr. Feijóo, let me sum up in three headlines some of his latest achievements: "The AP-9 beaches will rise twice as much as in Spain and cross it will cost 23 euros", "Fif hundred Galician companies already manufacture in Portugal", "The Atlantic corridor will connect with Aragon and Navarra after the door to Galicia"; that is, the Atlantic corridor will pass through Madrid, through Zaragoza, but it will not pass through Vigo or through Coruña; all very logical and all very Atlantic, yes sir! [[Applause]] And it is so notorious that the irrelevance to which it leads us that, after its Madrid minitour, it has presented us as a great success tax rebates for Xacobeo, which have existed since 1993. The truth is, you're a phenomenon. But, in case this was a bit of a joke, it turns out that yesterday his Minister of Development gave him green light so that he would rise, even more, to the shores of the Greeks and the Greeks. It would seem like a joke from Gila if it wasn't because that climb of the fees, those AP-9 fees, I'm a scam that every day bears twenty thousand users in a country where we have the second lowest wages from all over the state. Mr. Feijóo, the BNG has been proposing for months to push a Welsh agenda, but he has none. And, given all that's going on, because we can only come to a conclusion: you don't have a Greek agenda, you have an agenda against Galicia, against the Greeks and the Greeks, an agenda that tells you the People's Party of Madrid and that you run at the foot of the letter. [[Applause]] Do you want to liquidate this country? I hope not, Mr. Feijó. And that's why I ask you not to allow the state to continue to take the hair of the Greeks and the Greeks and to push a country agenda. A Greek agenda in which, first of all, you must have a new model of funding that guarantees us fair and sufficient funding for our public services. Secondly, as far as dependence is concerned, he claims to Mr. Montoro the EUR 150 million he owes us, because there are nearly 13,000 dependents who are entitled to help that they are not receiving. Thirdly, the modernization to activate the transfer of AP-9, because what no one understands is that Rajoy has 4 billion euros to rescue the Madrid and zero radials to rescue us the Welsh and Welsh from the AP-9 beaches, an AP-9 that is requetemortized. And, finally, Mr. Feijóo, must also be included in that agenda the modernization of the railway. Because, look, at this rate, I think the AVE will arrive first to the Moon that Galicia... yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] And we don't have, outside of what The Vigo-Couruña, a modern train, we have a 19th century train. Look, we don't have AVEs or neighborhoods and, for the most part, we don't have a freight train. We, Mr. Feijóo, what we say to you is that you are already well, that you must react and set up a country agenda, which means to start defending Galician interests and stop acting like Rajoy's subordinate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Pontón, we are wrong if you are the only one interested in it is the headlines or the scant applause of your little parliamentary group. It's my country, and that's why I'm going to keep working. Ask me if I'm planning to promote a Greek agenda of the politics we work in. Of course, Your Honor! My agenda is to try to meet the needs of the Greeks. Another thing is if I'm wondering if I'm going to push BNG's Greek schedule. If you ask me that, Your Honor, I must say no. Not because, when I have to choose between the Greek BNG agenda and the German majority agenda, you will understand that the Greeks would never forgive me for pushing the Greek agenda that has less support throughout Galicia. You will understand that this is not government; on the contrary, this is to do the opposite of what Galicia is interested in. That's why you probably get some applause from the meetings of your little parliamentary group. He speaks of own electric tariffs, he speaks of a financing system where Galicia loses at least EUR 1 billion — but we must copy the Basques — he speaks of why not the independence of Galicia — as the illustrious political admired by the Greek nationalism Mr Puigdemont must be copied. You're talking, in short, about what you are now, BNG has changed its mind and wants the transfer of motorways. You voted not in 2007, but now you're changing your mind. Look, Your Honor, I'm sure you applaud her because her schedule is the simplest in the world, the one always: you must always look for an enemy and blame him for all the evil, and that's it! That's the BNG schedule. And, from what I see, they not only correct but sink into it. Your Honor, you say: headlines. The beaches went up, but it doesn't explain who went up the beaches. The toll was frozen in 2016, it was frozen in 2017. The toll is now rising, because it has to be raised according to the IPC, but it now rises the toll mainly because there have been infrastructures that the Socialist Government — from what you were partners — decided to finance it with the toll of the Greeks. That doesn't explain. You say the Atlantic corridor turns out it will now pass through other autonomous communities. But you do not say that the fact that the Atlantic corridor was not included ab initio with the ports of the Coruña and Vigo had been the result of an agreement by the Socialist Party — you supported that government — in relation to and with the agreement in Brussels. You don't say that we're now going to rectify that agreement that broke Galicia's interests. That doesn't say. You say, "What things do we get?" that if Jacob has always had tax benefits. Jacob never had tax benefits for three years. But it doesn't matter to you, as they left a Xacobeo who hadn't even prepared the first act, just because they didn't believe him or simply because the BNG advisor who had the powers of Xacobeo didn't speak to the president of the Bipartite Board. Tell you what you want. Tell you that you're going to climb the beaches now. No, Your Honor, what we agreed yesterday is to return fairness to the beaches in Galicia and that the people of Roundola-Vigo-Vigo-Redondela don't pay a fee that was the most expensive of the Atlantic highway. That's the big difference between you and us. So, Your Honor, when you speak of the highway to these boys — which, by the way, I greet — of a school in the Coruña, you don't tell them that we saved 400 million euros that we stopped paying peas with Galicia budget to a state highway...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u7	...that you applauded with both hands. They paid the fees to a state highway and even above I was told to stand up for Galicia's interests. Look, Your Honor, stop seeking the scarce applause of yours and get to work for the country. I think it's good for you to work for the country. Ideology can never be above the country's interests. So, Mrs. Pontón, you leave the headlines and start working for the country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u9	Well, Mr Feijóo, we actually started wrong. And we're starting wrong because you're still making opposition from the opposition. I wish it had been as good as defending Galician interests as opposed to BNG, it would be a great news for this country. [[Applause]] And look, I think only someone who's in Babia can say that yesterday we didn't remember a new rise in the fees for this country. What needs to be clarified is whether that new one comes up and proposed to his advisor or whether it was an imposition of the Ministry. Because, of course, there are alternatives to raising the toll to the Greeks and to the Greeks. There's a first alternative that means that for once they think about Galicia and not about the benefits of Audasa, because if last year you had 46 million euros of benefit, of course there's margin to lower the rates in our country. And what are you defending: the interest of the Greeks and the Greeks or that Audasa still has multimillionaire benefits? Of course, Mr. Feijóo, which side are you on. And you could also take advantage and tell your boss, Mr. Rajoy, that if you have resources, which we're going to pay among all of you, to rescue Madrid's radials, you might well be on the list of highways that have to rescue AP-9, because that would mean raising a load, a genuine legalized scam, to the Greeks and to the Greeks. The problem, Mr. Feijóo, is that you can't defend him, because that's not part of the agenda that's marking his party from Madrid and that's making the Greeks and the Greeks treat us as second-guest citizens. Because here, while the others have been enjoying the AVE for decades, the only thing we've got is a train that in some parts of our territory falls to pieces and is dismantling. Tell us, Mr Feijóo, why the Ministry has been investing in FEVE in Cantabria and Asturias and Galicia, what it's doing is dismantling the service, why the rest of us have had AVE for decades and we've been waiting here. Of course, this is a coat of hair, and that's what you should worry about as president of this country. And look, a repeated lie a thousand times remains a lie. And I want to remind you that it was the People's Party in Brussels, with great heads, who voted against Vigo's entry into the first division of European ports, while the BNG was in Brussels defending Vigo's entry there. [[Applause]] And now what we have, as the lead of our great achievements, Mr. Feijóo, is that, while we are told that Galicia has to be excluded from the Atlantic corridor, it turns out that the People's Party Minister in Madrid says it was a historic injustice that Zaragoza and Pamplona had not been part of that corridor. The problem, Mr. Feijóo, is that you are not defending the interests of this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u11	...is acting like Mr. Rajoy's subordinate, and so he goes, losing and losing opportunities. He reacts, because the Greeks and the Greeks deserve a president who defends us. I remind you that's why he's paid for the Galicians and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u13	Your Honor, the story, however much you speak, will not change. You voted in favour of paying all the Greeks to Audasa, without limit of traffic, for the lifting of Rande and Barcala's toll. You voted in favour, I voted against. That is the big difference between a nationalism of the mouth and a commitment to the effective, real and pragmatic country. You were part of the alliance of a government that did works on the freeway of the Atlantic in exchange for increasing the fees, and I am part of a government that opposes us to follow the fees by doing the works of the freeway of the Atlantic and which are financed by state assumptions. That's the story. The story, Your Honor, is that this government has managed that Galicia saves 400 million euros of autonomous budget to fund the fees of a state highway, which you were spending on an average of 7 million euros each year to finance a fee of a state highway. Yes, you, who were part of the bipartisan government, who signed that agreement until 2048. Mrs Pontón, your vote against the transfer of the motorway is recorded in the Journal of Sessions. If you want to compare state infrastructures and investments and you're very happy because in Cantabria and Asturias if you make a lot of investments on the railway, why don't you talk to the presidents of Cantabria and Asturias? [[Murmurs.]] And ask him whether he prefers railway investments in Galicia or what they do in those autonomous communities. Mrs. Pontón, since you're not around, you don't know what everyone else thinks. You think Galicia is a closed room where you can't go in or out. As you're not in Europe either, you don't even know it was a People's Party government that made Vigo connect to the rest of the trans-European rail network. He doesn't care. He doesn't care. [[Applause]] As a matter of fact, Your Honor, you don't care about the agreements we made at our last meeting with three ministers in Madrid. How much better it is for the Lourizan Research Center to be the national research center of the brown! How much better it is for you to open a national reference centre in Santiago for disability! How much better it is for the spas to have more squares in Imserso this winter, and we've been increasing them in recent years. How much better it is for you to publish a decree to specify the origin of milk in each territory of Spain! How much better it is for us to keep working on getting the biggest contract of frigates never closed in Galicia! Let's see if we can do it, Mrs. Pontón; I'm not telling you that we have achieved it, I tell you that as President of the Board that is my commitment to the shipyards of Fene and Ferrol. [[Applause]] What more does it give you, Your Honor, if you live at another time, if you live anything else and nothing less, surprisingly, that what you came here to defend this week, in the last proposal of the BNG, no doubt very intelligent, is to break the single box of Social Security and that Galicia pays its pensions and that Galicia is independent for the purposes of Social Security, in the whole of Social Security of Spain. But, Mrs Pontón, do you really want to lead us to this parade of economic and financial nonsense in the Autonomous Community? Mrs. Pontón, you don't have your own schedule. You want the coupon system because the Basques have it, you want Catalan independence because Catalan secessionists already propose it. You have neither your own agenda nor your own nationalism. You guys have a cut-and-stick nationalism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u14	Finish, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u15	Don't doubt it, Mrs. Pontón: my level of exigencies with the Government of Madrid is twice as high as the requirement of the BNG and the PSOE with the Government of Zapatero. You have no doubt. To the facts I turn myself over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Council of D. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Government of Galicia in relation to the recent decisions of the central government that affect the finances of the autonomous communities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u17	Mr. Leicega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u18	Mr. Núñez Feijóo, two discretionary and unilateral decisions have taken place in the last few weeks of Mr. Rajoy's Government, which in our opinion represents a problem for Galicia and also means a rupture of institutional loyalty which is normal in a state like ours. And I'm not talking to you about the Atlantic freight corridor. I'm telling you, for example, that they have forgotten to extend the property tax, and that, if we continue without that extension, Galicia will lose 71 million euros that it has today included in its budget for 2018. The extension could have been made by decree, but Mr. Montoro just didn't. Today the wealth tax is not in force in Spain and therefore not in Galicia either. And on the other hand, as you know, the Ministry of Business has recalculated the deliveries to the account, i.e. the actual transfers of resources to the autonomous communities for this year 2018, which means EUR 321 million less than those reported by the Ministry of Business in July and which are therefore in the 2018 budgets; there are EUR 321 million left in these budgets. So, the whole revenue increase disappears, the whole budget margin in the 2018 budgets, which we approved just a month ago. Without realizing it, Mr Montoro has completely reformed his budgets and has devalued the role of Parliament. And, by the way, yesterday the Counsellor forgot to comment on these issues in his audience, it must be that they are not important. I don't understand, but it must be my intellectual papalism that prevents me from getting there. [[Applause]] In our opinion, this is a discretionary decision of Mr. Montoro, discretionary because he could have done something else, because he's not legally bound. The estate tax was extended last year by decree, this year it didn't just because it didn't want to. Delivery to account, the rise of deliveries to account depends solely on the economic cycle, does not depend on legal changes in the budget. So you could keep your deliveries to the account reported in July, and it's disloyal to report that change when the budgets of the autonomous communities are already approved. The Ministry does not act as a whim, the Ministry acts on a path. It's about conditioning the negotiation of self-financing, it's about maximizing the support to those budgets that Mr. Montoro has kept in the drawer, because his favorite partners of the PNV are not willing to support them right now. I understand what the Ministry does, what I don't understand is what you do. What I don't understand is the passivity and submission of the Galician Union to these phenomena that are now costing them — it is possible to solve it — EUR 400 million to the budgets of the Autonomous Community for 2018. I do not see you raise your voice, that in that interview with Mr Montoro this was a central matter to be dealt with, that at last causes the Minister of Fairy's head pain with these matters. And that passivity compromises our future position in negotiating autonomous financing, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, which is a central issue for the next decades, as the counselor said yesterday — and I agree — said. What are you going to do? Are you going to claim those 400 million? Are you going to declare yourself unsubmitted in some way? Will you adjust your expenses? Will you simply present an amendment to the 2018 budget in this House, as you did last year in a reverse situation? What do you intend to do from now on in this situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u19	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, at the meeting with Mr. Montoro we talked about a lot of things, one of them -- I was telling the spokesman of the BNG -- to make this year Jacob the first year, of all the celebrations, that we have three years of tax bonuses. We are undoubtedly talking about the most important contract that Fene-Ferrol can have in recent years, which are the frigates and would give employment and stability to that region over the next ten years. We're talking about autonomous funding, which is logical, calendar, periodicity, and we're talking about budgeting, Mr. Leicega. That's my responsibility and I think you share those responsibilities. I want to be reassured about those doubts you have raised. Some of them still surprise me, because you know that the approach you just made of heritage that is in the first course of Financial and Tributary Right already taught us. Your Honor, on the extension of deliveries to account, I want to tell you that tranquility must be the focus of this autonomous community, and that's why I move it to the spokesperson and his group. This is not the first time that, in the case of extended budgets, deliveries to the account are conditional on new budgets. It happened in 2017, as you will remember: the budget was approved in the middle of 2017 and we did not have the liquidations that are coming to deliver and consider deliveries to the account until after the budget was approved. That's the model we're going to follow in the year 2018: we're going into the new Budget Law to include the deliveries to the account. I want to tell you that, as long as the State Budget Act is not approved, we have the financial capacity to continue to implement the entire budget, we have the financial capacity to continue paying better than the vast majority of autonomous communities our attention to the suppliers, and of course, in the event that the Socialist Party returns again not to want the State budgets, even though you then make me responsible, which is surprising. I understand his uncertainties. What I can't accept, of course, is that you belong to a party that you want is that there are no state budgets. But finally, contradictions aside, in those who live on a constant basis, I want to tell you that there would always be the possibility of a real decree. And, of course, if there were no assumptions in 2018, you have no doubt that we would propose a royal decree to approve deliveries to account. About the heritage, I'm surprised, Mr. Leicega. You know that the heritage we're going to receive in 2018 is already earned, because the Greeks are going to have to pay the heritage tax of the year 2017. And, therefore, there is no danger for wealth tax in the current budget for the year 2018 of Galician Union. And you know that we have all year 2018 to re-extend the estate tax. Mr. Leicega, what happened to you in that explanation? In any case, seeing what socialists do in other autonomous communities, it is now again fashionable to "low taxes is left-handed." Look what your colleague did in Andalusia, look what your colleague just did in Extremeura, by the way, with the abstention of Podemos. [[Murmurs.]] So, Your Honor, I think we should talk about this and many other things, but what is clear is that the 70 million euros of wealth tax revenue in the 2018 budget of the Galician Union are shielded...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u22	... whether or not there is a Law of Budgets, whether or not there is an extension of the royal decree of wealth tax in Spain. Mr. Leicega, I hope to reassure you and I hope this explanation will reassure you. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u24	I think you're trying to bring this discussion into a different debate, which we've had a month ago, which is the debate of your tax policy, which I believe is a failure because you're making gifts but not pushing the reforms that Galicia needs. But today's debate is another type: the debate is whether its passivity in relation to these and other issues is strengthening and deteriorating our negotiating position and thus compromising the future, the quality and the sustainability of public services and, therefore, the well-being of the Greeks. Look at that. You, by renouncing the allowed deficit and pretending to close the 2017 fiscal consolidation budgets, are saying that you stopped spending about 250 million euros that you had the chance to spend. Presuming of the tax drop, they're saying they're up to the resources. When they do such inefficient management of finalist programs as the youth guarantee initiative or others, they're telling all other administrations, at last, that Galicia actually lives in a sea of abundance and that for some strange reason there are many Greeks who don't realize this but it's their blindness. The problem is not Mr. Feijóo's management. That's what they're telling the whole administrations, and the central government, too, the other autonomous communities: that Galicia has the resources it has today, particularly in connection with its project, Mr. Núñez Feijóo. And how are you going to claim in the negotiation of autonomous funding additional resources if you're telling them about your facts that today's resources are up to you? That strategy is compromising the resources of the future. When you're not willing to do anything to get Mr. Montoro to rectify against the reduction of deliveries to account or the failure to extend the estate tax, when he's not willing to do anything, what are you saying? When it comes to discrimination involving extraordinary funding mechanisms, what are you saying? When it allows the months to pass without a new system of self-financing that strengthens our financial sustainability, what are you saying? You know what it looks like? That you're declaring a truce, that instead of taking out the blue and white flag, you're taking out only the white flag. And this is a problem. The blue stripe has disappeared from its flag, Mr. Feijóo, and that is no longer a problem. And Galicia has got to be a problem for them to take us seriously. Within the law, with institutional loyalty, defending basic values such as equal treatment for all citizens, but we have to be a headache to be taken seriously. A truce to fight for the throne of a leader who's downstairs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u26	... instead of a hard fight for Galician interests. That's what it looks like, Mr. Feijóo. You have to convince us it's not like that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u27	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close the question, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, do you think it's a gift that 99.4% of the Greeks didn't pay a succession tax last year? Well, different ways of understanding tax policies between your group and ours. There are members of your group who are saying yes, that it is a gift. You mean, therefore, when you drop a succession tax in Andalusia, that's a gift? Ah!, didn't they drop the succession tax? Talk to each other and see if they agree. Extremadura has just lowered the tax of succession, with the abstention of Podemos. See if you're smart about all this change in tax and tax policy. I'm sure here the Tides of We can say something else. What's more, if, as far as I can see, here everyone can say what they want and then when they get out of here they say something different and in another chamber they vote other than what they say in this, and even above they don't even know what they vote for each camera, but at last... You talk about why we didn't increase the deficit and the tides of We can worry about them that we have a lot of debt. But does the left really have any alternative proposals to this sensible, budgetary, economic policy of the current Government of Galician Union? Say, why don't you spend more? And yesterday the economists of the Tide told us: you are very indebted. But do you really think the country will take them seriously? What do you want? May we continue to commit the Greeks to make the Government live better? Do you want the Greeks to continue paying more and more public debt and more public debt interests so that the Government can spend more or, on the contrary, what we are asked to do is to manage the money — which is not ours, that is from the Greeks — and make an autonomous community solvency for now and for the future? That's our proposal, Mr. Leicega. Galicia is the autonomous community where less public debt has increased since 2009. The Greeks gave us two consecutive absolute majority since 2009 -- in 2012 and 2016 -- for this economic policy, and we're going to follow. The debt that a Greek owes to the Autonomous Community is no less: it is EUR 4,000 per Greek, but it is EUR 6,000 less than the rest of the Spanish; a Catalan, on average, has EUR 10,300 over debt, EUR 6,000 more than a Greek; a Valencian, EUR 9,000 more than a Greek; a Balearic lord, almost EUR 8,000 twice as much as a Greek; and a lord of Castela-A Mancha, EUR 7,000 over debt, 2,000 more than a Greek. So, Your Honor, what are we accused of? To increase the debt?, to meet the deficit? We will continue to reduce the debt percentage on GDP, we will continue to meet the deficit to the zero deficit and we will balance Galician accounts, so that we will never again assume a government than when it took possession of its debt was greater than the average of the autonomous communities and even above we were left with a hidden debt of 2,000 million euros. You know, Your Honor, that in addition to paying the debt and paying the deficit, we have to do something else, which is to comply with the cost rule. If we did what you just proposed, which is to keep increasing the expenditure, we would be breaking the cost rule. It's not a Spanish regulation, it's a European regulation. I suppose you know this too. Therefore, Mr. Leicega, I cannot agree with your complaints. I agree with your restlessness about the deliveries to account, I've already answered to you what our position is, but with your reproach of our economic and budgetary policy, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u30	I can't accept your complaints that there is no state budget, because you don't want state budgets. No, no, they don't want to. And the question, Mr. Leicega — so between you and me — is: what does Galicia gain from the state's budget? Who wins the whole set of Spaniards that there's no state budget? And I would dare to add: what does the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party win by continuing to block the state's public accounts?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u32	Don't you get anything, Mr. Leicega? (Murmurs.) [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, the Socialist Party's proposal, live, is that we have an absolute majority. Your Honor, if the Spaniards had listened to you so clearly, we would have the same absolute majority as we have in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Board of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the temporal scope of cutting policies that cause collapse and saturation in the emergency services of the Greek hospitals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u34	Mr. Villares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u35	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, if you were to go to the public to be emergency-careful, you'd have to be sitting listening to other people whining, complaining about their illnesses, some unwary people of pain, you'd have to be watching your shirts come in and out, a bunch of kids maybe crying or running through the corridors. Do you know — and this is the first question — how long would you have to be in that situation to be treated in an emergency? I'll tell you, between six and eight hours. What didn't I know? No, I didn't know. How would you know what's going on in the public emergency department? For it's collapsed, and if it's collapsed, as the Greek health system is collapsed, by a flu, yes, but it's not by the influenza A or by the influenza B, it's by the influenza PP, which is a different disease that threatens the poor management of the Greek public system, but which, fortunately, is already developing good antibodies against it. It's your government that's collapsing not the emergencies but the public health system. In winter, you proved to be the worst possible manager of Galicia's public interests, starting with the wave of fires, ending with AP-9 and, of course, in the specific case it occupies us, being a very bad manager of public health in Galicia. The emergency situation is symptomatic of a malfunction of the entire Greek health system, which has as its main cause the cuts in public expenditure and staff. Since your rule, they have eliminated — they have not disappeared — 1,795 health-care facilities (1,154 in primary care and 641 in hospitals). They removed -- they didn't disappear, they eliminated -- 513 medical personnel squares, almost two doctors per municipality (392 in primary care and 121 in hospitals), in addition to 184 nursing centers, people who could be working today if you wanted. The People's Party is dismantling the primary care system, when it should be paying attention to 95% of the cases related to health care. When primary care is dismantled, the waiting lists for a simple consultation will be dissipated, not days, even weeks, and people, desperate, hurt, painful, will rush to put an end to this pain. It is an inevitable human decision to seek remedy for their pain, caused by an incomprehensible political decision: to cut people's health. PP priorities don't match people's priorities, and this is a reality that you can't manipulate, because people see with their own eyes and feel with their own body when you have to go to Sergas. That's why you have solved patient associations, professional unions, citizen platforms, even service headsets. And that's why days like today there will be concentrations in defense of public health, to which In Marea, of course, will come, and will come just as many people who voted for them and are disappointed with you. Why? Because they take our health, Mr. Feijóo. In December, you apologized for the collapse of the emergencies. Now, besides apologizing, maybe I could do something. What are you going to do to prevent emergency saturation? If you don't see the patients in the corridors, if you don't listen to the complaints of the people you're waiting for, maybe you're blind and deaf; in that case, make him look. Please ask the specialist and, if it takes a long time to give him an appointment, go to the emergency room, that there are things they can't wait for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u36	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. You must recognize, Your Honor, that every day overcomes you, especially in sympathy; what happens is that you must test more to have a little grace, Mr. Villares. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] But really, I thought this question would use it to apologize for the nonsense you said last about the Navy hospital, but you continue. It continues to thicken the historical moments of the Journal of Sessions every time the current spokesperson for the Tides of We can talk about public health, or from the absolute ignorance—option 1—or from the absolute manipulation and demagogy—option 2—; I don't know exactly which one to take, but either one would be correct. Look, I can't say what I want, firstly because it goes against my conscience; secondly, because it goes against my own biography; and, thirdly, because I represent the Greeks in the Government. And that's why I'm going to try to explain what we did. Like the rest of the health services of the autonomous communities, if you had taken the hemerotheca, you would conclude that the Basques, the Andalusians, the Catalans, the Mallorquins, the Madrids, the Navarres, all of them want to dismantle the public health system, all of them. Everyone wants to dismantle the public health system, even where you cogobernan. But it doesn't matter. Look, the first thing we did was to draw attention to the citizens who are at risk of being vaccinated. And we managed to get almost 57% of the 65-year-olds to take and put on the flu vaccine. We invested two million euros in this vaccine. The second thing we did was, of course, to increase outpatient activity, to the continuing care points and health centres. We increased attention by 30% of the average daily, because in 2017 the average was 4,200 emergencies in all CAPs and from December 25 to January 17 this year 2018 they rose to 5,333, 30% more. By the way, in 93% of all these emergencies patients returned home, only 7% entered. The third thing we did was, of course, hiring personnel. In the face of all the nonsense you say about staff, look, only in these twenty-three days do we hire 3,141 people. Only in twenty-three days: 336 doctors, 2,435 nursing staff and rest of health personnel and 470 non-health personnel. The room we made was to enable beds, because we have beds and enable them; in total, 415 more beds for twenty-three days: 35 beds in Coruña, 42 in Santiago, 38 in Ferrol, in Verín-O Barco-Ourense 135, 20 in Pontevedra and O Salnes, 145 in Vigo. Your Honor, this is what we did. But do you think we want to dismantle emergencies when what we love and what we're doing is to increase emergency services? In the Coruña we increased it by three; in the Salnès we increased it by three; in Vigo we doubled the Emergency Service of the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, added to the Hospital General-Cías anterior and the Hospital do Mexoeiro; we are, within the expansion projects in Montecelo and Ferrol, expanding the emergencies; and in Barbanza, expanding the emergencies. So, exactly, what are we accused of? Do we continue to do new hospitals?, continue to expand hospitals?, continue to do health centers?, continue to buy technology? Tomorrow, at the board of directors, we're going to make a decision: the health centers that we're going to do in this legislation until 2020. It's twenty health centers, twenty health centers. What do you think, Mr. Villares? One more health center in the Coruña, one more health center in Vigo, one more integral health center in Lugo, one more health center in Moaña, one health center in Cangas, one health center in the Road, one health center in the Milladoiro; so up to twenty.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u39	Exactly, what are we dismantling? Do you know what we're dismantling, Your Honor? Demagoxy and manipulation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u41	Mr. Feijóo, you now recognize that in recent days you are hiring staff and opening beds is an express recognition of the failure of your health policy so far. Of course! [[Applause]] But all right, some recognition from time to time comes very well. However, the collapse of emergencies is not the result of an immediate lack of emergency personnel, it is the result of a lack of sufficient personal and material resources in the entire health system, which is what causes people, in the face of a delay that they can no longer endure the pain they suffer in their own meats, to go to the emergency service to see if they remedy it. This is the problem, this is the drama people have when they face the health system and they don't see their demand accepted in the primary care system, which has to go to the emergency room for this. And besides, you have to go, and the data is there and they're temuth, despite the fact that you're assuming your means. It turns out that, in the view of this great manager who is Feijóo, a reduction in real health spending since you rule by 18.3% are no cuts, they're not cuts in either personal or material media. But let's go to the concrete, which is what everyone understands: beds and doctors. After the emergency procedure, this lack of health care personnel — we remember: 513 doctors and doctors less and 134 nursing facilities less and fewer beds — prevents patients from entering correctly, who have hours or days left in love. It's information these days. Last day in Santiago, 30 patients waiting to be hospitalized, filled in the corridors, for lack of places to be hospitalized; in the Mexeiro, Vigo, 22 people, who finally brought them to you to reason and open all the resources existing in the Mexeiro; in Ourense, the workers and the workers closed in the hospital itself — which will not be of any taste — to demand more means and more personnel to meet the needs of the hospital itself; and so on throughout Galicia. Because you say there are enough resources, but it must be a new mode of admission that the counselor invented here: the bedless admission, invented by this counselor, this one who said that beds were important in hotels but not hospitals. Because since you govern — and are official data from the Galego Institute of Statistics; see if you like — Galicia has gone from 10,581 beds to 9,758. There is an evolution, which is quite evident, of the beds in the Greek public system, which can be seen by anyone approaching public health. But, of course, that's why we need to get close to public health. While all this happens, entire plants of hospitals remain closed, qualified personnel remain in their homes when they could be working. It's not that they precarious their working conditions, which is what you just demonstrated through that display of figures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u43	...but they're endangering our health. You cheat on the entire citizen who voted for it. People feel cheated by a People's Party, because there were people who voted for them, and you're not even able to guarantee them health care in a reasonable time. What kind of ruler are you? Do as in December: apologize. But besides apologizing on this occasion, he has more hospital beds and he has more means to have an effective public administration, an effective health administration, and to meet and guarantee a fundamental right to people like health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u44	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Hospital Management Manual, which you should consult from time to time or at least find out that it exists. There are some basic principles that have just been broken by their improvisation in hospital management. Mr. Villares, do you have any experience in the country's public health? Do you know anything about this? You should at least say that the same thing that he does to the vaccination papers in Europe doesn't do to the public health papers in Galicia Don't take that argument, Mr. Villares, because it's wrong. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Villares, if you knew that the major outpatient surgery is already superior to the scheduled surgery, you wouldn't talk this way, but you probably don't know what the major outpatient surgery is or what the scheduled surgery is. But you have the opportunity to learn for the next session. Look, the average wait in Galicia when we arrived was 67 days, in June it was 62; we dropped 7.3%. In priority 1, for urgent pathologies, when we arrived it was 38 days and now it's 15, we dropped by 60%. In this public health that you constantly despise, we're doing 19,000 surgical interventions more every year and nothing more and nothing less than 400,000 consultations more every year. And you're still despising her. I see you haven't read the letter that doctors today publish in defense of the public health of the Coruña hospital and ask you to stop doing demagogy already, that we're in front of one of the best health and one of the best hospitals in Spain. You read what the professionals think, so you'll have some information about it. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, you don't even know that your country, which is mine, is the fourth smallest health service waiting half to operate in Spain. He doesn't even celebrate it. He thinks that's a negative data. They're not our data, they're data from the Ministry of Health. Madrid, Basque Country, Asturias and us. That's the head of the decrease in the waiting list in recent years. And in consultation, a Welshman waits for twenty days less than half a Spaniard, in hospital consultation, and in surgical intervention forty-two days less waiting than the average of the rest of the Spaniards. That doesn't matter to you! We're investing 700 million euros in hospitals, we're expanding all the emergency services of the Greek hospitals. What's wrong with punctuality in the Greek hospitals? Yes, of course, like the rest of the Spanish hospitals and the rest of Western Europe. I don't know if you found out about what happened yesterday with a boy in Balearics, who called 112 and they didn't take it, saying they thought it was a joke. Imagine this happening in Galicia. What's wrong? In Balearics, do you preside over Parliament and do not dismantle public health? As you preside over Parliament in Balearics, when a boy calls and falls automatically on a street because in 112 he's being joked, I'm not blaming Balearic public health; on the contrary; I'm saying that one cannot manipulate and demagogy against the public health systems of the country. I'm saying that, Your Honor. [[Applause]] But the truth is, they just came out, for example, transplant data. Galicia, among the four autonomous communities with major transplants in Spain; the Coruña hospital, the fourth most important hospital transplants in Spain; one transplant is made every day and a half; in Galicia we are making almost one transplant every day. You brought this House the shame that we'd diminished and denied the treatment of hepatitis C. Do you know how many liver transplants we've done? 105 liver transplants. [[Murmurs.]] The slander is capable of apologizing, but justice is capable of acquitting. That's the big difference between those we believe in justice and those who don't. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u47	Mr. Villares, if you say you don't take care of people who go to the hospitals, it's an insult to the truth, but it's also an insult to all the professionals in public health. You can't accuse this government that there are a lot of people in the flu and in time tell them not to get vaccinated. Look, don't talk to me more about clippings. [[Murmurs.]] The biggest cuts that his party has posed are saying "no" to vaccines; that's the biggest cut and nonsense that global public health is willing to listen to a political party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u48	Thank you, President. We continue with the development of the plenary, with the non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eleven other Members, on the actions of the Galician Union aimed at the construction of a health centre in the Santa Lucia market building, in the Falperra district, in the city of Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u49	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u50	Mr Trenor has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u51	Thank you very much, President. A greeting to the children of Puga Ramón, who are leaving and are from my city. Today, in addition, this morning's first initiative will also be on The Coruña. I'm glad Mr. Villares stays, because we're going to talk about health, and it's a good thing that's going to learn and also to see the needs we have in the Crown and that they're blocking systematically. [[Applause]] My first words I want them to be to greet and to thank the exemplary work of the neighbors of Falperra, a neighborhood of my city, who want nothing but what they already have: a health center, for optimal health care. You, gentlemen, are an example of civicism and genuine participation, a sincere participation that stems from the necessity of neighbors, not such participation that is protected by political parties, organized with signatories who are anointed with public money, with contracts, with adjudications, and now we know another way, which is the purchase of real estate to their followers. [[Murmurs.]] I understand that the things that affect the neighbors of the city make them so much grace, and I suppose the contracts with which the signatories earn themselves also make them so much grace. And the last news, which says...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u52	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, last Monday, November 20 you brought more than 3,200 signatures to this Parliament to ask the groups we are in this Parliament to urge the Marea Council to stop blocking the construction of a health centre in the Santa Lucia market building. You have given a letter to all groups in which you defend the need to have an adequate space to build the health centre in the current building of the market in Santa Lucia, because you consider it the most suitable location to respond to the needs of your neighborhood, and it is a space with easy access and with direct communication and no barriers from the outside of the building. They also denounced the attitude of the mayor of the Coruña to continue facing the neighbors, leaving the neighborhood and refusing the dialogue that he had shown to the neighbors and to the other administrations from the first moment. For all this, you have presented more than 3,200 companies that support the need to implement the reform of the current market in Santa Lucia immediately. And besides, you also ask for agreement and consensus. What's going on in the Coruña isn't the first time this House's been dealt with. There has already been a position of the Galician Parliament on the health centre in the district of Falperra. And what did the government of En Marea do? Displace the democratic mandate of the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen of Marea, you only defend democracy and the result of votes when you have a majority, when the votes are used to support what you do. What's going on in the Coruña... makes them a lot of fun. [[Murmurs.]] It is a great pleasure for them to despise the majority that have been achieved in this Parliament. Don't worry, we will also take note of the respect you have for this Parliament's agreements. What's happening in my city is an absurd thing that very few people understand: a local government that puts all possible obstacles in order for other administrations not to improve the lives of the citizens of that city. Just as it's infrastructure that improves access to the city, it's like plans and equipment to boost collective transport, it's like it's a health center or a program to help those affected by the challenges. You people of the Tide will always block it. Look, this is where we're talking about emergencies. The great work of improving the emergencies of the Coruña public hospital would not have been done if you had ruled in the Coruña six years ago. It was because you weren't in the county hall to be able to block that big investment. He was talking about absurdity, and the absurdity is that an administration wants to improve the lives of its neighbours and a mayor blocks that improvement. And besides, they're not able to explain why they don't want these improvements to be made. When millionaire projects from other administrations are blocked, thousands of people, thousands of neighbors are harmed, and one is unable to explain, the only logical explanation is that priority is being given to particular interests instead of those of the coruncass and coruncass. We used to think these interests were ideological; now we know, now we suspect, that they are business matters. And, look, the example of all this nonsense is what's happening in the center of St. Lucia. And let me give you a little review of what happened there. The need for improvement of the spaces in which primary health care is currently provided at the health centre of the street Federico Tapia has motivated a protocol of cooperation between the Galician Union and the Council of the Crown in 2014 to be formalized. In this protocol, the bases were established for the study of health uses in the market premises of Santa Lucía, which is of municipal ownership. The study concluded that this was the most appropriate location for its proximity to the current health center, for the availability of spaces in that enclosure, for the support that the neighbors had for that improvement and for the compatibility to maintain the jobs of the practitioners. And besides, you could rehabilitate a very degraded space and dynamize the heart of a neighborhood. Until then, everything is normal. There's a need to improve the health care of the neighbors and the administrations seem to want to fix it. But the problem arises when Julius Ferreiro starts from minute to minute one to cheat, lie, confuse and make absurd proposals for the sole purpose of blocking the construction of the health centre. From the very first moment -- and it's been three years now -- there's been a campaign of deception, of absurdity, of misinformation. First they said they kept the initial project while they were acting in the opposite direction. It was made public that they forced the concessionary company to do works that never took place. They cancelled the contest of ideas for reform. And they lied by saying that the Town Hall had already made the transfer of that space to Galician Union. They lied and they're still lying, because they haven't clarified that aspect yet. The second step of this misinformation campaign was to propose that the health centre rather than horizontal if done vertically. In an eight-storey building, they wanted to dedicate the last four floors to build a health center; 6 meters by 25 is the space that the Town Hall offered. Nonsense! Instead of improving health care, it was obviously going to be a lot worse. Then comes another occurrence: they propose a plot more than a mile away in another neighborhood, with a strong slope and which is also being used as green space. Obviously, the neighbors were against it; the Sergas were against it. And, in addition, Sergas has to remind the Council of Coruña that making this investment is not a whim of the administration, which is a necessity to improve the health benefits, the health services of citizens. But the last occurrence, the last act of this campaign of poisoning and misinformation carried out by the Town Hall of the Crown, took place a month ago. The mayor's chief of staff escorts the mayor to a meeting with the Health Adviser. At that meeting, the Town Hall undertakes to send a study urgently to make it viable that the uses of St. Lucia are compatible. We know absolutely nothing from this study, and the agreement is not right the next day. The mayor, in a media medium, said that the study — no one knows — says it can't be done there. And he invented another location. This time she says yes, she's the perfect one. They don't know the neighbors, we don't know the political parties, and they don't know the Health Administration either, which is the third and last occurrence of the Town Hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm talking about a campaign of misinformation and confusion because, after you've had your neighbors dizzy, after you've drowned the Health Administration too by studying the feasibility of your proposals, doing your studies as well as hiring your friends through technical assistance, and publishing them in the press, in your friendly press, to keep the farce, and then lying and giving them false hopes to the practitioners, after all this, In Marea bids a project to reform the building; bidding that was made by the back door, without any kind of dialogue and that prevents the construction of the health center...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u55	...of the market of Santa Lucia. You refused to receive the representatives of your neighbors because they don't like to listen to what they don't want to hear. You assume that you have citizen participation, but it's just a kick-off to do what you want and to have people who applaud you. From what citizen participatory process came the idea of this last proposal? What participative citizen proposal came out of building it vertically, or from taking it more than a mile away?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u57	Who did they consult with? Did you explain it to the neighbors? Did you explain it to the tasters? And by the end...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u59	...neighbors demand a change of attitude from the mayor, who listens to them and loyally cooperates with the Council of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u60	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u61	You may be palm trees and hostages of the Atlantic tide's aims or you may be on the side of the neighbors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u62	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u63	It's you who have to decide.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor. Intervention of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u65	Thank you, President. I recommend that you — since no one is listening to us — relax, Mr Trenor. You can see that you lose enough of that loss of municipal governments — only Ourense is left of the big cities — and they take the letter from their boss. They do well, it's probably what they have to do, but well, at last... it's not all right. For a moment I thought they were talking about you when I was talking about the friendly press, friends and all that stuff. [[Applause]] Well, Mr. Trenor, if we want to talk about the compromises of the Galician Council with the Council of the Crown, we could talk about what happens with the New Month school, what happens with the coastal facade, what happens with the intermodal station and the delays with which you have carried the project -- unfortunately now there seems to be agreement -- with the indifference that you show to the need for the metropolitan area, with the reduction of almost 30% of the budgets of the Galician Union dedicated to the city of Coruña in this 2018 exercise. However, Mr. Trenor, we are not here to transfer the debate that you are unable to do in the Town Hall of the Crown. Yesterday, Mr Fernández Prado, who is also a Member of the Council, moved in this House that the municipal elections could not be held here. Today you have made an overcrowded intervention, at the same time regrettable, because the precipitate of the municipal elections, which Mr Prado had not actually begun, had not actually begun. And you should start taking health matters seriously. I would ask you the same vehemence when we speak, for example, other paralysed centers, as it can be the center of the Age, which takes with land many years; or of many others of the different municipalities that rule parties of all colors. You've just moved a number of things here, and I'd like them to prepare a little more initiatives. Because, of course, the extension of the Coruña hospital or its emergencies does not depend on any municipal government, it did not depend at any time. You don't care who's ruling. It's the responsibility of the Health Council, who has the title. And there's, of course, a problem that we just moved here, about the lack of enough personnel in the emergency room in the Coruña hospital. You in the Coruña have kept a complete plant closed on Abente y Lago and another complete plant closed on the Materno for several years, while there is an obvious need for beds in the city, something that was objected to at all the collapses, and on the camels that accumulate in those wonderful corridors of its enlargement. But, speaking in particular of this issue of the health centre, we have already commented on in the Health Committee that, indeed, there is a obvious need for an improvement on the current centre, which remains small, which is in conditions which are no longer the right ones. And that is where we agreed, we talked about it in the Commission itself. However, spokesperson for the People's Party, you, who says you don't know what studies you don't know, I think what you don't have is any kind of communication with the Health Council. And it's a pity, because surely Mr. Almuña is still behind him and can explain the dialogue that's keeping Galician Union with the Town Hall. It is quite regrettable, Mr Trenor, that, when the dialogue is already quite advanced and surely in very little time if you will be able to announce some kind of measure to resolve these differences that existed between the Board and the Council, you will come to bring this matter here simply to try to crack some kind of vote for the municipalities. She could also make the candidate lady the initiative. They decided you did it. Well, whatever it is, but the reality is that you're the least interested in the health of the neighbors and the neighbors of the Crown; firstly, because they keep the cuts of professionals, because they have how they have the services, not only the emergencies, but -- I would remind you -- is also that elimination of a gynecologist in the centre of family orientation of Ventorrillo, the situation of the Ventorrillo health center, the allegations that this same group has made of how the professionals were in those health centers. Because it was the professionals themselves who came to these media, those who, on many occasions, received their grants. And now, however, they intend to use a theme, which obviously affects the health of a neighborhood, to try to scrape some votes and retrieve those municipalities that you have lost because of your mismanagement. The reality is, when the Galician Council and the Council are working, you — the People's Parliamentary Group — ignore that work. And they don't want to know anything because the only thing that matters is using the neighbor's rights to try to scratch some votes. You should ask your health adviser—because it is quite regrettable that the People's Party itself does not understand its own government—that is what you are negotiating with the Council of the Crown a solution. I'm not going into that ridiculous fight, which you have to give, if you want, to the municipal debates. And I want you to get to work and bring concrete proposals, because I haven't listened to a single proposal for your side, either in committee or in full; nothing more than the need to use a subject, because — I repeat — you are not interested in the health of your neighbours, which is the interest of your party in having some more vote in the next municipal elections. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u67	Good morning. And good morning to the neighbors who accompany us from the rostrum. I have to start by saying, Mr Trenor, Mr. People's Party Member, that I don't know if you're practicing to be a candidate in the municipal elections to the Town Hall of the Crown, but it's a bit confusing, it's a bit confusing. And I'm telling this because, of course, BNG surprises us where you've settled. We could say the one about "counsels seeing that I don't have." You come here doing an exercise of dialogue between administrations, of transparency, of listening to the neighbors, when this Chamber is a continuous witness that the People's Party, when we bring these kinds of questions, systematically stands against. They don't care about the signatures that endorse the proposals, they don't care about the needs of the actions that you don't take into account. So if this means they're going to change their position and that when there's a demand, as in this case, backed by neighbors and neighbors, by citizenship, by collectives, they're going to start to be permeable and that's going to be a weight element in meeting them, as welcome to that position. Of course, at the BNG we are surprised by the position of the People's Party, which has public health in a position of harassment and overthrow when it systematically votes against the initiatives we bring to this Parliament to proceed with the construction of promised, committed, necessary, demanding health centres, with unanimous plenary agreements, with signatures gathered, with collective demands. What you do is ignore those questions. And we are surprised when the Galician Union, which in the budgets for 2018 envisages a departure of just 8 million euros for the construction of the multiple health centres that are needed in the country and for its repair, because it had not included a match for the construction of the Santa Lucia health center. No, she didn't, no. No, of course, in a necessary amount. And it surprises us, because the BNG, who also cares about and deals with this issue, which has been our concern and concern for us for some time now, is presenting amendments to the June budgets in 2016, we present them in the 2017 budgets, we present them in the 2018 budgets. And the People's Party has consistently voted against, voted against these amendments forever. And I also ask them not to play, and that that request that you make and that you make to the government of the Town Hall of the Crown, that you do not deceive your neighbours, that you do not do it either, that you do not tell them that nothing happens by not going games in the budgets and that they then have a game of continence and that you can get rid of it. Of course, but that would apply to all questions with names and surnames that you put into budgets and then don't execute. Why don't you have that will in this case? Well, the truth is, you should explain it. Of course, we are faced with a question of lack of political will. It's evidence that if you get more reputable at the meeting, you get more content not to solve the problem that really solves it, for, while it makes noise and if it's in the newspapers, it doesn't wake up and it doesn't solve it. I, of course, ask that the neighbors and neighbors of the Falperra neighborhood — who have been demanding the need for a health center in the neighborhood — literally the Federico Tapias outpatient clinic literally falls into pieces and literally needs it to be solved — are not the pagans of this situation, who are not in the middle of a game of a crossfire, and who are not the ones who pay the consequences. I, of course, also miss that the People's Party does not have the same vehemence in defending the health needs of other neighbourhoods of the Coruña, as is the case with New Mesoiro. The BNG has on several occasions brought the initiative to respond to their needs and the People's Party voted against. It will be the same because the solution to the needs of the New Mesoiro neighborhood depends only on the Galician Union. And since they're only dependent on Galician Union, it doesn't kick the crossfire, it doesn't even stand in that fun game to blame others, and there the People's Party votes against it. And to finish, I remind you that the responsibilities and competences in health are unique and exclusively of the Galician Union, unique and exclusively of the Galician Union. And if there really is a council that doesn't cooperate, I insist, you have to collaborate. The responsibility lies with the Galician Union, with which, if there's a need and there's no such collaboration, give it an answer because I'm...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u69	...the only ones who have the competition. With which, the BNG will continue to support the development of a health center in the neighborhood because it is necessary to respond to health needs, but also for a question that is not smaller, which is dynamizing a neighborhood, dynamizing a trade, which is why the People's Party, of course, does not characterize itself, either by supporting or by betting on a model that dynamicizes cities and neighborhoods. Of course, it's not your bet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u71	I'm glad this is the case.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that I will be brief, Mr Trenor, because because of this talk so exacerbated that you did in the presentation of this initiative — and all the corrupts and all the corrupts are in the city — gives the impression that only you or only you represent the citizenship of the Coruña. Then you draw attention to this intervention of these characteristics. I also wanted to greet the neighbors of Falperra, of course, because we are actually attending a game I don't know whether to ping pong or to a permanent "pim, pam, pum" between the People's Party in the Coruña and the Health Council. Sometimes — as was said in some previous intervention — it is not known whether there is confusion or not between the interventions of the People's Party in the Coruña and, in this case, the Health Council — that is, we sometimes have this confusion in the city, and the municipal government — about the location, indeed, in the building of the Santa Lucía market, in the center of the city, of a new health centre that lives with the facilities of the market. We've had too many days, we've had too many weeks, I'd say that we've taken all this municipal mandate — and even the previous municipal mandate, precisely from the People's Party — without the City Councillory and the Government meeting the necessary agreement and giving a clear solution to the demands of the neighbors and traders in the Falperra neighborhood, as well as to all the users of the current health center of Federico Tapia, which, as it was said, falls to pieces. We attend every day to a partisan game, an absolutely partisan game, between the PP and the municipal government to see who comes out with theirs, when the needs, on the one hand, of economic revitalization of the market, but on the other hand, of better health care, are the only keys to be solved. That the need to update and, above all, to revitalize the market in Saint Lucia is absolutely undeniable. The health centre should, on the basis of technical criteria for accessibility and assistance, be located the criteria that determine precisely Sergas, in the place that is available that best serves the set of users of the current centre of Federico Tapia. If it can't be technically in the same market building, a plot would be assigned to the area of influence. Of course, not at the Bridge Pass, because it's an absolutely absurd situation, but no further adjustment is made to a suitable plot. As was also discussed on one occasion in these days, it seems that we should have in the Coruña technical reports from the architect of the market project, etc., to know the possibilities of compatibility or not of the health centre with the market and, precisely, to know what will be the technical and care decision by the Health Council. Or are you going to have to be Mrs. Mato who came to give the solution to the health adviser in electoral precaution? Because it looks like we're talking about, doesn't it? It was also recalled in an intervention — and the neighbors of Falperra know — that the People's Party in the 2018 budget project did not set up a euro for the health centre in Santa Lucia, not a euro! The Socialist Parliamentary Group has also tabled an amendment, which has been radically rejected by the People's Party and therefore has not entered the budgets, to bring forward this new health equipment in the Coruña. At the first hour, President Feijóo promised that tomorrow, at the Board of Trustees, twenty new health centres would be announced. Let us hope that this equipment is clearly defined in that Agreement of the Council. But, Mr Trenor, I think you should do some self-criticism — a bit of self-criticism never goes too far — because I would say that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party in the Coruña, with a municipal mandate — the previous ruling in the Union and being in the Central Government — if you do a story of the matters that are not going on in the Coruña precisely because of the incapacity or the institutional blockade that the People's Party is putting on the city, we could not finish. I read some of them: the situation of the arms factory, of which we will talk on one occasion; the subject I would say that almost impermissible of disloyalty with the city on the inner harbour facade; the situation of Alcoa, the possibilities for the future of Alcoa; the Burgo's laugh; the railway link of Punta Langosteira; the rail-bus, disassembled; the tram; the sports pods of Sardinia, Elvina and Agra 1 in a dire situation; the collapses of the CHUAC; and I can remember perfectly — because we can remember all the corruptes— as they really emptied the network of scientific museums, the network of civic centers and the network of libraries. Please, gentlemen of the People's Party on the Crown, make self-criticism of their ability to govern, of their ability to manage. This is the inheritance that the krunis and the krunis are receiving...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u75	...in ways of governing, or not governing, institutions by the People's Party as far as the city of Coruña is concerned. We abstain from this non-law proposal that they present because what we are all claiming in the Coruña, all the users of the health center of Federico Tapia and also the neighbors of Falperra, is that if we make an agreement once between the Health Council and the municipal government. And the neighbors of Falperra and the rest of the neighbors who use the health center claim it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Villoslada. Mr. Trenor López has the floor by the parliamentary group which is the author of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u77	Yes, Mr. Villoslada. I'm glad you announced you're going to abstain from this. The PSOE has been abstinent as far as the town of Coruña is concerned for many years. I won't be the one to say anything about the Socialist Party of the Crown. You say so, you're the self-criticist, a self-criticist, I think it's quite realistic. And I'm glad that today you've made at least one secret of some of the issues that concern the corrupts. What gives me a little bit more sorrow is that you continue to abstain, continue to stand in favour or against, and follow you in that phase of equity, to support a government of the Tide and then, perhaps, on a day when one rises up a little, to make a little criticism. The reality is that the Tide government is there, and the Tide government blocks all these projects; projects that even some of them you have signed, projects that you have proposed and projects that you have agreed to and that are now reviewing maybe because they are quite afraid of these Tide projects. Similarly, you are afraid perhaps that Mr. Martínez will stop them, or that he will end this toy that you have in your hands, when they are unable to talk to the groups or to the comrades of other municipalities. But, look, what you guys did here today was a lack of respect for your neighbors. You implied that the neighbors were doing this collection of firms and that they had this because they were playing the game with the People's Party, that they were not worried about the neighbors, that they had no health needs, but that the only thing that moved them was getting the tide out, or driving Mr. Ferrier away. You're insulting and undermining the dignity of the neighbors of Falperra, who have collected 3,200 signatures. The worst of all of this is that the blockade and obstacles to other administrations, Mr. Villoslada, are not anecdotal. You made here a storyteller of issues that you have agreed and modified, and also of issues that are blocked by the municipal government. Look, while in Vigo and Santiago they have their access improved, and inaugurated just a few weeks ago, in the Coruña we still haven't even got the project of improving access to our city — blocked by the tide — yet. While in Santiago, Vigo and Ourense will start their intermodals this year, in Coruña we don't even have the project. We don't have it, and you know it. He should be a little more honored with the rest of the parliamentarians and the rest of the citizens, he should explain why the intermodal of the Crown is paralysed. You should remember here that last year it helped to write a project for 400,000 euros and that, no more getting the project, the tide threw it back. Made with your own proposals, made with your own proposals. But that doesn't matter to you, you won't come here to say anything against Ferrier, you won't say. Because you still think, if Ferrier goes down a bit and you get up a little, maybe, the role that you do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u79	...then he gets to do it Ferrier. It won't be like this, you're going to go half, at least, of the seats that you have now there. But not only that, not only that, it also happens with the plan of empty dwellings, blocked. There's it in Santiago, there's it in Ferrol, but there's no it in the Coruña because the Atlantic Tide and also the Block believe that caring for people affected by evictions is not a priority. It's more important to buy real estate to the tides. And there's also the metropolitan transport, which you've blocked. With which, Mr. Villoslada, when you talk about the metropolitan area, don't talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u81	...of the chiringuitos and of the studies of those who benefit from their affairs, but rather speak more about the services of those who can benefit from citizenship. All of this has consequences, of course, consequences. While in the rest of Galicia unemployment drops by 10%, in the Coruña we are at 6%, four points of difference. That's the cost of your support, the Socialist Party's support, the tide.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u82	Finish, please. It's out of time. The amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u83	Now, to finish, we're the only ones we do is bring to this House a complaint and a claim from the neighbors, neighbors you missed about it. O you with your conscience! Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and six other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia to carry out awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns on gender-based violence in rural areas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u85	This motion for a non-law was tabled by two amendments, the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u86	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u87	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. First of all, I want to greet those who accompany us today in the gallery, the presidents of the associations of rural women Agra and The Horreos, of Muros, as well as the president of Fademur-Galicia. Welcome and thank you for the data you have provided and that sustain much of this initiative. I wanted to begin by commenting on how in every society we find examples of customs often ancestral that, seen since now, with the change of social codes, of progress in rights and with social progress itself, we consider inappropriate, inappropriate. And we're even surprised that in a recent past they were clearly seen. In 1791, Olympia de Gouges published the Declaration of Women's and Citizens' Rights, in a clear response to the obvious contradiction that occurred after the triumph of the French Revolution in 1789, a revolution that based its justification on the universal idea of human equality — freedom, equality, fraternity — but which denied women's access, half of the population, to political rights, which actually meant denying their freedom and equality with respect to the rest of the individual. Olimpia's text was one of the first demonstrations for equality and would cost her life years later. And, in our time, we're still talking about gaining full equality, an equality that will hardly be conquered if there are many and many people who are unable to recognize such basic issues as gender violence. I don't doubt that, in view of this Olympia text, the strangeness of many men and women before the reason why this madness, of wanting to extend the scope of the woman out of the home, or of granting her the right to vote, to exercise politics, not to devote herself fully to her children, I repeat, to social strangers, must have been generalized and majority. And this is explained by context. Today, in this Parliament and in the street, we live another kind of strangeness, which leads most of the population to automatically assert that men and women are equal but, nevertheless, we live and live naturally anesthetized the existence of the wage gap, or the role of the woman as the primary caretaker of children and adults, or violence against men and women for a reason of gender. If in the French Revolution equality was only for one another and left women aside, today rights are also more for one another than for another. History is what it has: that it always becomes cyclical. We're a spectator of a context that continues to surpass us, and not act makes us complicit, so today's initiative. As Olimpia did in her day, we understand that the message to give us is, firstly, to clarify the terms, not leave room for doubt. We have to banish the customs learned from children, educate in equality, alert and punish those behaviors that go away from respect for women's rights and their equal treatment. Last year we saw the very revealing data that many and many of us were very concerned about, as one out of every four Thursday sees the gender violence normal in the couple. Male violence remains a first-order problem in Spain, but the perception of its gravity does not accompany it, at least not among many Thursdays. Ninety women died in fifteen years of gender violence, and since the perception of 20 percent of Thursday it has been considered normal and exaggerated that this is a cause for concern for the political class as well. These are the results of the 2017 barometer of the Purpose Project, developed by the Queen Sofia Center, about adolescence and youth. But also in November 2017, Fademur's association published a survey on the perception of Galician society about the reality of Greek rural women, especially about the incidence of gender-based violence in rural areas. And in the same way, we also found those revealing data that give us a touch of attention. One can be understood as worrying, especially as it involves planning campaigns, measures and actions to prevent gender-based violence. When they are consulted, almost half of the people answer incorrectly when asked what is gender-based violence. Only 55% is clear of the concept, considering it as that physical, sexual and psychological violence towards men and women exercised by their couples or ex-husbands. This lack of understanding of the concept means that something is going wrong in campaigns or information programs about violence, especially when it's not understood that men are also victims of violence and that this is not just a problem of women. About 20% of the women killed last year lived in rural areas, 61.81% of rural women who say that there is insufficient information in their midst to address the treatment of gender-based violence. Only four out of ten say they know some kind of campaign about gender-based violence. And considering all these data and many others that reflect both in this survey and in the Queen Sofia Center, in view of the significant percentages of people who continue to have wrong concepts about what is and is not gender violence, and in view of the importance of including the rural area, the Galician Socialist Group felt obliged to present this proposal today; an initiative that has no other purpose than to better channel the efforts and resources dedicated to the fight against gender violence. And I say "challenged" by issues such as what happened with the controversy generated this year before the 25N campaign, a campaign that the Government's own group has defended on several occasions but that the rapporteurs themselves who went to the Equality Commission — experts in journalism, linguists, philosophers and anthropologists — before the parliamentarians' question about their opinion about it, all — and it must be said, all of them — have viewed it as an absolute mistake in their approach, in the message and even in the fact of confusing it with the March 8 campaign, weakening, even more, the woman's image. We don't want to be more controversial about this, but we do want this kind of controversy to be avoided. The importance of messages, the influence of words, concepts and images must be borne in mind at every moment of government. To underestimate this is to underestimate the power of advertising and experts in communication and image, and the measurement of their decisions and intentions. That's why we urge that the basic criteria and concepts be reviewed which have to affect awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns on gender-based violence, and which also promote information-gathering tools, such as pre- and post-annual opinion polls, should be able to address them and focus them more effectively on citizenship. We need to listen to people, detect the deficiencies and cracks in the social understanding of inequality, and, depending on that information, carry out these campaigns that affect these aspects and thus achieve greater effectiveness of resources. And for this not to fall into wet paper it is necessary to enable a specific budget game for your annual development. It's about success, it's about time, not for a few, but for everyone. We have the ability, the opportunity and the privileged position to turn this situation around. And we have to have an impact on the dissemination of campaigns in rural areas, especially in smaller municipalities, because they have proven to be less effective. And let's also follow up on the results. If this year there are four women out of every ten who are aware of some campaign against violence, who for the year are more but never less. Let us not forget that these campaigns have to reach the youngest ones by promoting them among the various courses of teacher training, as well as in students, in educational centres, those focused on working to eradicate tolerance in the face of the different manifestations of gender violence by dismantling false concepts. The poll of Queen Sofia draws the fact that, when Thursdays refer to gender violence, they tend to refer to explicitly violent behavior. Aspects like watching the mobile, controlling the couple and jealousy don't include them inside the violence. And what's worse is, many of them emphasize the importance, because they say that this situation, according to their words, has always existed. This naturalization of control, which is normal because it is customary and the limitation of freedoms, is the one that must alert us enormously. We are aware that there is some kind of course and training workshops like this, but let's be realistic: young people receive information and a continuous bombardment of macho messages, without being often aware of the implicit content of these messages. And they hit television, Whatsapp, Twitter, Instagram. Can not open message And we, sadly, take the rhythm of turtles. To get to a one-hour workshop in a classroom at an educational center, we spent a process of months or years. We have to think a lot about this. The immediateness of the information on the one hand is not being countered at the same speed by the other. We're fighting a dart war with balloons as shields. Or we're strengthening the shields and techniques of approaching Thursdays, controlling the messages from the beginning and introducing the messages into their own communication channels, or we're not going to achieve this struggle, which is not local, has a global dimension that is difficult to cut off only from mini-curses or workshops within educational centers. For all this challenge that we have ahead of us and for taking steps in the right direction, we hope that all groups will consider this initiative that we present today and have good support for it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u89	Good morning. I would also like to thank, first of all, the organizations that accompany us today in the rostrum for their busy work every day of the year to often cover the shortcomings that the administration still has. With regard to the Socialist Party's initiative, regardless of the issue of nuances, we can say from the Galician Nationalist Block that we generally agree with its spirit and with many of the issues in which it concerns. For example, in the training of teachers a few months ago we adopted a non-law proposal in this House at the initiative of our group, or on the issue of budgets, because we have insisted enough on this, despite the little case and understanding that we have achieved on this side of the bench. I will no longer give today the budget execution data or the modification of negative credits — which have reduced the original credits, for example, of 2016, which is a closed exercise — because I have repeated it so many times that I am bored of myself listening to it. And we see there's no correction on the part of the People's Party. And here comes our first concern about this initiative: we hope that the People's Party will accept it but that it will do something, that it will come true. Because we are a bit bored and bored since the BNG to adopt general guidance initiatives to seek consensus with the People's Party and to absolutely disregard them. We therefore hope that this initiative will have another goal, both in its vote and that it will soon come to a practical execution. He spoke of the Socialist Party's last election campaign on 25 November, and I believe that everyone and everyone, although I will not focus very much on it, because it made clear to us that it is necessary not only to review who is addressed and how these campaigns are directed but also to review, in their elaboration, how they are crafted and whether they are done with criteria in which a previous diagnosis is established, a rigorous evaluation and whether they avoid such issues. Furthermore, more serious than the mistake for me is that today there has been no correction or correction of any kind, but that the Board and the General Secretariat of Equality have closed themselves, believing that by having absolute majority they are doing all right automatically. So we think that's not the line of work, that each of the euros that are dedicated to the public era to such a fundamental issue as this one should have even more follow-up than any other kind of advertising campaign and so on. Therefore, insist on previous field studies, objective studies, such as some of those mentioned, such as previous and subsequent surveys, will always be positive. To show, a button. Precisely, speaking of teacher training, I insisted on the example that there was through a program of the Crown Deputy to develop the program "Delete Control" in the study centers, which was done in 2016 and 2017 and is being developed also during this year. There was a previous work that allowed you to adapt and modulate the campaign, which allowed you to have a framework on which to design the workshop model, its evaluation, the manual of the socio-educational program, parallel activities, counselling via instant messaging, meetings with families, the participation of the educational community, and to improve for another year the goals and attempts to reach the campaign. Surely every year things are found to improve, but of course, a priori, the frame in which it was run is much more ambitious than it seems to be some of the Galician board programs. But when we talk specifically about the issue that brings us today, there is something that concerns us: that the amendment of the People's Party insists on deepening in the relationship with the neighbouring movement, in the line of collaboration with the Galician Union and others. And the first thing I want to say is that since the Nationalist Block Galego we consider this to be a fundamental foot, it's a fundamental leg of society. That kind of mechanism allows us to reach a wider audience, it allows us to do a job often, if that's planned well and so on. Now, let's disagree a little bit about how to "deepen", precisely this week, be the best word, even more so when we continue -- not only associations like Yes, There I am, from Lugo, but also political organizations -- waiting for some sort of clarification on the part of the Galician Union -- and I hope that the spokesperson of the People's Party can deny and clarify this issue -- about whether this announcement has just one euro of the Galician Union's public era. This announcement is from an excursion organized by the Mondoñedo Town Hall, which is not governed by socialist "papanatists" or by nationalist "radicalists" or those "Mareas de Podemos". [[Applause]] It organizes an excursion — which the tour is the main feature of the poster — and, if we go to the small letter, it includes a prevention talk on machist violence at the same time as a quiet dinner, cooked with potatoes, salad, homemade dessert, bread, wine and coffee, and a visit to a shopping center as well. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a role from the rostrum of speakers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u91	I hope that this will be financed, in any case, by the leisure of the council itself, and that, if there is a single euro of the Galician Administration of the General Secretariat of Equality, a correction is required. Because, of course, we understand that this is not the way to design campaigns, which is not the way to take away, besides, protagonistism, sensitivity and value from something as important as gender violence. And, of course, if budgets from the General Secretariat of Equality are allocated to these kinds of issues, because they have a use that is neither before nor after, and we should take it into account a little bit more. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. On behalf of the People's Group, Mrs. García Míguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u93	Good morning. To begin my intervention, I'm sure he'll come to set an example of the Galego Nationalist Block, recalling how Mr. Anxo Quintana took 5,000 women to dance with them to Silleda in his campaigns against gender violence. That's a good example, a good example of working against gender-based violence. [[Applause]] I also don't want to talk in my speech that it's a shame to talk about certain campaigns that two months ago have started, two months ago. [[Murmurs.]] I think from November 25 until today, unfortunately, in Galicia we have witnessed dramatic events. And with regard to parents and families, and I zero than society in general, we should not talk about smaller issues, but about issues that should add up, bring together efforts against gender violence, come from where they come from, come from who they come from. And the way is always trying, of course, to do the best possible. Of course, to begin with, I want to inform you, and I announce to you, that we are going to support your proposal, because there are initiatives being carried out by the Council of Galicia in the work of awareness-raising and awareness-raising in rural areas. There's a specific budget for this, and not only work in rural areas, but also in the training of teachers and students. We go further, and we want to also promote this awareness, this sensitization, the whole neighborhood, the neighbors and the neighbouring Galicians. With regard to Fademur and other associations, welcome to the Galician Parliament. Of course, we all know about their work, about their collaboration, with an agreement and through a grant, with the General Secretariat of Equality. Thank you for that job you're doing with women at risk of social exclusion. As the escorts who are here in Parliament well know, Fademur is doing an important job, specifically with women who are victims of gender-based violence, with women who live in rural areas, away from the population, with women who have an income of 2.5 less than the Iprem, with older women, unemployed women, with low-skilled women; ultimately with women at risk of social exclusion. Not only does Fademur receive this subsidy, but also other entities, specifically 94, and 67 of them work in the field specifically rural to care for these women in a situation of special vulnerability. Not only these entities, associations, do this very important work in rural areas, but also the municipalities of Galicia. Through the General Secretariat of Equality, all of the councils attached to the Network of local entities against gender violence carry out activities in a completely free way, funded by the General Secretariat of Equality, which touch a little of all important action programmes within what is prevention and awareness-raising against gender violence: the digital context, there are personal defence courses conducted by the Galaga de Loita Federation, a specific program for older women, there are also family therapy for children who suffer directly or indirectly from gender violence, information talks against trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation, prevention talks and awareness-raising against gender violence provided by the staff of Santiago de Compostela's Centre for Integral Recovery, various exhibitions and also play-recreational activities. As you see, rural people, not only through entities but also through municipalities, thanks to the General Secretariat of Equality, are covered. With regard to the training of teachers and students, as you know, the educational curricula of the children and the children of Greece have as a cross-cutting subject equality and the prevention of gender-based violence. What about the teacher? There is now, it is in effect, the first Education Action Plan on Equality 2016-2020, so more than 20,000 teachers last year received 2,800 training activities. This year it's 7,000 masters and teachers from Greece who are carrying out this training. Last year there were 6,000, with over 13,000 teachers in our autonomous community receiving this training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u95	We want to go further, take a qualitative leap — I have finished, President — by talking about social awareness, that it ceases to be a family environment, a private area, and that it becomes a problem of everyone and everyone. And that's why it moves from the Galician Union, from the Official College of Fincas Administrators and from the Spanish Association of Socio-Workers Auditors, support and impulse to neighbors, neighbors, through the communities of owners and owners, to a campaign of prevention and detection through 30,000 tripticals that are being distributed throughout all the province of Galicia through the neighborhood. Let's hope they join our initiative. We add to it because we believe it is positive, because we believe that we have to set an example, and more from the Galician Parliament, against gender-based violence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. García Míguez. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u97	Thank you, President. First of all, I also wanted to greet the people who accompany us today, and also to acknowledge all the work they do, which, as mentioned above, actually comes up with a shortage that the Public Administration has. We believe that it is also essential that, in order to put in place effective measures and measures that really fit our reality, it is essential to make a good diagnosis. And the surveys understand that they're not enough, there's not a detailed analysis that clearly incorporates the gender perspective. In fact, I think it's a necessary reflection that we have to do. Most of the parameters with which we analyze the economic situation and the social situation in our country are made from a purely androcentric vision, and the economy itself. That's why I hope that this initiative will also serve, even if it is not specified, to reflect on this issue and that the Greek Government will incorporate all these measures also when addressing statistics. Almost everything is said, and the data from this survey do not give rise to any doubts. They argue again that we have a lot left to do to eradicate gender inequalities. That's why we don't agree with the speech, which was lacking self-criticism on the part of the People's Party. They only spent these five minutes advertising. Because it's obvious that there's still a lot left to do. It seems to us, in addition, especially necessary this survey, which addresses a specific context such as rural, because it is clear that macho violence acquires characteristics and has different repercussions in this environment. We know that it is much more complex, on many occasions, to denounce from rural areas because there are far fewer resources than to go to, and we think that it has to be pointed out. Some fact that seems very significant to us and that leaves this inquiry — which has also been mentioned but which I would like to mention again — is that it does not necessarily associate gender-based violence with women alone. This gives a good example of how much we have left to raise awareness and raise awareness about the situation in which we find ourselves. On the subject of campaigns, it's evidence that they're not working. We need to rethink the model of the campaigns. That's why this initiative seems very positive to us, in the sense that campaigns are needed that are designed from the bottom up, with the participation of associations, with the participation of the collectives, and that they are really involved in the Galician society, which are not just a distribution of pamphlets and posters vertically, from the top to the bottom. Because we need campaigns to be taken by society as our own to really be carried out and to have more positive results. Above all, because it is necessary to rethink that we often focus solely on the most visible, which is very dramatic, of course, the murders — they are killing us — but we are still not able to visualize and raise awareness of all these other violences, about economic violence, about symbolic violence, about reproductive work — which continues to fall mostly on women. And we also have to focus on visualizing all these other forms of oppression, of inequalities that we suffer from women. Another fact that comes out in this inquiry and that seems to me to be remarkable is that the reasons for not reporting are the lack of response from the Administration and the slowness of justice. I wanted to mention it because I often think you have an excessively paternalist attitude, even condescending, with women, claiming that women have at their disposal all the resources of administrations and everything at their service. So maybe we should stop making these categorical claims and stop thinking about why many women don't take the step. Of course, there are a lot of reasons, not just the administration's response. But also, if there are women who give this answer in these surveys, we must stop making these statements and stop thinking about how to improve so that women really feel safe and can take the step in confidence. For example, we need to face economic alternatives, social rental aid, foster homes, rents, because economic dependence remains a fundamental factor in society as a whole, but especially in rural areas. That is why we must also focus on this part of the economic resources so that women can take these necessary steps. As I say, of course, we will support this initiative. We think he's taking a step. But I also wanted to point out that we often approve here initiatives that later have no connection with concrete actions. We have to budget ourselves and we have to follow up. It's no use that we approve of papers, that we approve of legislation, and then we don't put in place measures to end inequalities. I agree — and I will finish, that I no longer have time — on the subject of education. For us — we have often said — school is one of the fundamental agents to promote equality, and all the initiatives adopted in this regard will be very positive. The figures are dramatic, they're still killing us. That's why I appeal to fewer self-comprehensive speeches, less alleged to equality. And, of course, we all have to be in the fight against macho violence. But we need resources, we need a lot more action in the fight against this fence. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. The author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Pierres López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u99	Thank you, President. I appreciate the support of the different groups for the initiative that has been proposed today. And I also think that reaching consensus around this subject is so sensitive and of an impact on the future of so many women, men, children and children is to celebrate; they may be steps, they are small, but they are necessary. In any case, in the face of amendments from the different groups, we will accept that from the People's Party, with a slight change, in which they commit themselves — and we ask them to commit themselves — to put their proposal into practice during 2018. And basically because I understand it's a commitment to make more than they've ever thought about this 2018. We'll be watching for it to be so. And in the case of the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block, we feel we can't accept it, and basically because we understand that it deviates from the reason of the present initiative and that it is another reason, that we invite you in any case to present it. He used to talk about the responsibility we have ahead of us all. The struggle for equality is not a matter of women — it became clear — and they involve us all. These words, which can be obvious already in this Parliament, must be emphasized over and over again, especially because there is an interest in confronting women with men and positioning the feminist struggle as a aggression or loss of men's rights. We clarify this concept, we clarify many other things. When a man hires a woman, he is exercising gender-based violence; when a man hires a man for having relations with a woman, he is a direct victim also of that gender-based violence; when a man hires a child for being a woman's son, he is exercising gender-based violence; and when a man hires a man for being a woman's father, he is exercising gender-based violence. 45% of the population — I insist — do not seem to have clear this basic issue. Like 7% of the people who covered the Fademur survey don't consider rape a violent act. May this initiative be used to address these issues and improve education on an equal footing. And let us not lose sight of the fact that good intentions are no excuse for justifying the failure of actions that pursue equality, as well as good intentions are no excuse for justifying the financing of ineffective and even counterproductive campaigns. Behind all of this there is responsibility, all of them and everyone's. And that is what forces us, some of us, to carry out our work to promote and propose the improvement of the actions and initiatives we consider to be bankrupt — in this case of the effectiveness of the campaigns — and, others, to value and put into action those proposals and initiatives of improvement put forward. You, Mr. Garcia, now have an obligation to drive and we must light the lights to see with all possible optics what they have to face. This is the constructive opposition that we pretend to be, even though we sometimes have to ask them to step on the brake or change their course. If you lose your way, Galicia goes back, and that's a luxury we can't afford. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to improve accessibility in all areas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u101	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u102	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u103	For I begin with this idea so necessary that I have just exposed the socialist voicer: the struggle for equality is not just a struggle for women, it is a struggle for society as a whole. The same, the struggle for universal accessibility, which is a priority struggle for society as a whole. Unfortunately, we need to bring this Parliament back to focus on failing to comply with the Accessibility Act in our country. We're talking about a 2014 Welsh standard of a real decree of 2013, which established that on December 4, 2017 the basic conditions of accessibility and non-discrimination in certain products, services and contours should be met in a series of assumptions. The deadlines were broad, because, despite being a real decree of 2013, the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was 2003. I'm sure the People's Group itself will agree on a number of points, but what we need to agree on is political will, and that translates into budgets. Because the reality is that it arrived on December 4th last year and the law didn't develop at these points, and there's still a lot left to achieve the goal of universal accessibility. Thus, today, the objective marked in the preamble to the Greek law continues: "It is necessary to continue to move forward in order to achieve an inclusive and accessible society that guarantees people's autonomy, that avoids discrimination and favours equal opportunities for all" — I add: the citizens. We are therefore faced with a question of rights, of basic human rights, because precisely one of the principles set out in the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by the Spanish State as early as 2008, is accessibility. What is the objective of this principle? For the goal is only to guarantee the inalienable right of personal autonomy and participation in community life of all people, to have the abilities they have, because we are all diverse; universal accessibility that has surpassed that concept first to consider only physical barriers and that adds a wide battery of measures that has to do with adapting all kinds of spaces to all kinds of people's diversity. The cuts, however, have been fed to all people and precisely to those who have been most traditionally abandoned by the Administration, such as people with functional diversity. The law was a step forward, yes, but if it is not done and if it is not put in place the necessary effort for it to arrive last December if it can even fulfill — I say not everything — much of the remaining aspects to develop the law, for as the Auxilia delegate says in Lugo: "a lot of law, but of no use to us"; but of no use to us if we fail to comply. It is true that the fact that it had coincided with the maintenance of the social crisis in the years that should have developed the law is a negative conditioner for it, but it was precisely for that reason that the Administration had taken up much more decisively the bet by implementing this law. If this initiative is to agree on the urgency of measures that improve accessibility in our country, it will be a step forward, we know that insufficient, because even the measures we take in our initiative are insufficient. We could even include some questions that we later register on, in the event of the existence of gas stations self-service, for example, to ensure accessibility to these. But, finally, let's put these measures on the table because it will be a step forward if we succeed next year to commit ourselves to the development of the Accessibility Act, at least at some point. I'm starting to crumble those that various Lugo associations have marked as the most acquitting, applied to the city of Lugo, but that can clearly apply to all the cities of Greece and above all to the countryside of our country. First of all, the question of housing. It's true that it's a factor of inaccessibility in housing the large volume of old housing in our country. Thus, the College of Finance Administrators of Galicia values that reforms must be carried out in three out of four collective housing units. Thus — it is true what I was saying before — the fall of the purchasing power of families, and consequently of many communities of owners, also negatively affects the possibilities of improving accessibility both of the common spaces and also prevents many people in their own home from undergoing reforms that allow them to become more accessible. The works are, as you know, very expensive, so more support from the Administration would be needed. What's the result? For the dramatic result is that many people live literally trapped in the house. The problem is going to get worse in our country, because it's obvious that aging increases future accessibility needs. So, we have there the Order of 23 August 2017, which is the one that approves the bases for grants from the Elevator Installation Program and other accessibility devices. But what happens to this order? The 2017 credit was exhausted on December 5. For 2018 only EUR 1 million is allocated, clearly insufficient in view of the major needs. Moreover, overall, the housing policies of the Union fell from 2009 to the general level by 65%. We're going with transport, which is also an issue where serious deficiencies are detected, not only in adapted transport. Social organizations working with functional diversity also highlight the need to improve signaling and information on the route and stops, which is in charge of both the board and the county. The problems of adapted transport have also been the subject of complaints and interventions many times in the People's Valley in recent years, both in the use of social, health or educational services and in the lack of adaptation of public transport. Here we point out, for example, the words of the President of Cogami, who calls "the accessibility of urban transport in the cities of Greece, as well as the lack of adaptation of stops". But even worse is the situation of interurban transport, which this same person qualifies as a third-world transporter. And so -- it's true -- you can check it by going up to one of the interurban lines. We therefore have a plan to improve public transport, as we propose on the initiative, understanding — if we are to accept it from the amendment of the People's Party — that, of course, we must put it into the Galician Transport Plan. But we have to make a specific intervention, a specific plan on this issue, because it is serious the situation of accessibility to collective transport, and also the stops, of course. As for accessibility to public service offices, there is an order for municipalities to engage in works of accessibility to buildings or public use spaces of July 21, 2017. But let us also return to the question of money: a budget of less than EUR 1 million, clearly insufficient in view of the tremendous need for accessibility. This line of assistance is precisely directed at many actions that are necessary in our municipalities to improve accessibility, actions that need many more funds from the Board instead, as has been done, to reduce subsidies and agreements for housing councils. In fact, the different associations that work with functional diversity have detected accessibility priorities that have to do with precisely this type of action that contemplates order. But the needs are such that, as I say, the funds are insufficient. In this way, as I have already said, the accessibility priorities in the city of Lugo that have pointed out several associations can be extrapolated to any city. For example, on public roads, the improvement of the ramps and the end of the politics of the adoquinado is essential. The ramps often have such a inclination that it is not possible for people with wheelchairs to use them. And, on the other hand, the adoquins, the plates, are a very unbreakable barrier for people in wheelchairs or even with boxes. In this sense, we have an example at the very entrance of this Parliament. We can hardly legislate if in our home, in the "common house" — it is not the President of Parliament, but we leave it to him for later — we do not improve accessibility. And we could start because in this house universal accessibility is guaranteed. It's also urgent to remove electrical and telephony stations from public roads, which make it difficult to access and even prevent many people from passing through, and it's necessary to demand it from businesses. As for signaling, since sound traffic lights are non-existent outside city and village centres, so progress should be made in their installation in the extraradiation of cities and villages and in the nuclei of rural population, in addition to improving existing ones. All of these issues — we know — are the problem of different administrations with different political colors — we advance this question, which may be a cause for reproach, but it is a country problem; it is a country problem that we have to solve and not leave invisibility and it is a country problem that requires budgets from the Union and requires specific aid and programmes. Museums, for example. A 2016 research, coordinated from the USC, under the title "Accessibility of museums. Visions and perspectives", he determined that in Galicia, while physical accessibility is fully regulated, sensory and cognitive accessibility and aspects of content communication are virtually non-existent. It's only for Lugo's provincial museum network. We have an example there that could — we should — extrapolate everyone who depends on the Council of Galicia. As far as tourist resources are concerned, there is much to be done. As for cinema, instead of improving resources at CRTVG. So what we're proposing is to act so that rights don't stay on paper. We'll also have an inquiry today about a report that qualifies social rights in our country as paper rights. Paper rights are also people with functional diversity if we don't guarantee compliance with the law and if we don't make this a reality by now 2018.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. You have the floor, by the Galician Socialist Group, Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u105	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Let me, first of all, make today from the Socialist Group a recognition to people, to sign-language interpreters, who certainly, with many difficulties on occasion, interpret our language. And there's also a criticism, or complete what Mrs Vázquez Verao said, that Parliament's committees cannot yet be followed by that system. Affected by architectural barriers we are all and all or we can all be at some point. Not only do we talk about people with functional diversity, but we also talk about our biggest. More than 250,000 people over the age of 63 live alone in their homes for giving a data. And also those cases of temporary reduced mobility due to any kind of injury we've probably had throughout our lives. Accessibility is not a mania, it's not a whim, it's not something voluntary, it's a necessity, it's mandatory by law, and it's also a door to equal opportunities and it feels a basis for a more dignified society, which is why all of us should be working. The Accessibility Act of 2014, which was adopted with the only vote in favour of the People's Party; the rest of the opposition groups abstained, the included PSdeG; it was not a whim; we said it clearly then; there was no budgetary provision to put it into effect and we already said that what is not accounts are tales. Today, with the amendment we tabled, what we want is to strengthen our accounts and not strengthen that bill that came into force in 2014. That's why what we're asking for in our amendment is an order of annual aid to the municipalities, some economically drowned municipalities that have a lot of difficulty doing these kinds of structural reforms, and help to adapt housing, which is fundamental, in addition to focusing on equal opportunities, also on personal autonomy. The Socialist Group has brought about a lot of disability initiatives. In Commission 5 we are unable to reach any agreement on this matter. It is true — and let my congratulations go to my companion Mrs. Pierres — that you did achieve it in Commission 2nd, as it is also true that they are agreements on wet paper, that they never come to materialize themselves precisely because of that budget failure. They are therefore conditioning people's rights with functional diversity due to budgetary constraints. This is not just what the Socialist Group says; it is what the disabled entities and the People's Valator himself say, that in one report after another it is about this issue again. This is the social policy area that most complaints receive the People's Valley through the oppression — and I quote textually — "of the rights of persons with disabilities" and that lack of accessibility, which is what we have seen today. The truth is, time has given us reason, because it's over time since all infrastructures should be adapted, they're not, and this is the result of this budget failure, which is just a failure of political will as well. The most serious of all these cases is that many of the infrastructures we are talking about are public ownership, with which it is a clear responsibility of the self-government itself. The example of Lugo was set here. I know, Mrs. Vázquez Verao, that you didn't intend to make a partisan use of the city of Lugo. I am clear and it is true that you have come to set an example of what Socialists feel particularly proud and proud, with their evasives, that I am sure that much remains to be done too, because it is the first deputy to have a prize for the institutional initiative, which has given Cogami itself, as the most accessible tourist destination of all the cities of Spain, a special mention of the European Commission itself by the inclusive approach to disability. Much remains to be done in Lugo and in all the cities and villages of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, but — let us repeat — it is a matter of political will, it is a budgetary matter, and that is why we hope that In Marea will accept the amendment of the PSdEG. And, of course, we -- and already to finish -- consider accessibility a key factor for social inclusion. That's why we would like this initiative to go forward today. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is true, Mrs Vázquez Verao, that full participation in the society of people who have some kind of functional diversity is clearly influenced by accessibility. We don't deny that. And we also know that from that point on, all the people who belong to the parliamentary groups that we are in this Parliament are fully aware of this issue and willing to do everything in our hand to add and not remain. We too are always willing to reach agreements — and I quote Mrs Blanco — with Mrs Pierres, who certainly presented a very reasonable and very realistic initiative, so we do not doubt from the People's Group supporting her at the same time. But when the proposals that are brought in, I do not want to hurt sensibilities, they are not realistic or very difficult to execute, they put us in a very difficult position to vote in favour of them. Ladies and gentlemen of the Tide, it's not just that the Galician Union is not in a position to cover everything you ask for in your proposal, that you wouldn't be able either to present that same proposal to the councils where you rule, referred to of course to the municipal powers. You could hardly, for example, adapt the public channels of municipal ownership to the requirements that you are asking for. In fact, the city of Lugo has been mentioned, but in the city of Coruña, where you rule, no new project to eliminate architectural barriers has been promoted. The Government of the People's Group has left them two projects made that have been processed and are now paralyzed by management errors. I don't think they could guarantee universal accessibility in six months of all the museums in the city of Coruña, because they haven't even started for the first time. Therefore, Mrs. Vázquez Verao, it is very easy to come here and ask the Board to do what you are unable to do in the municipalities where they rule; and it's easy, but I think it's not serious, because this is a very serious matter. And you, if this same initiative were to be presented in the middle of the cities where they rule, they would have to vote only if not, Mrs Vázquez Verao. However, what we ask them to do in the amendment is precisely the opposite: that the councils also involve themselves and cooperate with the Council of Galicia in what if it is being done, which is a lot, and, as you said — and is quite right — continue to move forward on this subject, but continue to move on together: the Board, the councils, all the administrations involved. We ask, for example, that in each road remodeling project, be municipal or autonomous, accessibility criteria, not only physical, but also sensory; that the bidding of transport — as you have spoken about — be noted in those companies that have adapted bus services. By the way, Junta is already doing this with the cab service adapted with the help of the Infrastructure Council, without the help of the municipality. We ask that the aid be disseminated and even increased — as you have also spoken — for the removal of barriers in housing. And we also call on the municipalities to imitate the Council in something that, for example, this Parliament has already done, which has been to convene public employment squares specific to people with intellectual disabilities. The same advisor to Fairy here has been in this Chamber and has offered the assistance of the Board to any council interested in doing so. And you know, Mrs. Vázquez Verao, how many municipalities were interested? Zero, no council was interested; in fact, they found squares in the PLOs of Pontevedra and the Coruña recently and do not contemplate any place for intellectual disability; that is, they give examples. You could in this topic imitate Junta, which was, according to a newspaper this same month, a historic record in 2017, with 5,328 contracts for people with disabilities; it was published in a newspaper this same month. So we do not in any case ask that the Board take responsibility, but shared responsibility. I don't know what's going on. They talk about emergencies, where since 2014 deaf people can already count on 112 via SMS. They're asking for an application to be implemented, so we're asking for it. They talk about tourism, but they're talking about it now, after the Board had approved the first plan of accessibility in tourism, of what it spoke about in Fitur last week, the manager of the Plan Xacobeo, with Cogami, who spoke about the accessible tourism of Galicia. In the same way that the Board's own administration decree regulates the attention offices, a video interpretation service for deaf people, or complaints and suggestions that blind people make on the phone, that are processed, just like the people they see do in writing. This is very important.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u108	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u109	I'm done, Mr. President. A decree that, by the way, develops a quality assurance law for services and that you voted against. I could tell them a lot more. We tabled a 13-point amendment where we would like to reach many agreements. And to finish, because I don't have time, to tell them to ask for impossible things, that you don't even make yourself where they rule. We ask that we go to the ground as far as possible, as we can go, in search of greater accessibility and greater integration of people with disabilities. You choose: either stay with the headline or keep moving. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u111	We're talking here today about an initiative that talks about rights and talks about rights recognized in legal texts. And I was saying to the People's Party that we have just intervened that we are all aware of this issue, but there is a reality: that, in addition to being sensitized, the parties that support the Government, as is the case with the People's Party, which supports the Government of the Union, in addition to being sensitized, which is good and basic premise, must then transfer that sensitivity not in obligation, but in compliance with the laws. I mean, we're not all on equal terms here, not all of us have the same responsibilities. Some of us are sensitized, we present initiatives, we drive, but then there is responsibility, and responsibility is for the Government of the Union, which has to implement the laws. Because, of course, just like the People's Party every day we see in the headlines that the law is about to be fulfilled, but just like the laws that suit the People's Party, that maybe there are others that don't suit you so much and then they can't be fulfilled. And, then, we're talking about a subject of legislation, and there's a time-consuming legislation, and one of the deadlines was that on December 4, 2017 public buildings and others had to be adapted, and it didn't meet. Because, in addition to making the laws, then we have to budget them so that they can be verified in concrete measures. And the full exercise of the rights of citizens, of persons with disabilities, is largely subject to compliance with the previous budget, which is that access to use and enjoyment in sets, borders, goods, products and services of a society must be possible. It involves this right to universal accessibility to overcome all kinds of barriers. And usually, when we think of universal accessibility, we usually think of people with some kind of disability or functional diversity, but it's also necessary for older people. I have to remember that in Galicia nearly 25% of our population is over 65 years old and that almost 9% — or 8.76% — are over 80 years old, with which there is also a demographic reality in Galicia that makes it more necessary if that necessary accessibility is necessary. And then we have to add the surviving disabilities, either by an injury, by an accident, by a disease or even something as normal as having to go with baby carts or other kinds of issues. So the first thing that jumps into our heads when we talk about accessibility is architectural barriers, and all of us are faced with the difficulty of saving stairs, to go through narrow places, to walk through a long space where there are no places to stop along the road — and this then becomes insurmountable, that route, for many people — or open or close doors that have a return to many people who have to go to wheelchairs — for example, it's impossible to access those spaces — or electronic devices that need to have hands for example existable. So, we're talking about a very important physical condition. But we must also add to this many other kinds of diversity, such as sensorys, by the sight, by the ear, for people with autism, who need pictograms; that is, we're talking about a tremendously important fan. They are therefore many and complex areas in which we must act, and it is clear that the first step to act is to make the decision that this is a priority, and so I began by saying that it was very good that we had sensitivity to the issue, but much better is that, after showing unanimity, after having a consensus about the need to implement measures, these have to be verified and become concrete actions to be developed and have to become budgets. And that's what, really, is not being done. There is a strong appeal for attention, mainly by associations of persons with disabilities, who will have to step up their actions, their demands, their mobilizations, so that this laxity is left to the issues covered by legislation, human rights, state legislation, adherence to international treaties and then to the laws of the European Union — we speak of the laws of Greece — that become reality. Because they're also a little tired and tired of waiting like many of those laws are on wet paper...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u112	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u113	...and they're only used to brag about the legislative activity, to say that there's a legislation that we approve of, but then they see how it goes year by year and priorities go on the other side. We therefore support this initiative, which could indeed be complemented by many other paragraphs. That's why the BNG didn't amend, because it would be very complicated to put everything away, and we hope that from then on the initiative or amendment presented by the People's Party, which is to try to put here all the things they're doing and in many cases that have nothing to do with accessibility, a sort of reminder, don't lead to the fact that it's left again on wet paper.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u115	Yes, of course, I've already made progress at the beginning that the tasks we put on this initiative are cross-sectional, administrational and cross-sectional in political colors, we don't hide that. But we don't admit they're utopia, they're goals that must be guaranteed to guarantee rights. The only time frame we put in is those six months on the theme of the museums, yes, but we're going to pull it out and we're going to set the deadline for the People's Party. Because the People's Party approved the Welsh Strategy on Disability 2015-2020. We set the 2020 deadline. We do not consider it utopia when the Union itself considers it as the date on which this goal should be achieved — strategic line 1 — to ensure the universal accessibility of persons with disabilities to the physical, social, economic, political and cultural fields for the full exercise of their fundamental rights and freedoms. It's a 2020 target. If the six-month term is a utopia, let's put it 2020, but not a utopia, it's because it's a matter of budgeting, because reality is another reality, that many of the measures that came in the Welsh Strategy on Disability have not been developed, some have been minimally and some have not been done. Where is the impetus to the extension of sound signals and with time indication in all the municipalities of Galicia, mechanisms that guarantee transport adapted to persons with disabilities who need it to ensure access to any service, elimination of discrimination for geographical reasons...?, as long as it progresses in this field! Finally, let's put deadlines: 2020. We are prepared to seek an agreement, accepting the amendments of the PSdeG, the need to state that the Board publishes annual aid orders — not biannual as it is now, but annual — specific to the municipalities. We welcome the need, yes, of the People's Party, which calls for cooperation from the municipalities. So we assume the point presented by the PSdEG as point 8.8.bis, we assume it fully. This transaction will be passed to the House Services in its entirety. And the People's Party accepts, if they want, all the points from 7 to 13 we agree. We are looking for a transaction to ensure that all these needs are shaped, and in writing, by taking away that six-month question, putting them on the horizon of 2020. But do it and do it with plans. I was left in the explanatory statement to point out the question of deaf people, who continue to have many difficulties in communicating with the Administration, as well as deaf or blind people — not yet guaranteed universal accessibility — or the greatest vulnerability women with disabilities have to lose universal accessibility capabilities to all services. So we agree to overcome not only the visible barriers but also the invisible ones of prejudice and lack of empathy, which leads us to the fact that the universal accessibility strategy is not fully integrated into all actions. And since you are now the President, I remind you of the requests we have left for access to the groups in this debate, both the elimination of the roadblock at the entry of Parliament, which is very difficult for people in wheelchairs to pass through, and the need for committees to be also in sign language.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u116	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. If that transaction comes to us, we thank him. We are also on the issue of accessibility, as I announced the other day, that there will be a master plan, precisely, to modify that difficulty that exists. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the project of water transvasion of the River Verdugo to the chorus of Eiras that is currently processing Waters of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u117	Amendments have been tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u118	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. I would like to begin by welcoming the representation of the Verdugo River Defense Platform and also the representatives of the municipalities of Ponte Caldelas and Soutomaior, who accompany us today in this plenary session, and also by congratulating them on their exemplary struggle to defend the Verdugo River and to put on the table viable and sustainable alternatives to solve this water supply problem. Because today we came here to talk about several questions. Firstly, we want to give the debate on transvasion, which we can actually say is a bombardment, as a concrete measure, by analysing all the pros and cons and the environmental and socio-economic consequences of this work. We also think that it is time to give a serious and calm debate about the supply of water to Vigo and its region, about the amount of water needed and consumed, and also about the quality of water, a constructive proposal that we bring here to overcome confrontation and to reach agreements that allow problems to be solved pending, by the way, problems that have been perfectly known for at least fifteen years. And we can say, therefore, that the main objective of this proposal is to work in favour of Vigo and its geographic area to solve this pending problem. Because we have to admit, first of all, that there is a problem, that it is a complex problem, but that it is a problem that has a solution, that there are solutions. And beyond this confrontation, which is becoming a confrontation also partyist, we think there must be a serious debate, a rigorous debate, about the need for a new culture of water. This is the underlying problem that needs to be addressed and that needs to be solved. We have to go to a model change that responds to this cyclical problem of drought and the possible sharpening that will occur in the coming years as a result of climate change. We are therefore talking about a policy and a water culture that takes care of resources, rivers, basins, and in this case the basins of the Oitavén River and the Verdugo River, which are the source of immense wealth — ecological, landscape, social and economic — that must be preserved. We must, of course, manage these resources rationally, efficiently and sustainably with an action that compromises society as a whole and all administrations, also fulfilling the European Water Directive and that law which was approved in 2006 for the conservation, protection and improvement of the Greek rivers, which seems to have it now stored there in a drawer. As I said, we have to start from an absolutely contrasted reality. First, the cyclical character of the problems of drought, which occur throughout the catchment of Galician coast and especially in the so-called system 1 — which is what we are talking about — has to do with the Vigo river and the Baiona river. This problem has been repeated in the years 2011, 2012 and 2015, and in 2017, as we recently saw, and before there had been other problems. Also from the recognition of knowledge, at least for a decade, in supply networks from Eiras to the municipalities it supplies, which are Soutomaier, Round it, Vigo, The Porriño, Moaña and Cangas and other municipalities that also supply themselves from the Porriño. There are problems in the supply tubing, which is 27 kilometers away, and the Vigo Town Hall itself, four years ago, warned of the need to do works, valued at more than 5.5 million euros, to improve this tubing. There are also problems in Vigo's distribution network, which has more than a thousand kilometers of tubing, which has deficiencies, because it's an obsolete, old-fashioned network, which has much of its pipelines with materials like fibrosis or foundry and other more modern ones, but which are causing problems, above all that they have to do with the quality of water, as we have seen in recent weeks in the case of Canido and other parishes of Vigo. And it's also known, for some time, the need to improve the positivity station of the Casal, in Vigo, and it's been spoken of since 2004 of this necessity. There were projects, forethoughts, reports that talked about investments of 20 million euros. And they are, as we say, investments that must be shared, not just problems of a municipality, because this network supplies many municipalities and it is a general and collective problem. With regard to transvasion, first of all, our initiative was December. The circumstances have changed since that until now; among other things, the warning has changed in advance, it has returned to the pre-war state. So what we asked for on this initiative, after the debate on the urgency of the work — I think that with Eiras' encouragement in its maximum capacity it makes no sense, and so acknowledged the Government itself, to propose the realization of this work by urgency — is to go to the debate on the need — we believe that it is unnecessary — to address this work, by the way, which has been a measure already wasted in the past, at least in 2012 by the waters of Galicia itself and by the Environmental Council for its environmental impact. That was the reason that this measure was discarded in 2012 because of its ecological impact, because it seems reasonable that this measure is taken when the river has less flow; then the consequences are, of course, very serious and catastrophic. In addition, the Administration itself says that this is the last measure to be considered and that a number of measures should first be applied in the drought plan itself of the year 2013, both the measures for the state of pre-war, which was decided, in this case, by September 2016, and that the measures provided for there have not been implemented. Therefore, one cannot go to an extreme measure without previously applying other measures, such as those relating to use control, citizen awareness, municipal orders, leak detection, loss reduction on the network, or the measures also covered by the alert issued on 2 October 2017, which speaks of limitations of use and modification of the tariff structure — a debate that has to do with the local water pact, which is also parked there, although there are recommendations by the technical commission—, hourly cuts and restrictions of use, transhipment with mobile means. I mean, there's a lot of other measures that have not been implemented and so they don't justify a transvasion like this. And there are, of course, other issues that are also pending, such as that very local water pact, which has already been started and signed in 2013 and spent four years and we don't see any results, despite the fact that there have also been agreements in this Parliament to push that local water pact. There's an ejaculation, a clear lack of participation on this subject. It must be a matter of co-responsibility for the whole of society and institutions. And the Water Act predicts in 2010 the creation of the Water Sustainable Use Council, which is also stored there in a drawer. There is no interest in submitting this topic to a real public debate, open, transparent, where all needs have been raised, and also all possible solutions. And, therefore, we bring here a proposal that aims to put on the table solutions, solutions for the River Verdugo and solutions for Vigo and for the whole area, actions that are not punctual measures, measures that we can consider patches, measures of urgency, but rather comprehensive actions with a view to the future. The first question is to discard the transvasion, and that's why we made a change in writing, also correcting an error — because really a transvasion is a pumping that goes to the tubing, which does not go to the coronation of Eiras— because of its negative impact, by its negative environmental impact on the river, on the biodiversity that welcomes the river, and also by its socio-economic impact, also by the whole economy that lives from the river and the river bottom of Vigo, above all the fishing and seafood activities, which are many families that live from the river and the river; also by their majority social rejection, as it has manifested itself in recent months, and also by the opposite positioning of the municipalities affected by this work. By the way, Ponte Caldelas, Soutomaior, Pontevedra, even The Lama — the mayor of the Lama also stood against — governed by different political parties; that is, there is an absolutely clear agreement there regarding the rejection of this work. Secondly, what we ask for is, to solve the problems that Vigo has and that he has his area, that they are known, as I said, an investment plan, that must be shared by the Junta, the Administration of the State and the Vigo Council, because it is a problem that also affects Moaña, Cangas, the Roundup, the Porriño, the Soutomaier, the other municipalities, and therefore it must address together, to improve the efficiency of the water supply system throughout this area, with the object of reducing the losses caused by leaks and ruptures, which is considered to be above 30%, which is basically the same amount of water that is lost by ruptures and losses that would be achieved through that transvasion. So the priority must be to solve this problem of all the water that is being wasted, and there are not the times to draw the water out of the roads. Secondly, the expansion and modernization of the Casal poser in Vigo, which must also be a shared work, because it also supplies Moaña and Cangas. The Town Hall itself and the Union itself have recognized for more than five years the inability, the insufficiency, the lack of technology to process and treat water, especially when it falls from certain levels, when it's under 40% or 35% in the coronation. And we also call for the need, as I said, of a social, institutional pact, wider to address this issue, to talk about rationalization and sustainable use of water, of savings, of consumption reduction, of reuse, of avoiding buckets and water from green areas with purified water, revision of the tariff structure — it makes no sense that it pays the same person who consumes 5 cubic metres that he consumes 15—, to reward savings, to penalize abuse, to differentiate domestic consumption and industrial consumption, and, above all, also to learn from positive experiences, that there are many cities that are still growing into population, such as Zaragoza, have reduced their consumption; or cities as Pontevedra, who have done their duties and have lost below 5% in their water distribution network. So the conclusion is that this initiative has two objectives that are perfectly complementary: to safeguard the River Verdugo, to protect that good, that wealth that we have in the river...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u120	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u121	...all its diversity, all the wealth it produces, and, secondly, guarantee water supply — and quality water — to Vigo and the municipalities of its area. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u122	Thank you, Mr Bará. They can't make demonstrations for the guests of the audience. Thank you. I was addressing the guests of the audience, who are not allowed in the gallery to make demonstrations. It's a warning that's collected in our regulations. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u123	Thank you, President. I also want to greet the members of the association, the neighbors of Ponte Caldelas and my neighbors sometimes of Soutomaior, in particular of Arcade. The truth is for some time now that Mr. Feijó's government has decided that better results would have to be achieved in Pontevedra province; the end is of course: it is to recover the Deputy, and it goes in any way and makes any excuse for it to come to this end, whether the merger on its day of Sardinia and Cotobade, to be able to someday modify the judicial parties; it is that agreement in Sanxenxo to give Telmo Martín mayorial again; it is already by means of a motion of censure in Oia, in Pontecesures, in Tui; and it is already through the drought and this potentiation of a crossing between the River Verdug and the River Eighthivén, urgent, to fill with water the resound of Eiras. Thus, Mr. Rueda can reach Pontevedra province and say that he is the champion who gave Vigo water, thanks to this transvasion, even more champion than Mayor Abel Caballero himself. Of course, the problem is that the government didn't have certain things that happen and sometimes it doesn't control. He controls a lot, but he doesn't control everything. Sometimes he's not able to control the neighboring pressure, he's never able to control the weather, obviously — he started to rain — and he wasn't able to control his Soutomajor mayor, who noticed the neighboring pressure in Soutomairo and also protested and said he wasn't in favor of the transvasation; and then the government stopped the emergency procedure. Anti-drought forecasting, fighting climate change. Nothing at all. We've been taking periods of drought ever closer to time; the last one, very worrying, between mid-2016 and the end of the year that's just over; the two basins, Galicia coast and Miño-Sil, first in advance and then on the alert, but also the Douro and the Western Cantabria, which pass through Galicia. The drought plan is 2013, and it's seen that it doesn't work very well, it doesn't have a budget. The drought technical office has not arrived for long, and coordination with other hydrographic demarcations, not only that of the Mino-Sil, is amazing, so amazing that when the Rural Middle Council established bases for aid to ensure the supply of water to the gainful farms, it forgot the municipalities affected by the western Cantabrian basin and then had to take out a new decree correcting the previous one, because it had forgotten that there was in our autonomous community this hydrographic demarcation. You've been ruling in our Autonomous Community for almost thirty years, you should rethink from the very beginning, from your source, your water policy, you should already take preventive measures in the face of drought, manage the water current environment, respect the ecological flows, manage the daily use of drinking water — starting with public buildings, for example, those that are owned by you –, sectorize supply networks, use advanced techniques in search of escape, regulate the pressure of the network depending on demand, give priority to the processes of purification, reuse water and put in place aid for the agriculture, work with businesses and large consumers to improve their cost ratio, develop awareness campaigns for the end consumers, and also predict works that intercommunicate the shells, but do not wait for the most serious drought period of the last decade, just to enhance a transvasion that gives them political redemption. All these measures should be defined in the drought plan, with a coordinated protocol, also with the municipalities, and with a demand to the Government of the State for the Mino-Sil hydrographic demarcation to do the same. And you should already present a law of hydrological transition to Galicia, instead of the Environmental Adviser coming up with his work on the nomination of the Council of the Crown. We have been asking for these measures, this legislation, the previous legislation, the others; you always vote against. There's a drought plan, a flood risk plan, a hydrological plan that's not used to accomplish its goals, they don't meet their objectives. The Junta budget for 2018 is absolutely nothing for the drought, and the only campaign to encourage savings and efficiency in water consumption was this one, with exotic animals — ghouls, elephants, lions...; they could bring, as my comrade of Ourense said, the sheep that are grazing, trying to feed on cours that do not have water in Ourense, because there are no pastures. [[Mrs. Vilan Lorenzo shows a photograph]] You guys looking for this were electoral receipts, and we understand that the debate goes a lot further, it's much more serious than facing populations by the River Verdugo. At the time we proposed a replacement amendment at the first point to the non-law proposal of the BNG; as soon as this was outside the regulation, a self-amendment, we could not make an amendment to the self-amendment, because the regulation does not give us that possibility; in any case, we kept our amendment of substitution and we asked the proposed parliamentary group to allow the voting by points to this parliamentary group. For our own sake, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u125	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, a special greeting to the members of the platform and conventioners too in some way, because I'm from the Lama and I have very good memories of my childhood and youth in the River Verdugo and have special affection for him. It goes on to give support, as it cannot be otherwise, to this initiative brought today by the Nationalist Block of Wales, an initiative, as Luís Bará has already commented, registered at a time when there was a statement of urgency, which although now is no longer such the initiative is still in full vigency, and we consider that even more, because we can now make a much more peaceful debate. At the moment it seemed to us an irrational measure — and so we expressed it —; keeping the statement of urgency in time already seemed completely irresponsible, when there were no conditions to maintain that statement of urgency in time. Water is a very precious, scarce, ever more, nothing new, though, knowing the advisers of the People's Party, we suppose they will have doubts in this regard. On the other hand, we understand that access to water cannot be used to campaign, it cannot be used to engage in political battle and hide deficiencies in management. The crossing of the River Verdugo must be considered the last resort after all measures have been put in place to improve efficiency, which obviously has not been done. He didn't do anything, he got to the emergency situation, he launched the occurrence, and he blamed himself among administrations for hiding that no duties had been done. Before even talking about the possibility of transvasion, we have to talk about conservation of the water cycle and efficiency in management and use, issues that nobody has cared about, and then the occurrences come to save the face and campaign. They proposed the transvasion to make it look like they have the controlled situation, that the Administration is there to solve the problems, when the reality is that the problem has come because the Administration has not been there and has not done its duties. We have a number of problems in water management and use in the current climate, a context that we also come up with due to inaction in the face of savage neoliberalism that destroys everything from where it goes. Climate change that the People's Party tried to hide until there was no more remedy than to accept that when it's hot one morning in December or when we spend year and half practically without precipitation climate change arrives at the door of the house and everyone sees it. We know that wild neoliberalism, which likes deregulation, is not good for it to be controlled, that there are environmental controls on these issues. Your model is incompatible with your life, your model is incompatible with your environment. We wonder how it's possible for us to be caught by surprise by a situation like the one we arrived in December. How could it not have moved a single finger not before but at least throughout the past year, in which there were hardly any precipitations and could have been expected such a situation as it was? You can't be doing anything at all and when the moment of social alarm arrives as the great savior attempting to do an enormously aggressive work with the environment and which probably didn't solve the problem either in the medium and long term, which needs another kind of action. A project of such magnitudes in all its concept, such as transvasion, cannot be posed from the improvisation and urgency of those who have not done their duties. It has long been necessary to practice real measures of water saving, to abandon the lack of forecasting and to carry out actions aimed at the sustainable and reasonable use of water. Finally, we can no longer delay the necessary measures for the proper management of this precious resource, which cannot be replaced by emergency occurrences, which are ultimately used as smoke curtains to hide deficiencies in management, misleading citizenship, and which do not solve the problem in the medium and long term, causing aggression in the middle, putting at risk the productive sectors, very dependent on the river, where we must highlight the possible conditions to the maritime bank of the outlet. You play with fire when you use this issue by taking responsibility for one administration to another, when it's obvious that all administrations have a lot of field of improvement and much to do before you pose a transvasion. I suppose there is no need to remember that without water, life is impossible and that all efforts to preserve these resources are few, and that the sooner we start looking for solutions and putting into practice the necessary measures will be much better for everyone. And finally, I would also like to talk about the need to facilitate the recovery of water management by the municipalities. The concessionaires are having a vast margin of benefit that would well use it to improve water efficiency. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u126	Thank you, Mr. Cal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Greetings also the guests who come from the county. And precisely in the region they will allow and understand why Roundla is a little more fair town today. And that's why I want to start by thanking the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo for the announcement he made yesterday that he will end the discriminatory beach of Rande, that the roundabouts and the whole region have been suffering eleven years thanks to the indifference of the two-party government and Mr. Zapatero at that time. [[Applause]] Turning to the subject, I have to say that we cannot support this improvised initiative for two reasons. First of all, because if we are asked to do some studies that are already done and that have led to an emergency decision at the moment, and now that the emergency has disappeared, it is routinely processed. Disappeared because it rained, Mrs. Vilan, not because of popular pressure, it rained! There are things that actually don't control any government. And that's why we're going to process it through the ordinary way and we're going to ask it to be done with consensus, because absolutely all the proposals are nuisances and these are also. Secondly, because discarding this act would condemn many citizens to the fact that the supply of drinking water depends exclusively on the most irresponsible and demagogic municipal government in the history of Vigo. And since we're not going to confuse the government with the city and citizens, because we believe that we need to work together to ensure adequate supplies to such an important area, because even when that competition is exclusively municipal—reading the Law on the Basics of the Local Regime—the Government has always collaborated with the municipalities in the water supply, especially with the small ones, it will also do so with the Vigo Town Hall, when the latter ceases to dwindle the partridge, as it has previously done with the Town Council in other actions. And, yes, from that time on, I would like to place responsibilities on the Board to develop action plans in matters of a municipal nature exclusively to us, if it seems to us to be somewhat rigid and obeys only the interests of partisans. Having clarified this position, we must address the underlying problem that caused this problem of drinking water supply in the city of Vigo and above all the quality of Vigo water. Because that's the problem that causes all this, and of course they had to take action there. But the cluster of improvisations, nonsense, lies and manipulations in which Vigo's government in connection with this issue are frankly intolerable. Let's remember. In September 2016 the Galician Union activated the pre-arrangement in Vigo. After eleven months of drought, in August 2017 statements, the mayor of Vigo says, "The city has no dry matter, no water problem," and consequently decides to celebrate the Water Festival, dilapidating a valuable asset and at that moment very scarce and sending a malicious message to the citizens. Mrs. Vilan didn't like the awareness campaign that she did to Junta; perhaps changing a ghetto for a dinosaur brought the message to some citizens, especially the one ruling in Vigo. Two months after that party, the Town Hall activates the drought emergency plan. And fifteen days later, ignoring the advance activating one year before the Board, the mayor accuses Junta of neglect, for a few days later, after forty-eight hours of rain, of declaring one of the worst droughts in our history. And in the midst of this delusional spiral of nonsense to Junta has agreed to deal with the emergency route of transvasion of the Verdugo to Eiras, in fact, to ensure the supply of the county. The mayor, in a situation he himself qualified as a red alert, took a month to accept that proposal, a sufficient time for the arrangements to recover a level above 80%, which is why the emergency situation disappears. This vodevil, written and starred by Mr. Caballero, has only one objective, which is to hide the vigues who are selling the mineral water at the price of water from the florists. And for this it's worth everything: hiding reports, hiding investments, denying analyses of the opposition — which had to go to the People's Valley — and even massively purging the pipes just next to one of the schools where the Union banned water consumption by its very high iron content. And all of this is known by the mayor. The Voice of Galicia, 22-12-2017: "Abel Caballero revealed yesterday that he knew the report of the Ría de Vigo College in Canido, justifying that there was no need to alert the management of the centre or the board because the municipal analysis laboratory is not approved. He blamed the Xunta of the levels in the water for not renewing the pipes or for not letting the water run long enough." Now we understand what it's like to let the water run in Vigo. But all these problems come from a single question, which is that the money that the citizens of Vigo are paying, the citizens of Cangas, the citizens of Moaña, the citizens of Porriño, the citizens of Round it up to the Vigo Town Hall in exchange for their water, the mayor of Vigo spends them on self-promotion instead of investing them in the water cycle. And the People's Party doesn't say it, says a report from the dealership itself; I quote literally: "The ETAP of the Casal currently presents a clearly obsolete design and a lack of treatment that makes it impossible to comply with the limitations laid down in the royal decree. The current installations do not allow compliance with the current legislation or guarantee treatment for demand flows." And he adds, "The decision on renewal is sensitive to the occurrence of unforeseen events linked to the deterioration of pipes. This deterioration can be classified as three types: structural, hydraulic and water quality." And about this it says, "the third cause that can be..." -- I would say it must -- "...impress the renewal of pipes is the impossibility of meeting the criteria of water quality, which basically manifest themselves through an increase in turbidity, high concentrations of iron and manganese generated by old casting pipes... ", etc., etc.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u129	I'm done, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are playing with the health of the vigues and with the health of all citizens of Vigo County. No more lies, no more manipulations. Make public the tests they hide. Just purges and tricks to hide reality from the beams. No more parterres, no more sidewalks, no more luminaires and invest in the health of the vigues. Because in Vigo, unfortunately, there are two things too turbulent: the water that comes out by the balls and the action of the mayor's government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u130	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u131	The BNG regrets that the People's Party does not support these measures, that they would be positive measures both for the River Verdugo and for Vigo and its area. They say they're going through the ordinary route; there's no other remedy left, because the circumstances for an emergency processing are not given. And it says that they will process it by consensus; I would like you to explain to me what this consensus is going to be like when the full Councils of Ponte Caldelas and Soutomaior spoke unanimously against this action. How are you... What are they going to do: impose consensus? You will have to come to an agreement and count on the position, which was clear and unanimous on the part of governed municipalities, one, by the People's Party — with an absolute majority — of Soutomaier's, and another, in a government coalition of the PSOE and the BNG. So to see what those consensus is that you're defending. Look, this isn't just Vigo's problem. I think I made it clear in my intervention. It's a country problem, but it's a problem in the entire geographic area, the urban area of Vigo. And Junta has to get involved in the solution and not turn this into a partisan war, a war between institutions. Because what you've been doing in recent years is confronting and confronting yourself with the subject of the metropolitan area, the subject of transport, the subject of the Cyes, the subject of supply. Together with the Vigo Town Hall, sit down and come to an agreement. Because, moreover, the drought plan already foresees these measures, and they are measures of the drought plan, they are not measures of the Vigo Council. These are measures from all administrations, which have to do with the improvement of supply, with the improvement of ETAP and with savings, with awareness. Look, I'm telling you more about transvasion. In 2012 – April 2012 – Galician Union discarded the transvasion. A note from Gallica's own Union: "Galyce Waters are closing at this time the proposal for improved supply to the entire metropolitan area of Vigo..." — we're talking about April 2012, the proposal is closed and we don't know it today—...which will be presented in May. The technical solution provided by the Vigo Town Hall to catch water in the Verdugo River is not environmentally viable. And so it was demonstrated in the past summer in the months of February and March, where the flow of the Verdugo was lower than the demand needed to strengthen Eiras." So he's already been wasted. Government of the State and Together agree the improvement of the Casal plant to ensure the quality of the water. The Galician Union and the State Government were planning to make an investment. I don't say it has to be just responsibility for these two administrations — including the Town Hall, because the plant supplies more municipalities than Vigo — but you have to agree to make these investments. The Galician Hydrological Plan itself, adopted in February 2016, provides in Article 17, "the ecological flows in dry conditions". Do you know what Article 4 says?: "The Galician Hydraulic Administration may authorize non-compliance with the minimum ecological flows, leaving at least 25% of the circulating flow in the river. However, the Galician Hydraulic Administration may not authorize the dispensation when it considers that there are acceptable solutions to meet demands without accepting the ecological flows", which is the case; there are solutions without having to affect the river's ecological flows. By the way, the Galician Hydrological Plan itself includes an investment framework, an investment annex — I don't know why they make the investment annexes — which says: "period 2008-2015, supply actions in the Eiras-Vigo system, EUR 7 million". You didn't see a dog, a potato, as Mr. Feijóo said. "Period 2016-2021, supply in the Eiras-Vigo system, 20 million euros". They invest, agree with the Vigo Council and the state to make these investments, to do necessary works.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u133	I think we have already shown them our willingness to reach agreements on this issue. Instead of this water war, because there are some who like to move in turbulent waters and turbulent waters, because what we have to get to agreements, involve all society and involve all administrations, and once and for all solve a topic that has been known for fifteen years and which has not been remedied...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u135	...to the irresponsibility of the Council of Vigo and the Council of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u136	PSOE's amendment, please. Will you accept the amendment? Mr. Bará, will you accept the PSOE amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u137	We made a generous proposal to include it as an addition amendment, but here are two central issues, which are: not the transvasion and solving the Vigo problem and its area.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u138	Okay, perfect, that's it. How do you add? Are you going to add?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u139	We would accept it as an addendum, which the Socialist Group does not accept.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u140	All right. Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Dolores Toja Suárez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the elaboration and referral by the Government of Galicia to the Galician Parliament of a plan of action and concrete measures aimed at addressing the difficulties faced by the fisheries sector to promote its generational importance
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u141	There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group and one by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u142	To formulate the proposal has the floor to Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Mr. Pazos, how can you talk about "turbidity" when Mr. Ricardo Costa has just confessed that the Valencian PP was funding himself with black money! How can you come here to talk about "disturbity"! [[Applause]] Getting to the theme...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u144	Quiet, quiet! Quiet, please... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence, we're on another subject and Mrs. Toja is speaking. Let's respect her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u145	Yeah, now I'm about a minute away.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u146	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u147	Today we are bringing, from the Socialist Group, an initiative that we consider deserves all the attention of this House: the generational change in the sea sector — or, more precisely, the failure of this generational change, the absence of those who take the rents of more than 4,000 vessels that today have not guaranteed their continuity — of a sea sector that, as you know, is one of the most important in all of Europe, which has always been traditionally a central sector in the economy and in the society of Greece. The Farelo, of Muxia; the Baldomar Santos, of Camarinas; or Sons Romero and Temerario, of Fisterra, are examples of ships scattered from the long list of the last few years, longliners, flyers... all of them converted with a compensation of thousands of euros which is well below the economic activity they generated: jobs, economic activity, as we said, in coastal towns and multiple intangibles. The current situation is that the number of people affiliated with the special sea worker scheme at the end of 2009 was 24,630. By the end of 2016 it was 21.035, that is, 15% less. In the case of women, this number decreased by 22%, from 6,533 to 5,088. If we took the end data for 2017, the result would be even worse, since the number of affiliates dropped to 20,741, that is, almost 16% less. In addition, women are losing weight in the sea sector. If they were 27% of all affiliates before, now they're only 25%. And what about the situation of youth?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u148	Quiet, please. There's a lot of murmuring in the room.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u149	It's just that it's very difficult to concentrate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u150	Yes, I understand it perfectly for you. And besides, there's a very big whisper. That's why I ask the guests, if they can, to keep talking outside. Don't worry that your time will be compensated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u151	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u152	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. As we said, there is a reduction in the number of members of the sea regime. What about the situation of our youth? For up to 26 years the average of what young men and young women earn is not even equal to the minimum interprofessional wage. We're talking about 6,311 euros gross annually, and our youth isn't enough. Two out of three people between the ages of 18 and 35 still live in the family home, and there was a contract record with a duration of less than one week in boys and girls. So this is the current situation: more than 4,000 Greek vessels have no guarantee of continuity because there is no one to take care of, there are no people who want to continue in this activity, a youth in a situation of high precariousness and the regime of the sea that does not stop losing affiliates. What are the causes of this absence of generational change? The causes are multiple. On the one hand, the penosity of this profession itself, the hardness, the danger of the sea within, and also the lack of adequate rest to this effort, the long working hours, the long periods of family withdrawal or the failure of qualified professionals as well. A number of times have been proposed by the Socialist Group, such as bad weather insurance, security investments — specifically anti-fouling systems, so that, in the event of a disaster, ships can be kept in fleet, tracking systems, battery signalling systems. All of this would make this profession, with this high pessimism, in some way the situation would have improved. There is not enough economic compensation in relation to this effort. I mean, the costs that this activity generates don't have enough income in return. And this is because there are a few insufficient TACs, not enough quotas. Spain has a huge fishing capacity, but it doesn't reach even 10% of the coupons. It is combined with these insufficient amounts to mismanagement of fisheries closures, improvised closures which sometimes force catches to the sea, while the sector assumes an increase in the expenditure of the activity without sufficient aid, without the execution of the European funds, the EFF funds, of which the sector has been complaining because they are not implemented. Just a fairer distribution of quotas, a negotiation of agreements favouring the Galician fleet — we were saying yesterday in relation to Portugal — would generate greater stability in the sector. So, as we said, we have several causes, some associated with the very characteristics of the profession — penosity — and, on the other hand, the lack of security and the lack of economic compensation according to the effort made. And in this situation, what does the Government do? So we just saw in the 2018 budgets that, far from helping this situation improve, to reverse this situation, reduces the allocations for these games. They have a Welsh strategic plan for 2015-2020 that starts with a wonderful phrase that says, "Join the present and the future with discretion." Sounds good, sounds good, but we can't find a connection, since reality shows an uncertain future for the sea sector. Important games, as we said, that could reverse this situation come down in 2018; from bad weather insurance we already told you that they don't want to hear about it; investments in security, pending; signaling of bats, pending — depending on the year 2015 — and dredgings — and I won't get tired of telling you in this Parliament, about the lax dredging, for example — pending. All security issues when there is bad weather, when they have to leave their ports because they are not safe shelters, all that, increases the pessimism of this profession and, therefore, what is the Government doing? Or, rather, what is the government not doing? What then? What's the problem with this? The problem is that our country's demographic situation requires active measures that are fundamentally integrated into public policies. Between 2016 and 2017 we lost almost 11,000 people. Population between 20 and 64 years of age we lost approximately 16,000. Faced with the situation of depopulation in our country, it would be necessary to promote measures that prevent the younger people from emigration out of the community. But for that, we have to provide resources, we cannot reduce training, energy efficiency, ship modernization. Today it's not the same as 20 years ago, it's not even the same as ten years ago. New people were born and grew up surrounded by technology, don't imagine fishing if it's not with tools and with technology, they grew up surrounded by technology. So it's not understood that these budget cuts are diminishing. Women, nets, seamstresses, seamstresses must improve their conditions and rights so they can positively influence the number of workers. So there must be some pursued targets, a strategic design, on an issue that demands a long-range proposal, a firm proposal, leaving aside the partisan approaches and focusing on targets and operational instruments that create agreements so that this situation can be reversed. We need to change the policy of the PP, which are sunwarms, declarations of intentions. When there are commitments, resource commitments, they never accept. When there are resources, running and not running. Finally, encrypted measures and scheduled measures. Finally, as we told you, we're talking about the generational importance in the sea sector, but actually, as you see, today we're talking about a topic that affects other sectors, which is about the depopulation in Galicia, with whole villages empty coastal villages, in a legislate, as you say, rural villages. And finally, I remind you of the current situation: 16% has decreased the number of members of the sea regime — in the case of women, 22% — we have high precaution in our youth; the causes, as you know, are the pesosity of this profession, united, in addition, that there is not enough security and that there is no economic compensation proportional to this effort, and an act of a government that is not sufficient, that is not taking the problem seriously and that is not taking the necessary measures. So we need a 180-degree turn, a rotation that reverses this situation. For this reason, today, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we are bringing this initiative which urges the Government to draw up a plan which will be forwarded to Parliament — that is important, because we do not know if they do so — within six months, in which concrete actions and measures are being put in place to meet the challenges facing the fisheries sector in order to bring about their generational change. They have to commit themselves firmly — not with sun gifts, as we told them — with concrete measures, calendars, resources and their execution. And that's what we're thinking today. As we said in the speech, it is necessary to put aside ideology and seek consensus by looking at the sector, because relief, survival of more than 4,000 vessels and therefore the future of the sea sector is at stake. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u155	It will allow me, the Socialist Party, to propose this initiative, not to follow its recommendation and not to leave the ideology aside. I'm sorry, but precisely by the ideology of the People's Party, neoliberal, by the application of all regulations, and by attacking by sea and air for the benefit of large lobbyies and capital, that's why the sea sector is in the conditions in which it is. We're talking about measures and situations because there's an ideological project that, of course, does not bet by Galicia, an ideological project at the service of the great capital, at the service of what comes from Madrid, at the service of what comes from the European Union and, of course, an ideological project that has neither the head nor the heart nor the performances put in the development of a strategic sector in our country as the sea sector. And that's why we're in these conditions. And fishing in Galicia gives direct work to more than 40,000 people, it's 52% of the total state sector and 10% of the whole of the European Union. We are talking about bigger words, even in this context of harassment and overthrow. Because if we compared this data that I'm giving you, what was the data when the Spanish State joined the European Union, and with Galicia, we would almost cry. He has entered the European Union being a power and we are currently being the position I don't know how many. We are therefore talking about a strategic sector in the Greek economy and a huge potential for the future if the political conditions needed for its development were given. But that's exactly the problem. Every year we have bad news for the sector in Galicia, there is never good news from the European Union for the sector. And this also has an explanation. He has an explanation in political logic, which is that those who negotiate for Welsh fishing are always the Spanish Government, a government for which fishing is precisely not strategic. And always — what a coincidence! — we ended up being currency of change. For Galicia there are no mollusc laboratories, but it turns out that for Madrid there are other issues. We've always ended up being currency change. And of course, and there I agree with the Socialist Party Member, who has two basic conditions to ensure that there is generational relief, so that there are people who want to develop their professional activity in fishing. And it is that this is profitable, that it can be done in minimally dignified conditions, that it is profitable and that there is some stability, that people who are engaged in an activity have a little stability and know what will happen to us within six months, what will happen next year, and not be subject to some regulations that every year — almost every month — vary. We're talking about a sector that directly employs 40,000 people, two thirds of them in artisanal fishing. And it's precisely in artisanal fishing, which is that most sustainable fishing, that fishing that sets more population in our villages and therefore more job-generating, where that possibility of generational relief is most at risk. And this is given, first, because, whenever the common fisheries policy is renewed, there is no way to the principle of relative stability, which was already in force before the Spanish State entered the European Union and which keeps quotas for many States far above their possibilities while for Galicia each year they are smaller. There is a common fisheries policy that imposes measures even on artisanal fishing. And the Galician Government has exclusive powers in inland waters, the Statute for the Autonomy of Galicia, in its Article 27, states that fishing in rivers and other inland waters, the seafood, aquaculture, hunting and fishing in river and lake are exclusive competence in Galicia. And we see a government that has no intention of exercising its powers to defend this strategic sector — that it has neither had nor intends to. We see that as far as the maritime sector is concerned, since 2009, almost 300 permex has been lost, despite that promise from the advisor that he would multiply the permex. I mean, we see that there are specific conditions in the sector, of hardness, but basically what there is is a political position of a government that is not and is not expected, a government that preaches to the decisions of the European Union, preached to the decisions of the Spanish Government. We've just seen how a bilateral agreement with Portugal is signed and how our fleet has to fish in lower conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u156	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u157	...to the Portuguese fleet and how the German Government made no kind of pressure for this to be otherwise. With which we present a small amendment to this initiative of the Socialist Party, so that, in the matters of this plan which depend on the Union, they bring together resources; and then, of course, it would be necessary, in all these other matters, to have a government of course willing to engage in the defence of a sector, which unfortunately we do not have at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u159	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mrs. Toja said a sentence: that today is not the same as 40 years ago. I liked it, because that is to start by recognizing something, some things that you didn't recognize throughout this legislation, in which we have taken this legislation, in the 8th Commission because, when we're going to explain the fisheries policy, when we're going to explain the lines of work of the Sea Council in the 8th Commission, and we're always defending the GNP, this is a factor that I hadn't heard of today that you recognized. So that's already a pretty positive step for you to work on the line and in the direction that we have to go looking to the future and not looking to the past. You have touched three very important keys, which are security, modernization and generational change, the main objectives for which you have been the sea councillor working in Brussels these two days. He has been defending, in front of all the European Commissioners, the generational change here in Galicia, the modernization of the systems and ships of the Galician fleets and, of course, the improvement in security. The Council of the Sea is now working on these three factors. That's what we have to achieve and why we have to fight and work from this Parliament and from the German Government. And we, therefore, have seen an amendment that has some nuance to which you propose today in this House. Welcome, therefore, opposition gentlemen, to this problem that is about generational change, welcome because since the People's Party we've been working on this subject and doing the necessary management and work so that this is not a drama. I have to start by telling them that the data — speaking of data — are the real data, are that since January 2016 we have won in Galicia affiliated to the Social Institute of the Navy, and that the balance, as far as December 2017, is positive in 259 people. That's also a real data you made here, you didn't need that data. As the only reference we have to manage — which is before forty years — is the Bipartite period, between 2005 and 2009, we need to remind them that in those four years more affiliates have been lost than in the following eight, governed by the People's Party: 3,877 versus 3,866. So the fisheries policy of the People's Party, and the one that's been carrying out this particular sea councillor, is very positive and very beneficial to the sector. So they recapitate with their magic formulas that they sometimes come here, they don't turn their backs on the sea sector. Because if we did what they said to the naval sector, I don't know where we would be today, I don't know where we would be today. The Socialist European Commissioners representing Galicia in the naval sector, the only thing they did was to set up jobs and taxes. So the sector has been supported and today we have 27 ships in portfolios and possibly the creation of 1,500 jobs. And five years ago we just had to listen to the fallacies, the permanent criticisms and the magic formulas that wouldn't lead us to this outcome today. You speak of the shortage of qualified professionals. Yes, it's true, no one will deny that there is a need, a shortage, of qualified personnel. But it's not true that you haven't been dealing with this problem since the Council and that there are no training matches. Because we have to emphasize that since the People's Party is in government, since 2009, we have been concerned about this issue. And there have never been so many registrations in the centres that depend on the Council of the Sea. For example, for this course 2017-2018 there are over 500 students enrolled between the Maritime-Fishing Institute of Vigo, the Official nautical-Fishing School of Ferrol, the Official nautical-Fishing School of Ribeira and the Igafa. And that's what we have to include, in addition, the 2,200 students who received unregulated training in ports throughout 2017. So we have an increase of 197 percent. It's a problem that's being cut from the root. This Council of the Sea, this Government, these Members of the People's Parliamentary Group are working on that line. So we can't let you say here that we look elsewhere, when we're totally in the hands of the sector. As for the lack of sufficient fishing quotas, we have to tell you that, from 2009 to 2018, Galicia's share has increased by 80%, which has assumed an increase of 212.7 million euros of estimated value. That's true, that's true, because guidance and things vary, but this still stands, and we have to keep this sector up. And, as Mrs. Toja said, it doesn't fish today just like forty years ago. As for the increase in activity costs, I understand that they will also refer to gas oil, for example, which has kept the price since 2009, is the same price. And as for the sea budgets, which you say are reduced to formation, that's not true. The global amount for the incorporation of new people grows by 50%. Support is provided to buy boats for under 40 years of age, to reform vessels for under 30 years of age, for training in under 30 years of age. We want more sailors and sailors, we want to bring the help to the people of the sea so that that sector doesn't get rented and there's generational relief. The only thing you will see on the part of this People's Group and on the part of the Government of Greece is a commitment to the sea sector and, in addition, to put on the table and explain in Europe the need we have — as you said here and explained very well in your explanatory statement — of that generational relief. Therefore, we have seen an amendment which has a nuance on its text, which says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Government of Greece to discuss the problem of generation change with the sector in the fishing days that should take place throughout this year and to transfer the conclusions to the Galician Parliament within six months" — as you say — "as well as to continue with the concrete actions and measures that will enable the fishing sector to face the difficulties that it presents to promote its generational change". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u160	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Merlo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u161	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the increase in employment in the sector between 2009 and 2016 is paid with a negative balance of 3,595 people employed less in the sector, of which 1,445 are women. We add to this the increase in labour inequality in the sector, and we also add the administrative and fiscal pressure to which the sector is being subjected. Today, with a concentration of more than 63% of the population in the Galician coastline -- going to a greater proportion if we do this from the point of view of the analysis of the average age between 18 and 26 years old, with a higher population concentration -- we see that youth pose as an alternative for the future immigration long before other issues such as working in the sea sector, a sector that has been, from the point of view of employment, a very important support point for many years, even in those where our country has suffered tedious ship conversion. Many families have survived precisely because of the activity in this sector. That's not the case today, and the future looks like it's going to be even worse. We see with great concern how, after the budgetary debate and the approaches made to the draft of the 2018 Galician budgets that have not been accepted, we are again on a stage that is clearly de minimis for employment in the sea sector. I don't know if the statistics and the data you've seen here by Mrs. Egerich a moment ago would be able to defend them so vehemently in front of the sector itself, in a series of face-to-face visits. Because I think the sector with which you say they go hand in hand doesn't think the same thing. And the numbers say so. I don't know where these statistics come from, frankly. It seems to me, in a way, even disconcerting. In addition, we have to take into account another factor, which is the labour and equality of women in the fisheries sector. There are already laws and decrees in this regard, such as Royal Decree 849/2017 of 22 September, for example, that have even been incorporated into the theory — and I am speaking of theory — in a plan for gender equality in the fisheries and aquaculture sector 2015-2020, prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment, which unfortunately are not being applied either and which include, among other things, the adaptation of vessels to mixed crews and a series of issues that would facilitate a commitment for the equality and continuity of the sector's activity, taking into account this historical debt from the perspective of equality for women, whose role in the sector is beyond all doubt but which really remains without equal in many parts, especially in the area of fisheries. Consequently, this initiative, both in the need to facilitate means for generational substitution and in the need to seek equality in the composition of that substitution, makes sense. I wouldn't have heard this proposal that the Socialist Group is bringing today if the policies adopted were not misfocused and deepening on the destruction and dismantling of our fleet despite these aid. It would make no sense if the defence of the Union's government was not synonymous with the assimilation of continuous cuts in fishing quotas, which we say are rising. Nor would it have made sense if the target pursued was not the conversion covered by a sector towards other falsely sustainable models of exploitation. But this obviously doesn't stand for by any group. Therefore, for all this, it provides legal insecurity and questions the economic viability of the activity for those who invest their resources and their efforts in these professions, for it makes sense. And much more if we consider the professional future linked to the fisheries sector. I mean, we're seeing that the fishing sector is not being an engine or a reference for all that young population that lives on the coast and in which there is even a family tradition, an important economic bet by generations of their families. It's not your choice for the future. That's what's in danger, and that's what we're trying to do to deepen this little initiative a little bit. Moreover, today's reality is that the equality of a young man and a young woman is not guaranteed in order to compete in the occupation of a square in a fishing vessel. That is another matter on which I think it is important to deepen and that we have to tackle it urgently. The reality is that the fluctuation and decrease of quotas, and the defence of our fleet against other of the greatest size and importance of the European Union, does not help to naturalize this natural generational change. Even though they're working on it at the Junta, in recent years the Government has been completely unable to stop the continuous closures in the rivers in the activity of the Marishcan. It is also unable to guarantee optimal means of comprehensive sanitation of our waters in our rivers. It is totally incapable of curbing the mortality of certain species or the quantitative and qualitative decrease of so many other species. They're hard to solve. Obviously, a government cannot make questions that are technically often going beyond these issues, but it can have a certain kind of political will. That can't be an excuse to prolong the loss of competitiveness in the sector. It must be an excuse for budgeting the research and infrastructure needed to achieve it as soon as possible. We therefore understand from our group the need to support, within what is possible even for the Union, initiatives that are coming to provide security and continuity of the sector and that they seek to put the sector again as a solvent alternative for youth, and above all to show that there is a certain bet for the sector beyond the practices and policies developed in recent years, which seem to look at the other horizon quite different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u162	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u163	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know what data or what budget you came to talk about here today, I don't really know. But what I do know is that the initial aid to Thursday was last year of 500,000 euros, and this year was 315,000; in formation in under 30 was 800,000, and this year, 435,000; adversity insurance, nothing, this year did not appear, and last year was 200,000; in investments in energy efficiency, 185,000 euros, last year was 1.3 million. I don't know how they plan to guarantee generational change this way, I don't really know. I don't even know how they're going to come up here with the wrong data. [[Applause]] I don't know. It seems to me... at last... What's the point of saying that you're going to Brussels to talk about security if, for example, you've got the battle signaling plan pending since 2015? Unfortunately, we live in sinister conditions, they're happening. There was a loss of human lives. They don't run that important bat signaling plan -- at least you saw it as very important, very important. I also thank you for the class you gave us here. I see they're all in the same line as that of the councillor of Fairy, to consider all those who carry them against intellectual papalties. I see they all go along the same line, I see they do. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. You, as I tell you, come here to oppose the opposition, to speak of the data of the year 2009. He didn't pay attention to our initiative. Our initiative is about generational change, future, future! Don't keep talking about the year 2009, they're talking about the future, which is what I was saying. As for training, they also come here to talk about training. In 2016 there were 60 people admitted to courses and 120 — which is the double — on a waiting list. That's the data. That's your policy. Excuse me, your policy. These are the budgets: reduction. That's what you're going to amend us today: to continue with your policy. I don't know if you've been paying attention to the intervention before us, but here we clearly told them that they had to change, that they had to commit, that they had to compromise resources and that they had to run them, with concrete measures, encrypted measures, with time-bound measures. Just as they set up their amendment, we feel it, but we can't accept it. I remember the data: a 16% reduction in the sea regime, and 22% reduction in the case of women; and a youth in a precarious situation that will not be reversed in this way. As for the amendment of the BNG, we can accept it perfectly, we think it enriches our own. But I'm sorry about the PP intervention, because it seems to me that generational change doesn't matter either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u165	We therefore vote for non-law proposals. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Prado Cores. There are no amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the situation of saturation that the emergency services of the hospitals, as well as primary care, of Sergas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u166	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Egerique. Amendments to the Bloc Parliamentary Group and to the Socialist Group were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Carlos Enrique López Crespo and six other Members, on the follow-up by the Government of Galicia with the development of joint actions with other regions and fishing fleets of the experiences and knowledge obtained in relation to the problem of discards, with particular attention to their recasting and the transfer of demands to the European Commission for the adaptation of legislation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 18; abstentions, 12. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u167	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Chao. Amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales and the Socialist Group were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the actions that must be carried out by the Government of Greece to guarantee the student's right to autism spectrum disorder to an inclusive education in the public teaching system. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u168	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Gonzalo Trenor. The amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eleven other Members, on the actions of the Galician Union aimed at the construction of a health centre in the Santa Lucia market building, in the Falperra neighborhood, in the city of Coruña. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 12; abstentions, 18 The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u169	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Pierres. The amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted, and there is a deal with the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. Can you read it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u170	The truth is, on this occasion, I almost prefer you to read it because I don't have it here, I've made it easy for you. It was a simple clarification addition of the year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u171	Thank you. Yes, it is an addition amendment by which the People's Parliamentary Group amends and sets "to sink during 2018".
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u172	Actually, that's just it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u173	And the text of the amendment has been kept. Then we voted with the addition amendment, with this amendment. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and six other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia to carry out awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns on gender-based violence in rural areas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u174	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mrs Paula Vázquez. There's a transaction proposal. Can you read it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u175	Finally, there's only proposed transactions with the amendments to the PSOE, so it's the 9 points of the motion, but the 1, 2 and 8 are the ones that are traded with the PSOE. The text has already been passed to the House services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u176	All right. Let's vote, then, that deal. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. from In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to improve accessibility in all areas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u177	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Luís Bará. The amendment, as I added, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, was accepted. She was accepted, he said. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Another thing is that you say no. You had asked for a point vote. So, do you accept the point vote? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then everything remains as it was. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the project of water transvasion of the River Verdugo to the chorus of Eiras that is currently processing Waters of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 38; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u178	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Maria Dolores Toja. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted and the amendment of the German Nationalist Block Group is accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Dolores Toja Suárez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the elaboration and referral by the Government of Galicia to the Galician Parliament of a plan of action and concrete measures aimed at addressing the difficulties faced by the fisheries sector to promote its generational importance. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u179	I'm going to read them an institutional statement that brings me, according to the groups, with regard to the victims of the Holocaust. "On 1 November 2005, the General Assembly of the United Nations, at its forty-second plenary meeting, reaffirmed that the Holocaust, which resulted in one third of the Jewish population and countless members of other minorities being killed, will always be a warning to the whole world of the dangers of hatred, fanaticism, racism and prejudice. And he also decided to designate January 27 as the international day of the annual commemoration in memory of the victims of the Holocaust, all of them victims of Nazism, among whom are also Greek and Greek. The Holocaust is the result of a program of persecution, imprisonment and extermination carried out by Nazism that killed more than 6 million people. It was its source in the attempt to eliminate political and ideological dissidents and it came from a genocide that was related to the collaboration of the Franco-Francist dictatorship. He persecuted thousands of men and women who fled the Spanish state after the defeat of the Republic in 1939 and after the establishment of the Fascist regime. In particular, this Parliament would like to remind the more than 10,000 Spanish Republicans who ended up being deported to the Nazi camps by the collaboration of dictator Francisco Franco with German Nazism and Italian fascism. According to some historical sources, about 200 of them were originally from Galicia. And they died there or were released, but they were never able to return because the franchise dictatorship, which had previously withdrawn their nationality, denied them the right to return to their country of origin. For all this, the Galician Parliament echoes the statement by the General Assembly of the United Nations in which it rejected all denials, whether partial or total, of the Holocaust as a historical fact, and condemned without reservation—condemning that this Parliament also does—all manifestations of religious intolerance, incitement, harassment or violence against people or communities based on ethnic origin or religious beliefs, take place wherever they take place. The Galician Parliament notes with the United Nations General Assembly that the ignorance and disregard of human rights give rise to acts of abhorrent barbarism for human consciousness. The Galician Parliament, one more year, and in accordance with the letter and spirit of the Declaration of 1 November 2005, of the United Nations General Assembly, calls upon the United Nations to work against the possible outbreaks of racism, xenophobia and discrimination based on ethnic origin or religious beliefs, and citizens and their organizations, and to remain vigilant so that no more a regime like what the Holocaust has produced can neither sit between us nor anywhere in the world." Thank you very much for your attention. [[Assentment.]] We're still on the agenda. Now it's the turn of interpelerations. Interpellation of G.P. of En Marea, on the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogango, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the rise of tariffs in the tariffs of AP-9
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u180	Mr. Lago has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u181	Good morning. Counselor, Audasa is going to hit a world record, increase the rates of AP-9 four times in a year! They went up on January 1st, 1.9 percent because highways have secured by law that the rates rise the same as inflation; a right that pensioners do not have, but rather the companies on the highways. The second will be 1% for 20 years as a result of the November 2011 agreement between Minister Blanco and Audasa. The third shall be 0,9 % in all fees as a result of the 2013 agreement between Minister Pastor and Audasa. And the fourth -- from which we still don't know when or how -- by the agreement between Feijóo, the Serna and the Audasa. It's a scandal that goes up four times in a year the already abusive prices of AP-9! The accumulated increase will possibly be around 5%. Scan it, steal it, steal it, steal the toll. Counsellor, I'll let you choose the name you want. Audasa is a huge practical power, it doesn't matter who's in the government, it's her boss. He was able to hire Mr. Rajoy for Rande's pantomime on December 30th. The strategy of Audasa is unacceptable and therefore rejected by the vast majority of the people of Greece. An unacceptable strategy that can only be understood from the complicity of the rotating bipartisanism that has ruled the Spanish State. Audasa first managed to extend to the legal maximum, seventy-five, the concession period to exploit AP-9. We all know who it was: Aznar in 2003 gave him twenty-five more years to exploit us until 2048. And — you have to say — Audasa is the highway that has the largest concessional period in the entire state. So that you understand well, before the year 2026, you will complete the concessions of all the first-generation highways: the bids before 1976. All except one, which one? AP-9. Once it's been thirty-one years since AP-9 has completed its concession, the Greeks and the Greeks will continue to pay for the beaches of Audasa. Once the Audasa business was secured, it changed its strategy, and from then on, having the maximum legal period its strategy was to raise its rates by guaranteeing increases above the rest of the companies with agreements with the Ministry of Development. The most expensive beaches, counselor, on the worst highway in the state. Because Audasa is the company that has the largest number of claims filed by users, it is the company that has the lowest number of employees per mile and is, in Pontevedra province, the highway with the most tyrannicality. AP-9 accounts for 3% of the total users of the state motorway network — 3% of users — but has 19% of the claims submitted. A bad service that causes his work policy. Audasa is the company, Counselor, which has the worst personnel ratio per kilometer. Not between the worst, the worst, and not for a small difference. Audasa has 0.37 employees per kilometer, and the average of the Spanish highways is 1.05. The Audasa template would have to be tripled to have a ratio similar to the average state. Audasa is a round business for its shareholders, the formula is simple: being a monopoly that exploits a public concession to a friend government, with abusive charges and reduced costs. In the last 20 years Audasa has raised 2,344 million euros into fees, which have turned into 1,900 million euros — to an economist produces, at last, a certain step in terms of this figure — in cash flow, into profits before taxes and depreciations; out of every 100 invoiced 81 gross profit. In this room there are some entrepreneurs on both sides, 81%. of benefit on invoicing. Once it provides amortisation and pays for financial expenses, Audasa has won since 1997 1,181 million euros, this is net profit — net!—; in the pocket 50% of what he invoices. A company can only earn 50% of what bill works in a de facto monopoly regime, because this profitability doesn't correspond to a company that's in a competitive market. The Banco de España Balances Central says that the average profitability on sale, on billing of a company in Spain, is 7%. Audasa has a profitability that multiplies seven times, 700 percent, the average profitability of a company in Spain. I'm going to play a theoretical game. If Audasa had the same profitability, for example, that Indidex — one of the best companies in the world — could lower its rates by 30%. If Audasa had won the same amount as Index -- 14% over its billing -- it could have lowered the rates by 30%. That's why the fees are abusive and show that there is a wide margin so that Audasa can have a different tariff policy at lower prices. With the only condition of being a company that has a normal, well, not normal benefit, twice that of media companies in Spain and the same as one of the best companies in the world. Well, but the debate about the future of highways has to go beyond the fees, this is an urgent issue today, but it has to go further, because we've been paying taxes so long that we sometimes forget the anomaly that involves the existence of highways operated by private companies. That is, privatized sections of the state road network operated by large groups of the building banking lobby, which turn into a private business, which should be a public road transport infrastructure. However, situations such as the collapse of AP-6 by the snow remind us that they are privatising anomalies of the same type as schools and hospitals arranged with the public. They are public-owned infrastructure that the State privatizes through a concession. Private business exploiting public services, because mobility is a right more than citizenship, and the state has an obligation to provide it. There's some positive news, and it's that 2018 opens up the possibility that we end this anomaly. In 2018 the state has to rescue the 600 kilometers of Aznar radials, which are already public. Between 2018 and 2021 there are 1,000 kilometres of highways — the first to A-6, which I suppose your Government will not have the shame of privatizing again after the collapse of the snow — that they become public. And that's where we have to put our proposals and ideas about AP-9, which are synthesized into an idea: recover AP-9 for the public. Because we're not just talking about abusive fees that transform the exploitation of a concession into extortion to a country. We're not just talking about the poor quality of the service that Audasa's service makes the highway with more user complaints, nor about the insulting management for citizenship, with queues at the barriers of the cabs caused, partly by the unacceptable labour policy of the company, which has reduced its staff profile to 150 people in their last three years, even being the company with the worst ratio of jobs per kilometre of the entire state network. That is an urgent debate, necessary, we propose. But we have to go further, because we have to debate how we solve this anomaly which means that the main artery of Galician transport is exploited by a private company with market logic and not of general interest. That is, it pushes the maximization of benefits about the general interest of citizenship. That rescue scenario of Aznar radials and recovery for the public, because they win the concessions and open the stage to end the absurd situation that an investment fund housed in New York is the owner of the concession to exploit the AP-9, the main articulation route of our country. In that sense, Counsellor, we synthesize these ideas in five questions — which you know in the interpellation — and which I synthesize in two: what will the Council of Galicia do in front of the robbery at the armed toll that this Audasa policy entails? And secondly, why would you refuse to do a study on viability and the price of rescuing AP-9 for the public?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u182	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u183	Good morning. Thank you, President. Well, I see you've prepared Mr. Lake for your intervention by reading today's press, so give it back to the crowd and you'll see, "False the Star Plan of the Tides to cancel municipal concessions." So, management lessons I think very few. Well, give it back to the sheet, as it prepares today's intervention with today's press. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u184	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u185	Therefore, to say, of course, our proposal is never the rise of the rates. I appreciate it when you bring Parliament back today to speak about AP-9, which I had the opportunity to do last December with your colleagues in the Nationalist Block of Galicia. And I think we all agree that it's a fundamental artery in Galicia. It talks about where 60% of the people live, 50% of the population uses this highway. So it's an appropriate initiative to clarify some questions, to make some nuances of what you've moved today, that in some matter you've moved I think you're quite wrong. Recent issues related to the AP-9 motorway, because the AP-9 capacity expansion works. On December 30th, the Rande Bridge was put into service, an additional third lane in each direction expanding its capacity. It is to strengthen road safety, 56,000 vehicles a day running through that truce, and that is to be strengthened — that is €190 million that I have subjected to the extension of the Rande Bridge — by the highway of Morrazo, which is running the Galicia board via budget, free of charge, with 55 million euros from this German Government. This will entail the greatest transformation of mobility in the region of Vigo and Morrazo. Afterwards, a few days later, Santiago's expansion was put into service, which you know for sure is a free circle of toll, the circumference here in Santiago, 8.5 kilometers. There was added a rail or, in a few truces, two additional routes between Santiago-north and Santiago-south, along with the Sigüeiro link, because 80 million euros for this performance. Consequently, the enlargement of the AP-9 which is in service and important investments of enormous importance for mobility, and like all the actions, Mr Lago — you are an economist — knows that they have to be paid. And to pay them there are different alternatives, and the surprising thing is that in moments of economic kindness, when budgeting was three times as much as these years, a government that makes left-wing the truth is that it has adopted the most serious option for the Greeks and prejudicial to Galicia. He decided and authorized to finance these AP-9 enlargement works with the upstream of the fees. So that government was what armoured -- those left-wing governments called armored -- that rise from the highway's fee to finance these works, signed at a few hours, almost, of the elections, and authorized an extraordinary increase of 1% accumulating each year. 1% cumulative each year and paying -- you're an economist -- 8% the Audasa of interest did. So, I think you, I'm sure, need no further explanation, since you're an economist, but so there's no doubt about it. IPC increases like all highways in the state, and thanks to the White Minister for 20 years to that part of the IPC each year increases 1% cumulative: in 2018 1%, in 2019 1% of what was increased in 2018, in 2020 1% of what was increased in 2019, and in 2020... so twenty more years. And above all, that percentage of financial expenditure, which is to offer you a fixed-term deposit of 8% annually. We want the Greeks to have that warehouse, then! So we're talking about a ruinous proposal for Galicia, round to Audasa, and that it will transfer that responsibility to the Galician Union — which it is not and it is not the one that has taken that decision — since it does not seem right to me, at all. Criticize any measures. I don't know if you want the neighbors of Pontevedra and Vigo who have that 50% grant on the trip to go lose that subsidy, but of course, what's obvious is that who tied up the interests of the dealership and who shielded that increase in the fees to pay for the works of expansion was not this Board of Galicia — and you know well — but it was a government that calls itself left-wing. And, of course, since the Council of Galicia, what we have been defending is — and we will continue to defend — that the works are not financed by taxes, but are financed by State budgets. And we also defend that these increments were not applied before those works were finished, because there are other formulas. And, Mr. Lago, I've said it many times and I repeat it again: this German Government doesn't like the beaches, of course he doesn't like the beaches. And shades of his intervention. In AG-57 and AG-55, motorways of title of the Galician Union, it was this Government the only and the first that sanctioned the displacements, the bonuses to reduce the cost, to use daily these highways, which are of the lowest rates in Spain; AG-57 is the first lowest in all Spain and AG-55 the third lowest in all Spain. And you know perfectly well that in times of extreme economic crisis this Government of Galicia has executed and made available to all the Greeks 200 kilometers of high-performance routes without a single toll. That's what this Greek Government has done: in the worst years of economic crisis, we have increased 67% of the free toll roads in Galicia. From 313 kilometers, we moved to 521 kilometers of high-speed free toll-free routes. A situation that was alarmingly opposed to the two-party government, which at that time was much more economic good because many fewer miles of roads; but even more, we were left with an inheritance of 1,500 million euros as a result of those concession contracts materialized for years with more economic good than that which this Government had to manage. So at the Cunta de Galicia we bet for works via budget. I think we have very recent examples, we have the Morrazo highway, the best formula is to run it through budget, through phases, and the Morrazo highway is already funding it to the Galician Union: 55 million euros, budget and free of charge, without resorting to the concessional regime. We therefore defend and call for future enlargements and future action in relation to AP-9 not to be costed by the rise in tariffs at the rate and to be carried out by State budgets. And that is what we addressed at yesterday's meeting in the bilateral commission between Together and the Ministry of Development, and so we ratified it in that commission of AP-9, that in the future all works related to AP-9 are financed by State budgets, not to affect the fees of these new actions, but through State budgets. We can talk about Alfonso Molina, for example. When we were able to have this project definitively and not to have any change of criteria, or that we did not once again pose the tides of Podemos da Coruña a skating clue, as they suggested, for Alfonso Molina, because he was able to bid Alfonso Molina through the general budgets of the state. The orbital link in Santiago, who knows it's a very important act to connect directly to the future highway of Lugo. Fundamentally, the approval of the State's budgets to bid for this action that we have already begun, the Ministry of Development has already initiated the action, I hope that they will support the State's budgets in order to be able to make these AP-9-related infrastructures and that they will not again be imputed to the increase in fees. And the truth is that you were commenting on the future, but that after six years there are those who want to also ride in the car and say that now the ministry — which is already the works paid and finished — takes on the cost of those works of the past. Of course, you can't be in Mass and repeating, therefore, from the first meeting in Galicia we will continue to work and we won't conform to the maximum, which of course is the transfer of AP-9, and I think it's fair to acknowledge the work of the Board in the last year, which we have made a great deal of progress on that commission with voice, and we've managed to get these 400 million euros that the Bipartite has assigned to stop paying them to the Greeks and pay them alone the Ministry of Development. So let the ministry do the AP-9-related actions and we will continue to work on the bilateral commission between Junta and the Ministry of Development. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u186	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Lago Peñas has the floor, in his reply by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u187	Mrs. Vázquez, why are you messing around? I mean, I'm doing a white interpellation, let's say, talking about highways and you're telling me about newspapers. And then that leads me to talk about newspapers. "Ricardo Costa confesses that the PP financed with money from entrepreneurs." Let's talk about newspapers. You go out on the next page of your journal, you go out of this, and I think some of the companies, presumably, are engaged in the management of highways tollage. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Let's go to ours, Counselor, let's go to ours. I absolutely share your criticism of the 2011 agreement, you're absolutely right. Everything's right! Why don't you apply that logic to the rest of the agreements? The 2013 agreement or the agreement that just signed Feijóo with De la Serna and with Audasa with its agreement yesterday. Why will it be in the future that the Ministry of Development assumes the works, assumes the release of taxes, in the future, but not today in Round it? I've failed an idea, Counselor, I'll try to do it again. I say who has to bear the cost of works and tax releases is not – what you do – the rest of the users of highways, nor is it the rest of citizenship paying taxes for the State to finance these public works. Counselor, you can't see him, but I'll try to explain it again. The abusive profit margin of Audasa, who has an insured business managing a public concession monopoly until the year 2048. Audasa cannot earn 50% of her billing, Audasa has to have a different tariff policy that frees fees in the exact sense of that word, that frees taxes, not that she transfers the fees to the rest of the users or transfers the fees to the rest of the citizenry. The abusive margin the company has. Let me do a little exercise. Going up 1% of the fee to release, for example, the Roundup is going to give the company 1.4 million euros, 1% of what it's billing, 1.4 million euros. As Audasa earns half of what he's billing, 700,000 euros. But besides, it's that Audasa, if she releases the toll, doesn't have to have employees, doesn't have maintenance and, therefore, with that measure, Audasa earns a million euros. Presuming in the country saying that a piece of toll is released when what is actually done is that the whole of citizenship supports that over-cost and that the company saves the worker and maintenance, that's what it is? Counsellor, what I'm proposing to you is something different, is that your Government has the courage to sit in front of that speculator and negotiate a discount on the rates, against its margin, which is a normal company, which earns the same as Indtex, 14% of the billing. Do that, for that reason, we have to have courage, determination, ability to convince; but to take and release the payoff of Round it by raising the rate to the rest of the Greeks, what does it deserve? You don't force Audasa to have that deal, Audasa is delighted with that agreement, as she's been with the change, and she's right again the advisor, when she's paid the release of the payout of the boat, enchanted, takes out the workers, takes out the cabins, collects the same and insured by the state. A second idea, because I don't want to... I'd like to hear your opinion. The 600-kilometre radials, Aznar scam, have to be rescued by the public, 600 million euros. Franco's highways, let's say, those granted before 1976, end in 2021 their concessional period. What are we going to do? What will the government do? Are you going to bid the radials back to keep them, their cousins, their friends who caused that model to break? Counsellor, late January ends the concessional period of AP-6. Will I grant again to Iberpistas, the guilty — according to the minister — of the collapse of the highway by the snow?, will you again be the operator of that concession? These are the elements. I'm done with an idea. There's a public offer, you know it by buying Itinere, a known public offer, Global via. It offers for Itinere — it is negotiating a price for Itinere — EUR 1 billion. All over Itinerus, which is AP-6, and many more kilometers on other farms, 1,600 million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u188	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u189	How much will it cost to build A-57? How much does it cost us all the highways that, in your opinion, and it's true, the Government of Galician Unity has made them born of AP-9 and that we pay with peas in the shadow? Is it not possible for the Greek Government to consider actually demanding that the state should recover to the public AP-9 and that we should end up with that cop that today makes Audasa about the Greek citizenship?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u190	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Close this interrogation. Counsellor for Infrastructure and Living.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u191	Mr. Lake, good afternoon. I don't know why he leaves so far with the press, because we have press in the Coruña. "The city council buys two floors for social use to an end of tides." So don't go so far, we have press here in the Coruña. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What the Galician Council got yesterday was that the Ministry of Development...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u192	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u193	...had ratified the firm commitment that the new works...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u194	Quiet, please. They don't cross there because they bother. If they're on a cross over there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u195	Thank you, President. What the Galician Union achieved on yesterday with the Ministry of Development was to ratify a firm commitment that all new works related to AP-9 — you don't like, you will want to impact them on the fee, we don't bet on that model, we don't bet — to take account of state budgets and no longer with fees to the fees and users. That was the bet of other governments, financing Santiago and Vigo's enlargement works, and the truth is that it's going to be the fundamental reason for the increase in the price this year 2018, and you're sure you know it. At yesterday's meeting we transferred to the ministry a strong social demand, a strong social and business demand from southern Galicia, which is the elimination of the peage between Vigo and Roundola, — which you seem to dislike — but that demand, accepted by the Ministry of Development, allows us to equate the users of Roundola and Vigo with the same system that is working today. Santiago's Circulation knows you're free to pay, in Fene is also free to pay, in Lalin too; for it's the same system. Therefore, it seems, Mr. Lago, that you do not share that the neighbors of Roundla and Vigo do not have this equalization to the circumference of Santiago and Fene. So, we follow up on that AP-9 commission, which we consider to be useful, and what is truly surprising is that we want to blame the Board of Decisions that we did not make at the Galician Board, a decision that is not new, known, of course, six years ago in the Official State Bulletin, adopted and signed by the Socialist Government of Rodríguez Zapatero. And we, from the German Government, have responded to our decisions, our actions, not other acts. So let me also clarify and nuance some other questions. The biggest benefits of AP-9 were in 2005 and 2011, so Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero ruled. Nor is it true that AP-9 is the most expensive of all states. If we take all the truce and itineraries of AP-9, it's certainly under the middle of the beaches. We don't like the fees, and you know that in the middle of the economic crisis, we made 200 kilometers of high-speed routes free of charge, but the truth is that this data doesn't twist it and tell the truth. Look, the peas seem to rise by the People's Party, and that's not true. I think there's evidence that it's not a consequence, and even less of the Government of Galician Union. So, let me think about how much the rates of AP-9 went up in 2009, 2008, 2007? because when I ruled a government that was called left-wing. And look at them going up, look at them going up, by 2009 a 4.49%. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let me do my speech and explain, so that those who are listening to us may see the truth and know everything that has happened and what may happen with AP-9. So it was a socialist government that shielded that 1% of the annual cumulative that left us that mortgage, a serious decision that we do not want to repeat again, and that is why we demand that the central government make the new enlargements from the general budgets of the state. Therefore, responsibility; I expect them not to condemn Santiago being without orbital link and can bid with state budgets. And I think that with that AP-9 commission, we managed to make it really useful, saving 400 million euros from the pockets of the Greeks, and we managed to be the ministry and Audasa, who take over the payout of Morrazo and Barcala, who was the Bipartite who forced the Galician board to finance 7 million euros a year. And we went on, nine years later, with the defeats of the two-year government. Of course I do! At yesterday's meeting, we waited for different formulas to subsidise that Vigo-Redendela. We think it's a fair claim. And we from Junta will continue to defend the Greeks, but not with demagoxia, not with banners, not with what we're going to do, and as soon as it's impossible to do so, but with responsibility, and with alternatives and with solutions. And, as I told you, the biggest increase in AP-9 enlargement is as a result of this real decree of 2011, when the budget was triple that of now. And from the German Government we fight because Vigo and Round it have a free circle of beaches. A few weeks ago his group supported a non-law proposition here with the People's Party in connection with Vigo's grant and Round it up. When he voted, wasn't it true, was it positioned? Was it to be well? Do you think that you have no right to a Circulation free of toll like Lalin or Santiago? Was that vote that you did an initiative to release the toll, a fair claim that we were able to ratify with the Ministry of Development? Of course, they tell the truth, and I ask them to be kind and serious. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u196	Thank you, Counselor. Da Paula Vázquez Verao's appeal and 13 other members of the G.P. in Marea, on the policy of the Union in the field of social services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u197	Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u198	We will try, as always, to formulate this plea with care and responsibility. Social rights of paper. So it qualifies the Social Services Development Report — developed by the State Association of Social Services Directors and Managers — the public system in general of Galicia's social services, the Public System of Union and municipalities that measures this index, the development of the structures and budgets of this system, taking into account a number of indicators that have to do with rights, budgeting or coverage, thus remaining, in the state as a whole, our country in the third ten. In addition, we also have data from the Imserso in relation to the situation of the older people in 2016, which confirm this low social coverage panorama and show, in this case, that we are the second autonomous community with the highest payout in the services. For us, for In Marea, it's evidence that the social investment of the Union is insufficient. First of all, because we have to take into account the social situation that the inequalities have worsened during the crisis, but also at the relative level. And it takes place in an overall context of the collapse of the budget of the Union in the whole of the Greek economy, because despite the fact that in 2014 — as we have reported on numerous occasions — an accist phase of the economic cycle begins, despite the fact that in 2018, the budget of the Union exceeds some EUR 7 billion in 2009, the budget of the Union is below EUR 10 billion, and they represent only 14.8 % of GDP, compared to the 18.4 that represented the year Feijóo arrived in the Union. This is in the context of the brutal cut in public spending both in Junta and in the municipalities, increased in 2011 with the express reform of the Constitution, increased in 2012 with the Budget Stability Act, and are policies that are — they were — they were called austerity and that go contrary to the needs of the social majority, because social investment is cut in Junta and municipalities, but also in municipalities, because they approve that law that limits their ability to implement social policies, social investment is reduced — they said — when the rate of unemployment increases. As employment today is the main factor in the inclusion of our societies, the result, of course, is social deprotection. We will repeat once and for all that the crisis has been used as an excuse for reducing the weight of the public sector in the economy and for unfortunately consolidating a social model of inequality. There's this recent Intermon report, which we're not going to mention anymore, but if we're going to focus on the absolute predominance — then we're going to break down one by one of the different elements of coverage and of the Greek social services — of the private sector, in the third-year residence sector in Galicia. Here we can link to the previous interpellation, private business with public services. That's the People's Party model. Thus, the investment in social services per capita and year in the whole of the autonomous and local Welsh Administration in 2016 was 274.91%, less than it had registered in 2011. It's quite below the average of the state, 339.69. Again, the pre-crisis levels do not recover, the scam, but still persisting a situation of 20 per cent of the population at risk of social exclusion — which is structurally already, unfortunately — 4 per cent of the population in severe poverty, families that do not reach the end of the month more than half, more than half of the families claim that they cannot reach, a fifth of the households cannot afford any extra expenses, this social reality, as we have always said, is more negative for the women of Greece, which, in addition to precisely, are the ones that mostly take care and meet the needs that this lack of social services does not arrive. So, seeing the GDP as a whole, investment in action and social promotion is just going from 1% to 1.15. It's true that your advice is the only one that has slightly increased your budget, 0.15 considering GDP as compared to 2009. But here we have to say that it is particularly harmful for social protection — as we have said, which means employment for social protection — the cut in employment promotion policies, which have fallen more than twice as much as social policies have increased; they have fallen by 0.35% less than GDP. They represent, however, 0.35% less of GDP than in 2009. So our country is the worst job evolution in the state as a whole, and it's also one of the worst unemployed that comes out in this index that measures the development of social services. Since I'm running out of time, I'm going to analyze one by one the indicators that analyze this index. First of all, in the per capita ratio of workers/ technical workers in social services is one of the few indicators in which our country presents better data than the whole of the state. This report does not take into account the fact that there has been tremendous cuts in public personnel and the fact that the Social Policy Council — in which the labour registers in the various centres are highly adjusted — has accumulated nearly half of the work accidents in the past few years, and nearly half of them are due to over-earning; 41% of the low-employment accidents in the United States have been due to this cause. They will then have the opportunity to support a bill of tide calling for the reforms to be repealed, too, because of that crisis scam that has been approved to cut public staff's rights. In addition, it must be borne in mind that Home Help Service is a very precarious sector, when it is privatized and highly feminized. In the dependency, slight improvement compared to 2012, but totally insufficient and far away from the state average under potentially dependent population coverage, 6.4 % in Galicia compared to 8.5% in the state as a whole, data from the Imserso. In addition, dependent people earn 25% of the benefit in our country, about 60 euros a year on average from the state average of 43%, when we have both the pensions and the wages of the lowest in the state. Thus, recognized people, but who don't have any kind of benefit, are still in 18.9%. Another fact, for example, that shows inequality with respect to the rest of the State is the average public expenditure per dependent person attended, which in 2016 was EUR 6,041, EUR 791 less than the state average. We could continue to name some features, we stop at teleassisción, which is one of the benefits that it does grow in the set of benefits that Joina provides on the dependency, but, of course, it is one of the low-cost qualified benefits, and yet the extension of teleassistion is much lower than that registered in the state as a whole, because the percentage of older than sixty-five years that receive this service was in 2015 of 2.74 % compared to 8.89 % state. This, in addition to the fact that in our country there are about 120,000 older people living alone, is clearly a negative indicator. Minimum rents of insertion, the worst coverage has all over the state. Risga was only 6.1% below the poverty line in 2015, compared to an average of 8.7% across the state. He just released that decree that won't correct the serious risks. First of all, the lowest counties in the state, and I don't think they're correct given the policy of recent years of risk incapacity as an element of social inclusion, because they don't properly connect with employment functions. Public residence places for older people, the coverage rate is much lower than the rest of the state. The residential square ratio for every 100 people aged sixty-five or more is 3.2 versus 4.3 of the state average. In this issue, as we have already said, it is found in a privatization model, because our country is the autonomous community — we are now champions — with the highest percentage of private squares in the whole of the third-year old residence squares, 67%. It's a model issue, because in the state as a whole the public squares go from 50%. And these private squares, in addition, cost 8% more, 8% more a private square in Galicia than a square managed directly by the Union. It's true, the biggest people in Greece pay less than half in the state for a square in these residences, but it's clearly betting Junta for a privatization model. There are still 1,700 people on the waiting list, the big star bet is the residences in the 7 cities in 2018, and the budget doesn't reach 1 million euros, we don't know when those residences in the 7 cities are going to be, but it's just 900 squares. This situation has to be added, as we have always pointed out, to an unequal spread in the territory of public squares, something particularly serious in Lugo and Ourense, where in these older provinces the situations of concert of squares predominate. I hear a lot of noise, but now that I've only got one minute left, I'll be finished without anybody's attention. Well, help home for people over the age of sixty-five. The coverage index reaches the state average, in the service intensity at half a month is higher. What we've always commented on here, also with regard to this service, is that we're prioritising a model of help in the home merely to help the household's tasks, in view of the development character of personal autonomy that this service should have, but we're also the Welsh and Welsh people that we pay most for this service, 45% of the annual cost, which is twice the state average. As there is little time left, we are going to go, for example, to the family reception of minors, which over the total number of receptions is approaching the state average, but at this point it is necessary to point out that family reception and, in general, all policies of minors in the Union are highly privatized, and assuming private entities and social initiative programs that must be Join Galicia. As for the ratio of squares residences for people with disabilities, they are low both the state average and the Galician, and here they accumulate needs and promises, which I hope will not be the way to become unmet pledges, such as the Attention Center for Persons with Functional Diversity of Ourense, or the full functioning of the Cegadi. And in relation to squares in reception centres for women victims of male violence, in relation to the number of women with legal protection orders, only 10% of these squares are reached against 14.7 % state. Inadequate in both cases. Finally, the data set, which is already over, leads us to say that the level of social deprotection in Galicia is scandalous, taking into account the social situation and the inequality that has worsened with the crisis. So our alternative is the significant increase in social investment, in what has to do with the Union, and also the derogation from the rules that prevent the municipalities from spreading their policies as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u199	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Vázquez Verao, ladies and gentlemen. The maintenance and strengthening of the Greek welfare system is undoubtedly a commitment that binds all present to this House. A commitment that I want to tell you is an important commitment by the Government, and it is a commitment by the President shared with the whole of society. That's why almost three years ago the council was born precisely the counsellor I say, a councillor who tries to get dialogue and collaboration, as well as coordination, the three "C" — which are so important in social matters — to preside over our action. The commitments — as I have stated on many occasions and as you are now — cannot only be words. Especially those social commitments, but they have to be based, indeed, on budgetary impulses. One of the objectives of the creation of the council was not only that, precisely, a councillor, as it is valued in the DEC index, if he is in charge of social policy matters, but also that at a time of economic recovery we could allocate those greater public resources, those greater economic resources, precisely to the families that need it most, to the people and families who need it most. And that's what we're doing, what's been done in difficult times and with much more intensity since the recovery of public accounts in 2015. Galicia will have for the third consecutive year — we are having expansion budgets in 2018 — of EUR 9,478 million. This is the highest budgetary level since 2010, consolidating the growth stage of the budgets initiated in 2016. The general budget of the Galician Union this year will increase by 2.9%, and the budget of the Social Policy Council will increase by 9%. So we are tripled economic growth for social policy with regard to all self-government public expenditure. You're talking to me about your interpeleration of gross domestic product, about the growth between real and estimated GDP. So look, the real and estimate of GDP is between 2015 and 2018 an increase of 10.5%, I say, estimated, because we don't have the 2018 data. The increase in social expenditure in Galicia, of expenditure managed by the Social Policy Council, is 25%, so we have an increase in gross domestic product by more than 250%. In other words, at worst we duplicate the growth of gross domestic product. In this case, this report summarizes the growth of the Autonomous Community and the growth of local corporations. The growth of the Autonomous Community of Social Expenditure is EUR 141 million, to which we will then have to add the growth of local corporations, but I would also like to stop for a moment in this data, because I can also give you the data of the financial increase that the Autonomous Community, in order to provide better social services, is transferring to local corporations. In 2016, the first year of the existence of this council, we increased our transfers to social services to the municipalities by 15%, and in the following year, by 9% in 2017. So we are working very actively in that the municipalities too, just like us -- because this is not a subject of the Union or of the municipalities, this is a subject of all -- they can improve their social policies. So, I'm telling you, a lot of peace with regard to the fact that we, precisely that economic growth, that increase in gross domestic product, are devoting much more to social policy than in other territories of Spain. Because look, most of those data from the DEC index that are being analyzed, which is an index that I mean is very interesting, very important, that is an incentive for us, in order to be able to improve in many of the indicators, are referred to the data of the year 2015, specifically those of the financing and the investor effort are of the year 2016. Many others, like the ones I'm going to comment on below, those you've referred to quite a lot, are from 2015. All the dependency data you just gave here is December 31, 2015. And you know, like all members of this House, that we're on December 31st. Sorry, the latest official data are from December 31, 2017. With regard to local corporations, I don't really have time to give you growing data on the social policy costs of cities. I won't do it, because, I say, this is everyone's subject. I'll give you some data on December 31st, which you know perfectly well, on December 31st, 2017. We don't have the dependency beneficiaries you said, we have 55,370 beneficiaries, a ratio of 82,36%. Tell me to converge, you tell me in your initiative to converge with the state media. The state average is 75.4%, is that we are 7 points above the state average, how are we going to converge would be going down, and we want to go up, because we are not satisfied either, nor with the average of autonomous communities throughout Spain. We're not satisfied because our aspiration is not to be above average, our aspiration is to be the best, that Galicia is also the best community to care for its elders. Of the DEC data you reproduced in this House at that time, on December 31, 2015, we were the tenth autonomous community in attention. At this moment we are the fifth of all Spain. We go ahead of Balearics, ahead of Castela-A Mancha, front of the Basque Country, front of Navarra, front of Madrid, front of Cantabria, front of Aragón, front of Estremadura, front of Andalusia, front of Cataluña, front of Rioxa and front of Canarias. So, I say, we do not aspire to converge, we aspire to achieve the goal of legislation in 2018, for which it will be very important not only the budgets of the Galician Union, which are already known and which have an imposing increase in attention to dependence, but also the State budgets. Then I'm told, in fact, about the Home Help Service; that data, I insist, is also very out of date. Look, in the last statistics of Imserso Galicia's attention ratio is 32%, the state attention ratio is 16%. So we're double the payout ratio in the home help service. As for squares, we have a very imposing increase, a very important increase in downtown squares by day, in old residence squares, Alzheimer's centers, disability squares, and also in residential libraries, so that people can go to the residence they want, and in squares by day centers. Specifically, the increase in bookholds linked to homes of major and day centers, between 2015 and 2017, is 41%. So, an important reality, that's why I'm not going to tell you about the projects, which as you said we have them, and we're going to do them in this legislated new public squares in major residences, and new public squares in disability, which we're going to do. He also told me about the minimum income, the income, in this case, of social integration of Galicia, because the other municipal incomes are science fiction; those we have in Galicia, fortunately, are those of the Autonomous Community. It also gives me a data from the year 2015. But look, between 2015 and the 2018 budget, we have a 30% budget increase. I'm telling you, in this case, the triple increase in gross domestic product, because we, Mrs. Vázquez Verao, want to reduce social inequalities, and that's done with public investment, and that makes that with larger budget margins we're able to reach more people in a better way. So we'll keep working, but I'm already saying that, fortunately, Galicia data from 2018 have nothing to do with data from 2015. We are in the right direction, we know that we still have much to do, and I hope and desire is the collaboration of all parliamentary groups, of all administrations to continue on that objective, that Galicia is a place where its corporate policies shine. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u201	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u202	They repeat that they shift the growth of the economy to budgets, but the reality is that I have signaled to them, and with regard to gross domestic product the fall of what the public sector represents of the Greek economy is 18.4% in 2009 and 14.8%. It's a matter of modeling, reducing the weight of the public sector as a whole. I'm not just referring to your advice, and I've already said that, besides, what is important, which are also employment policies, which are important for social protection, were one of the ones that have been cut down most rum in the budgets of the Board. As for the dependency data, I've signaled these were precisely those of the Imserso, and you confirmed me, but the unattended people are 18.9%, not just the DEC index data. And there is still a lack of commitment to dependent people, and also to their State Government, which has not just assumed 50% of the funding of the dependency, which was one of the issues that suffered the most with these cuts framed in that general policy of false austerity. It qualifies them as paper rights for the Greek social rights, because there is a very important legal legal order, but budgets, as I said, are not accompanied by what should be, because the budget alternative of En Marea, like this report, indicates that about 176 million euros would be needed for social services. We propose an increase in the investment of the Board in just around 180 million euros for its council, among which we place an important amount, precisely, for senior residences already in 2018, because reality is there, the reality of the model by which we bet on the Council of Galicia. And the squares where they grew up were in private residences. The model of the concert is what you bet on. I'm going to repeat the data again — you didn't tell me they were wrong — almost 70% of the available squares are in private squares. He didn't even point out to me that it seems to him that it is more difficult to keep a private square paid with public funds that manages it directly through the board. It's a model question. See when this 7 residency program is in the 7 cities, but with the budgets this year, you can hardly meet that commitment in 2018. Besides -- I repeat -- they don't arrive to cover the waiting list. As for Risga. Risk — it is true — has grown over the past few years, it has grown because the people who needed access to this benefit have grown; it has grown because inequality has grown; it has grown because — since we speak about data, from what their advice grows — the purchasing power of families, in general, in real terms, has fallen by 20% since 2009; therefore, it is obvious that this program has increased. The risk budget — however, in 2018 — will only rise about EUR 5 million over 2017, falling under the final budget that Risga had in 2017, following the budgetary changes. We don't know how with this budget — which is equal to 2017, more or less — if you're going to be able to develop the decree on the transition and employment of Risga, which is one of the news that brings the decree, which, in fact, should already be prompted by this issue in 2014 taking into account what the law says. As for the municipalities, there were programs that increased and there were programs that came down. There are still insufficient funds and, above all, there is still a regulatory framework that limits them. And municipal social incomes aren't science fiction, they're incomes that come to a lot of families, which aren't covered by Risk. They're rents that are still a precarious model, because we bet on another different model. And we will surely have occasion this year to present a different bill to you for a real social income that is really inclusive. For which, by the way, of En Marea we have already presented for this project, of starting a decent minimum income in the Greek community, 100 million euros more in these budgets that you have refused. Finally, we will have occasion for the motion to put measures on top of the table, measures which must have budgetary quantification. And not to escape data, there is data in the DEC report that better stops the Autonomous Community of Galicia. But there are others that are inappellable, such as the privatization model chosen for squares in the residences of the old age. For us, there is no alternative but to really drive social investment in our country, and that the Union, really, transfers growth to the macroeconomic level of the economy to families, to which employment policies are fundamental, and it is essential to increase the funds of its council. But much more, don't raise them with little ups, they don't get to overcome the grave Greek social situation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u203	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Close this interrogation. Counsellor for Social Policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Vázquez Verao, ladies and gentlemen. When we talk about social policies, we talk about statistics sometimes spread a little bit about reality. The truth is that I might even say that I am surprised at your economic interest by taking everything to the gross domestic product. I'll take advantage of what you do — as you can imagine — to tell you that without the growth of the raw internal product we cannot have budgetary growth. And that, after having budget growth, there's a political decision where we're going to put that budget growth. We could allocate it to cement, we could use it to bicycles, or we could use it to increase our social policy, which is what the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo is doing. [[Applause]] Because, look, there is, really, a reality. In terms of gross domestic product, rose by about 10% in three years; growth in social policy, 25%. Therefore, more than twice as much as the growth of the gross domestic product. Growth in the budgets of the Galician Union? I'm talking. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you'll excuse me, I'm using the word. I've lost, I'm sorry, because I was talking to Mrs Vázquez Verao. [[Pause.]] [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] Growth of the Galician Union, -- thank you very much -- also, about 10% in three years, which, at last, we are at a time when the budgets of the Galician Union grow. [[Laughter]] Growth in social policy budgets, 25%. [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, Mrs Vázquez Verao, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot come here to use data from 2015 in the year 2018. You'll agree with me that this isn't very serious. We have to go to the current data, I'll tell you. That is where the budgetary commitment, which I am telling you, is the real commitment. Then dependency attention statistics. Look, I have here the 2017 data, and I have handwritten the 2015 data, which is the data in the DEC Report and the data that you have given as current. It's that, of course, at that time we'd recognized 1,667 teleassisted devices and now we've got 4,049. By the way, I also tone you, we are not another autonomous community that increases teleassistedness to remove other more expensive services — I also want to tell you very clearly. We doubled this one, but there are many who have grown much more than twice as much. Look, for example, at the next one, which is the home help service. So, look, on December 31, 2015, there were 12,340 people benefiting from this service, and now there are 20,465 people. At that time we had a 22% payout ratio, and now we have a 32% payout ratio. And so, Mrs. Vázquez Verao, I could continue to make a difference between that moment and this moment. Because this Government, the Government of which I am part, took note precisely that it was important to make a social change, to make more social policies. And that's what we've seen doing with more intensity, with much more intensity, since there is, precisely, the Social Policy Council. I'm going to give you another data — not that of Risga, which I'm not going to repeat — could give you the data of the universal income of the cities. Of course, it's just that I'm being talked about as a solution to the problems of this country's municipal income of the Crown with 120 people, and you'll understand that I don't think you've met the goals that many people have expected. Because the Cunta de Galicia is more than 10 times more, specifically in the Town Hall of the Coruña. Or the Town Hall of Santiago de Compostela, which he did was to change his name. Look, before I think it was—I think, because I don't follow it very carefully—Santiago "+",—a symbol of addition—and now it's Santiago "Suma"—and instead of the symbol of adding with "Suma" in letters. But, look, 80 recipients in 2017, when in Galicia, fortunately, we have programs and politics for thousands of people who unfortunately have to attend. [[Applause]] I'll finish with another data. A fact that doesn't allow us to be satisfied, because a lot of people are still in a complicated situation. The last known public data is that 2016 of the severe lack of material INE for Galicia, 4.90%. It's a lot of people still, but it'll agree with me that we're in the right direction, that this statistic is going down. That, therefore, all that budget increase in recent years, and above all the highest budget increase in 2018, will have its results. And you can see me throughout 2018 like all this budget we're starting to spend on this January month of 2018 will allow us to improve on all indicators. I'm saying, not that Galicia is on average, but that Galicia is among the best social spending communities. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u205	Thank you, Counselor. Before suspending the session report a change in the agenda, which has already been discussed with the stakeholders, which is that the question contained in number 3 will be dealt with first; 6.3 is 6.1. We suspended the session until 4:30. You have a temporary notice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u206	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session. Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the problems caused by the saturation of hospital emergency services in the face of increased flu cases
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u207	Mr. Torrado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u208	Thank you, President. Today we start a new debate on emergencies and the response of hospital emergencies to the peak of flu produced in the late months of December and January. And so we could start, practically, any interpellation in January of any year. The reality is quite demolition, there is a problem with regard to citizenship, users, especially, and professionals in the management of influenza peak assistance. The usual flu is the same as the U.S. government inefficiency to manage it. The flu is not the fault of the Galician Union, it's important to point it out, it's important, but it's their responsibility to manage the system. We have a doubt, the truth, and it is that after discussing this issue last year, or discussing problems that have to do with this issue for virtually all committees and all plenarys, we wonder what you note if you put the advice to yourself on management. It would be of interest to know if he was doing it right, wrong, regular, enough, insufficient, remarkable, good, outstanding, honorary registration... because I think he could give us a hint about whether it's possible to improve the system or not, about whether there are spaces to improve or not; we'd like to know what it is. I don't know if you're gonna answer me, I'm sure it's probably not my most appropriate question. I'll be rather soft, sure, compared to the painful and incisive question you'll ask today from the PP seats in the control session to the Government. You have all our support, because you're going to make a very painful and very aggressive intervention, sure, but you'll have a chance at that moment, surely, to answer, and today we can have a more peaceful debate. There's a reality in the system that is that of saturations, a reality that is often denied, but it's a reality. There were beds in the corridors, there were sick people who were delayed in attendance twenty-four hours, forty-eight hours, seventy-two hours, sometimes, that they had no chance of entering because there were no spaces enabled. And there are some professionals who have been overcome by an inefficient, scaring policy, especially on the issue of human resources. There is a councillor overcome by his own inefficiencies, and the fruit of that happens—and it is already systematic and therefore we understand that it is planned, this is planned—the disappearance of the counsellor, of you, Counsellor, during the weeks in which there are these flu problems. Usually, for what the image means, it disappears, but it's inefficient in what it has to do with managing the problems. And in addition to that disappearance, it allows the People's Party — sometimes a bit abstract and the Union too in a bit abstract — to offer some excuses or what the reality of the PP is. It has been said lately that there is an overburden, that there is no collapse, that there is no collapse because the collapse involves paralysis. Let us say that at least we have an interesting linguistic debate. Sometimes it's interesting. Well, there may have been a collapse, not by the professionals, but when the system bursts above saturation, there's a paralysis because you can't go any further, and what works is working, but you can't give any more, there's a saturation, an oversaturation. Diatrics are also produced, even here in Parliament, against whom we don't know, as if someone was going through some personal accounts. There's an excuse that there are few people vaccinated. Curious when they spent the year pretending to be vaccination programs, then we had to assess what responsibility Junta has for her own vaccination programs, if that's something they consider important, which from our point of view is. It's even said that there's excessive use of emergency services. It's the fault of the people who misused emergency services, probably like a Jewish-massonic conspiracy that drives, of course, the Socialist Party, that people get sick on purpose all together to go to hospitals to saturate them. That's probably an explanation. In any case, the reality is that it is of the people accumulated in hospitals, treated with all the good will of the professionals, but that they are unable to treat so many people and that there are no resources to treat them properly. And professionals demand more attention to their claims, often here they appeal to the need to listen to professionals, and we ask ourselves whether they always appeal to that or only sometimes, because there is an obvious structural problem, which is a serious problem when there is a circumstance like the peak of the flu, which can also be expected. Last year in this same debate we said that in January 2018 there would be peak flu and there would be saturation problems because there is not a policy of hiring staff and necessary material resources, or the one that needs health. We said it a year ago. We have the sad feeling that we can venture that next year in January there will be a peak of flu, and — as a result of the misappropriation of staff and material and human resources that this board has — that there will be a problem of oversaturation that would be resolved if we did a little better, or much better. Since we're talking about professionals and some of the realities you're arguing about, they let me pick up some news from the newspapers. Jesús Sueiro, president of the Galaga Association of Family and Community Medicine, Galaga Association of Family and Community Medicine, will know something about the subject. Health centres and CAP are also overwhelmed. He says, "Population," he explains, "makes rational use of the system." I suppose you're against this. Question: "Do the sick go to the health centers? Yes. I mean, does it make rational use of the system? Yes." But he adds, "We have partners watching 50 or 70 patients every day, there's no cover for replacements or bad planning, and contracts are made in a leap." Heads of Emergency Hospitals reprimand Sergas for waiting for the incomes, chiefs of Emergency, professionals who are there every day. They call for effective involvement of management and management. "The doctors of Pontevedra add to the criticisms of the collapse in emergencies." He's a target. "This is a result of a lack of adequacy of the health planning policy of the board. Doctors propose to strengthen Primary to relieve emergencies." Internal Medicine calls for more template in Vigo. Most of the Internal Medicine Service's students ask for four doctors, they can even do an accurate analysis of how many. "The chiefs of service require a solution to the continuing saturations of emergencies. The Omega Medical Union is not convinced by Sergas' explanations. Professionals have produced a document." They make papers, they make proposals. Together you are making progress in the text. We could tell him, that the answer is always, "We're working on it." "Crespo confirms the illegal funding of the PP." That's not it, I'm sorry. "The Wizard enables all his beds for the first time since he opened the Helmet." Enables all your beds. That's why they weren't enabled. Ricardo Costa: "It is true that the PP was funded with black money." Well, it's just that sometimes when we talk about PP's inefficiencies, there's a lot of news going on, I got away, it's got nothing to do with it. I'm sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, it seems funny to you, to me that the PP is going to finance black money, I think it's very serious, but it's very serious. [[Murmurs.]] Even if Pablo Crespo is former leader of the Galician People's Party, and you take it for granted, I think it's very serious. But if you'll excuse me, I'm talking about emergencies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u209	We're going to the emergency room, we're going to the emergency room.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u210	If you'll excuse me, Mrs. Prado, I'm talking about emergencies. I know that you too can contribute a lot to this debate... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u211	Quiet, quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u212	...but I'm talking about emergencies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u213	Let's go to the emergency room.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u214	No, the truth is, I'm talking about Pablo Crespo, and the truth is, I don't know. Maybe they owe you something, but they don't. Your things, I mean, you settle with Pablo Crespo, but I'm here talking about hospital emergencies. [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, yeah, I'm on it, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u215	No, no, but don't interrupt and let's get to the point. Let's end with the emergencies, see if we leave them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u216	But in the spirit of dialogue, I want to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u217	No, no, no dialogue. No, no dialogue. Quiet, please. Not dialogue. Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Please, Mrs. Prado, be quiet. Let's stop... No, they don't dialogue, because if you don't... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u218	If it's not a dialogue, I'm not talking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u219	Quiet, to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u220	Hospital emergencies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u221	Let's suspend the full one moment. We're going to suspend the plenary for a moment, because this is not to be received. Because if this isn't a problem. Then, whoever is in the use of the word respects it, if not, I really tell them to suspend the full. Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For everyone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I know it's for everyone, it's always for everyone. I'm done, if only I got caught up with one news, because the news of the day gets picked up sometimes. So they don't take all they have to do is not give the news, and some of us all wish they didn't know. In any case, Counselor, returning to the question, there's a staff problem and there's a resource problem. This problem is jumping in emergencies, but it's not an emergency problem. There's a problem of lack of replacements for primary care doctors, Mr. Sueiro said, and we say so many political groups here many times, and they say so many users and they say so many professionals. There's a substitution problem, they don't replace doctors and therefore consults are saturated, because there's few doctors and therefore the same staff working for more people has more difficulties. But less personal working for more people, it's a lot more difficult, it's an account that can be done even in A. Less personal, it works less easily for more people. An account that doesn't need to be done in B, so I won't get upset. And that's why we have this problem, because then in specialized care we have another same problem, which is the lack of staff and, therefore, we don't have the ability to have all the beds available. Today, I've already told you this news, the Wizard has enabled all available beds, at last, but to this day. If you've enabled them today it's just that they weren't enabled before, or at least that, since our usual intellectual papacy -- as the councilman of Fairy said -- we understand that if they were enabled today they weren't enabled before. But, finally, it will be our intellectual papalism, in A forever.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u223	Finish, please. Finish, please. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u224	I'm going to finish. What we're saying is that this leads us to be valued as you know how the third worst autonomous community of Spanish health according to users, or by making a dialectic trick — which we saw yesterday — is the 14th best, which is a fairly common way to say things here, but the 14th best in this country is still the third worst. And so we're asking him not to hide when there's problems, to put on resources, because there's no magic, there's no magic pills for this, so to speak easily. Don't hide and don't hide. And, therefore, what we propose to you is that we may, at once, have a real protocol of action against these situations, which are difficult always and that you will not be able to perfectly attend to the system when there is a saturation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u225	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u226	So we propose this so that we can reach an agreement that embraces professionals and that they can...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u227	Thank you, Mr. Torrado, your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u228	So that we all have a more constructive debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u229	Thank you very much. To be exact, the Economic Counsellor did not speak of intellectual papalism, he spoke of political papalism. It's another question, eh! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, if we're going to be accurate, that's exactly how it was. It's another question. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u230	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Torrado, thank you very much. The truth is that I'm going to talk about health care in Galicia, I'm not going to talk about other things, which I think there's a lot of time to talk about, but when arguments are missing, we have to make use of the daily. Say to the health adviser of Andalusia: "The alarm of the collapse of emergencies is due to the parties and the unions." Sweden: "The Karolinska hospital, one of the best in Europe, is in crisis because of the winter flu". Aragon Herald: "The emergency patients of Servet take an average of fifteen hours to enter the plant." Basquedi: "The flu is advancing and saturating the emergencies". Asturias: "The HUCA exhausts the camels." As you can see, what is the peak of assistance in hospitals and primary care in different countries and autonomous communities is general. But we also have to say that the flu wave has different characteristics in each season, so it's necessary to follow up on its evolution on time. The monitoring of seasonal influenza is done through five different systems: the number of weekly calls to 061, of flu and acute respiratory infections; the microbiological surveillance system, in which four of Galicia's major hospitals participate, which allows to know the influenza virus that predominates at each time; the confirmed influenza income monitoring system, which allows you to know the severity... The fundamental goal is to get a broad view of the behavior of disease and circulating influenza viruses. The Galician Health Service also has information prepared and forwarded by the Epidemiology Service of the Directorate-General for Public Health on the surveillance of influenza in Galicia, where information on influenza activity is collected, among others, with intensity, tendency, diffusion of the flu wave and report published weekly during the same period, as well as the report of income in the confirmed influenza hospitals last week. The surveillance of influenza in the 2017-2018 season began in the 40th week of 2017. The start of the wave in this season was, according to the primary care influenza registry monitoring system, R-80, in the week forty-eight of 2017, which ended on 3/12/ 2017. At that time it was announced that following the expected evolution the summit would be between the second weeks of 2018 and the third. The development speed of this season's wave was somewhat higher than expected and the summit finally reached, in week fifty-two of 2017, levels of intensity very similar to those of the weeks' first of 2018 and second of the same year. In these three weeks the number of flu, perhaps, turned 4,108 a week. With the data obtained since the beginning of the season, in week thirty-nine of 2017 — data observed in the second week of 2018, which ended on day 14/1 — the number of calls attended in 061 by flu and others came down for the second week consecutively, and we believe that the results this third week will also be decreasing to arrive — now we are in the average intensity — in which we will publish this Friday, at the low intensity. The microbiology surveillance system has been able to identify as the dominant virus in the current summer season the influenza B virus, predominating the Yamagata line on Victoria line. This line has not circulated with a certain dominance in Galicia since the 2012-2013 season. What measures do we have for these situations? The first is the vaccination campaign. In the first half of the year we began to prepare the processing of the vaccine purchase files through a centralized process throughout Spain. We also provide information about flu both before the start of the season and once it's started. Then the dissemination of information and awareness, both of citizenship and of professionals, will begin, towards the vaccination campaign and the epidemic wave. We broadcast it through the various written and audiovisual media and also through the Sergas website, where we make available to users all the information about influenza disease and the vaccination campaign. In this campaign we vaccinated 537,453 people, 25,428 more than in the previous campaign, Mr. Torrado; we increased vaccination in this season. Of the older sixty-five years we vaccinated 385,074, an increase in coverage of two percentage points. And with regard to professionals, this year, 18% was vaccinated more than last year, exceeding the 11,000. I think it's also important to point out that professionals are greatly increasing their performance and actively in this vaccination, which in the end, since they care for many patients, is fundamental. The amount, which was spent or invested in this campaign, was 2 million euros. Besides, in addition to what we're talking about, first of all, what surveillance is, what prevention is, we create contingency plans. Since the impact of this pathology and the pictures of winter respiratory infections and pathologies have the demand for assistance and increased frequency of hospital emergency services, every year a series of measures are launched towards the influenza campaign, in addition to prevention measures and devices developed in primary care due to this pathology. Because, of course, the fundamental center for us from the beginning of prevention care is in primary care. The Galician Health Service annually prepares contingency plans for the influenza season, which are developed in October for each integrated management agency. We have them here, I have the contingency plans of all Galicia, specifically in my hand those of the EOXI of Lugo, Cervo and Monforte, and there it looks like all the planning of action from primary care, but it's also hospitable, with the professionals who sign, the heads of service who are integrated and who sign this document. This document essentially seeks to organize all the actions that we are going to have throughout the season. In these he collected the plans and actions to be carried out in the different EOXIs in order to control the consequences of life, the spread of the flu, prevent abroctions, plan possible peaks of demand, provide as much assistance as possible to patients with flu and describe the procedures alternative to the usual order of the organization, in order to allow maximum normal functioning. It must be borne in mind, in addition, that hospital emergency services also assist patients with other non-respiratory pathologies, so even though it is possible to plan the demand for flu waves, the entrances of emergency services are always subject to unforeseen changes and circumstances, so adding to the discontinuity of urgent demand characteristics can lead to moments of demand, as happens to us, for example, with the accident that occurred in the Fine Standard company on the day of yesterday. Logically, they're unexpected that we're in a position to take care of. In addition, daily reports are prepared from the General Directorate for Health Care on the situation of the emergency services of each hospital and Sergas' service and global. The importance of primary care is very, very important to develop, as well, this type of action, this epidemic wave situation, both in health care center consultations and in ongoing care points, CAPs. On these devices, the average day of emergency response in 2017 was 4,242, with a resolution percentage of 91.25%. I mean, people who decide to go to the CAP only 8.75 are derived later from the hospital. From December 25, 2017 to January 17, 2018, the number of emergencies attended was 127,990, with a daily average of 5,333 emergencies, and the percentage of resolution remains very high, 93%. At this point, we have 469 primary health centers, or CAP, with an activity of 26 million consultations in 2017 and nearly one million between 1 and 12 January. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to take into account, in addition, that hospital emergency services, as we said before, also assist patients from other pathologies, not only the respiratory tract, but any other need that the patient needs. The situation of increasing demand occurs in an episode of hospital emergency services of all health services, both at the national and international levels, as indicated at the outset, for decades, for various reasons, among which there are epidemic waves of influenza; which does not mean that health services, and within these emergencies, have not evolved in a very significant way in these years. How to improve the response to these situations goes through two pillars, place at each level according to the complexity of health care and improve the contingency plans year by year after a review at the end of this season. Quality agile attention, decreasing times. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to work so that our health services continue to provide the health care that society demands. We are aware that complications may arise on issues that in principle seem predictable, but we will not fall into the situation that we find no solutions. We have solutions, we're going to keep working and, as I say, reviewing the contingency plans we have, we're going to evolve every year by creating new infrastructures and also strengthening our template. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u231	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u232	Thank you, Mr. President, for the previous clarification too, so we already know that we are political and non-intellectual papanatas; it is always good to know that when one is insulted, at least, he is properly insulted. [[Applause]] Well, from our political papalism, which -- not for you, but it's just that you haven't been called papalatas, of course -- obviously, you're always enlightened by the skill and the brightness of enlightenment burns the corneas to the papalatas, we've found that the reality is that the problem is that the flu was very strong, that citizens misuse hospital services, that the opposition is all very bad and that there was also flu in Sweden. [[Applause]] And point. There's no set of self-criticism, no evaluation about the system. We understand that everything is perfect. Well, the truth is that we — I maintain the idea that I defended here in the name of our group — believe this is a global problem — we have said so — but we believe that systems are differently prepared to deal with the problem. Some have a lot more sensitivity to stress and others have less sensitivity. And our problem has a regular, structural resource problem, which causes the least problem to burst, and that always falls on professionals, who dislodge from doing a great job, but who can't, and what we say is that it is necessary to provide the system with the greatest number of resources so that we can be better prepared. Is that gonna solve the whole flu problem? No, no. Other years, with a better system prepared, there were fewer cases and there was much more acquittal capacity. And today we have come to propose that we value the possibility of getting this out of a debate where we have to blame the Karolinska Institute for bringing it to a Galician debate, because we believe this is a debate that can be improved in Galicia, with more resources. And those protocols — by the way, thank you for having them, now there's only a chance that we can see them all, because we asked them here, but they voted against, but because they're done... in the press they said they were doing them, but because they're done -- we thought it would be interesting if we could see them all. If you think you don't have to share information, it's a position that we obviously don't agree with, but it's yours, but I like you to recognize that you have information and you don't want to make it easier. At least admit it. What we're proposing here is sharing certain information to be able to build a system that can deal with better problems every year. Because soon there are problems in circumstances, which everyone will face from the health or ideological model they consider, but there are problems that are common every year and it is possible to build a common model. We've come to propose that. With systems that worked better, you asked for removals from counsellors, you asked for them. And by the way, they were talking about care collapse, they were talking about care collapse, and what they're saying in the commission, what they said yesterday about the collapse, is that you can't talk about care collapse, because that's going against professionals, it's said here. PPdeG recommends that Touriño stop changing chromes and replace the counsellor responsible for the care collapse. And I, who are a papalata, to be able to bring here this debate what I do is to copy voices, ratings of very valid people, such as those of the health spokesperson in 2008, who made this assessment by asking for resignations and talking about care strikes. [[Applause]] And we don't pronounce that term, we are proposing an agreement. You see that papalism is sometimes so much so that it proposes agreements. We propose that we understand this, and you think that it is our fault to bring this debate here, and we consider that it is not ours to bring it here — if we would not have to bring it — nor is it the fault of those going to the ER. How do you understand that health care asks sick people not to go to the E.R. when many people take several days without getting an appointment with their head doctor? You were alarmed in 2008 that since the advisor's office you had called not to go to the Emergency Department with any problems. They were alarming about it, and today you think this is a partisan attack, interested, alarmist, papapatas! In 2008, there was a press release by the People's Party. Let's be realistic about this, if we have a problem that we don't deal well with this flu problem, we value it as a resource problem, if there are other elements, we value it. But what can't be, today they consider us to be disarmed when we're only proposing agreements that you not only refused, but asked for resignations for ineptitude, they said, for ineptitude speaking of collapse. And he says, by recriminalizing, that he had spoken to the citizenship saying that we couldn't use the E.R. for anything. That, obviously, you can't, but, of course, there were doctors in primary care, and not today. Today there are very few primary care doctors for what we need. And we have 35,000 people hired in Sergas according to the budgets, but it's not true, there are 7,000 of those squares that are not hired.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u233	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u234	So what we have is a weakened, cheaty system that has few resources, and a system with few resources gets it wrong, and that's an absolute truth, there's no magic, it's a prosaic problem, it's a resource. If you want to solve this problem, we are delighted to deal with it and get this problem out of this debate. But for that, you have to put resources in place, otherwise you can blame users, but we think it's neither flu nor users, it's management.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u235	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Close the interrogation, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u236	Mr. President, thank you very much. Well, by the way, Mr. Torrado, I'm just going to make a comment. This counselor hasn't been lost, he hasn't had any day off, he hasn't been dancing in schools, he's been working logically with his team and what he has to do, which is trying to improve the health care situation, which I think is not as bad as you say. [[Applause]] It gives me the opportunity, too, to talk, because it's very easy to talk -- speaking doesn't have cancels and you can say whatever you want -- but really, that data that always gives us, that the budget is lower, that you've lost 18% of that budget, that there's less doctors... Well, look, I'm going to talk about four data, just. Number of professionals in 2008 — the last year of the two-party Government — 36,506. Right now, in 2017, there's 38,050. There are 1,500 more professionals in 2008. Family doctors, there were 2,434 and right now there are 2,600; 7% more family doctors. Nursing personnel, in 2008, there were 9,800, and at present there are 10,400, 6% more than in 2008. Staff budget in 2008 was 1,431,000 and now 1,567.000; therefore, 136 million more euros in 2008. Even if we repeat things, if they're lies, they're lies, I think we should try to be a little bit more rigorous in what we're trying to do. Look, we, the most important action, the difference of any other public service is the subject of which we not only give a public service in order of arrival, but classify them, and prioritize the performances. So in emergency services, we have a system, which is Manchester's triage, for a few years, since 2013, and we've classified them. And there's a percentage of between 40% and 50% that's what's classified as, let's say, less important priorities, and that could be perfectly resolved in the primary care field and shouldn't be in the hospital. It is not the fault of the citizens, we are providing information and we want to try to be able to cooperate, which we properly address the assistance action in the field of best resolution. If we can solve primary care, of course, we must not solve emergency care. Higher displacements and sometimes, logically, we also occupy spaces that should be for people with much more serious situations. The activity in emergency services, the number of patients treated in emergency care in Sergas from December 25 to January 17 was 72,470, with a daily average of 3,020 emergencies; 3,020 hospital emergencies in this short period. And we're entering 17.67%, which is a high percentage of film, not too much. So there's a lot of urgency and, therefore, there's an increase in hospital income. But for that we have the conditions we have, and since we're talking about the Mexoneiro -- it's very typical to talk about the Mexoneiro Hospital -- and as I know it quite well, there was a criticism that the Mexoneiro wasn't taking advantage of. The Mexier takes advantage of himself, has a huge activity throughout the clinic and also in hospitalization, and we are currently using many beds from the Mexeiro Hospital, which in previous times — like the Bipartite — these patients did not enter the Mexeiro, but were derived from private hospitals. So also, right now, the budget for the Health Council is 10%, 10 million less in concerted centres than at the time of the Bipartite. [[Murmurs.]] And of course we do template reinforcements, of course we do template reinforcements. Our idea is to make a stabilization and it's practically the only service of the autonomous community that has done OPE every year; so we're moving forward in staff stabilization and we're going to continue, but always in health care there has to be a percentage of potential. It's got to be like this, but we're doing reinforcements. Now we're talking about 1,246 reinforcements in emergency services in different categories, or 1,895 reinforcements in hospitalization. Also — as I say — in different categories. But for that we are also developing new forms of action for chronicity and for the aging of the population, such as the Telea Programme, which is fundamental. Or home hospitalization, which is also collaborating and has to increase collaboration. And we have 061, a fundamental ally, because it not only classifies, but also leads, in many cases, to where patients should be cared for. We'll keep working. How? Well, obviously, planning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u237	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u238	... improving needs plans year by year. At the end of the season we have a reassessment of what happened this year, and logically we're going to make the necessary changes to improve. But also improving infrastructure with more health centers, more than 20 new health centers. The expansion of hospitals, too. The latest hospital works, both in Chuac and in Salnes, as well as what we have provided in Gran Montecelo, or in Ferrol's hospital, have significantly increased space. And also, as I say, stabilising templates, making our professionals work and collaborate in everything with us. A total of 415 beds have strengthened services right now, 415 beds plus we wouldn't have, and that logically, with infrastructure plans in the future we're going to continue to improve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u239	Thank you, Counselor. We continue with item 6 on the agenda. Question by Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and two other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, on the forecasts of the Galician Union regarding the cautious suspension of mining surveys and other work being carried out by the Sociedade Cobre San Rafael in the Towns of Touro and Pino, while water supply in the area is not guaranteed
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u240	Give a voice to Mr. Casal's chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u241	Good afternoon. Thank you, Counselor, for your presence. As I imagine you will know, the company Sociedade Copper San Rafael is conducting surveys and mining surveys in the Town Councils of Touro and Pino on local roads, on public roads and also on private property. According to us, we move to the Neighborhood Platform Mina Touro-O Pino Not all these surveys are developing without any official authorization, and not even with the authorization of the municipalities to act on public properties, nor of the owners on private farms, which often have no idea what these gentlemen do there with the drillers. This kind of performance already shows how the company works, which has the option of buying on miners' rights. And we are seeing the following: the absence of an ideological and geotechnical study that clearly identifies the sources, streams and streams of water existing in the area of the mining exploration work. The failure of these studies implies an imminent risk for underground aquifers and the Freatic Layer, with the possible implications for sources, springs, wells, etc., that serve the citizenship and animals of the farms in the area. And you have to keep in mind, moreover, that they are not small perforations, but they are surveys of many meters deep, as you can appreciate. Well, here's a knot of the roads with one of the polls in the middle of the road, I don't know how the cars would go. And here, for example, you can appreciate one of the surveys. The polls have a diameter of 20 centimeters and there are more than 60 bags of theoretical remains sterile than they were removed from that hole, because imagine the depth of the perforation so that 60 bags of the arid, theoretically sterile, can be removed from a perforation of 20 centimeters. There are — according to which we are commented in the area, and I have no guarantee because I asked for the information but I did not get it — no authorization from Galician Waters for the use of water in the surveys that are being carried out. As you know, in order to do surveys of that depth, you have to inject the pressure water, in addition to being cut. The lack of security in conducting the polls and absence of a safety perimeter, which implies the existence of an imminent risk of any accident; a lack of a geotechnical study, which entails a risk of the release of clouds and stems; the absence of corrective measures to mitigate shocks and accidents; the lack of adequate signaling of mine work; the abandonment of roads — as evidenced by this photo — of, theoretically, inert rubbles. Here you see cattle grazing in the area and the broken bags with all the arids, which are theoretically inert, but we know that they can — and for that that is what will be extracted there — copper arsenal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u242	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u243	I'll ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u244	No, the counsellor knows her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u245	No, I didn't ask the question. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u246	Yes, the counsellor knows her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u247	Think of the Galician Board carefully suspending the mining surveys that are being carried out without authorization and other work as long as the viability of aquifers, wells, caustics, etc. is not guaranteed.Is that what you're talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u248	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, we have held a lot of debates in this House, and I always believe that we agree with a clear objective of working to promote industry, to promote employment, and in that sense I think that is where we have to work. But I'd ask you, or I'll tell you that when you and your group talk about the mining sector, the debate automatically takes other derivatives, which is not employment, which is not the promotion of the mining sector in Galicia. I would ask you, in some ways, that when we talk here about mining and the mining sector we will resume the debate and talk about specific data, talk about certain data, talk about legality, Mr. Casal, and we will also, logically, talk about the valuation of public professionalism. None of these elements, unfortunately, are put into your question in writing, nor in your intervention, and that leads me to think that the criticisms you bring here to the House have as their only basis the ideology of your group and therefore the position of your group against the mining sector and against the use of mining. It seems that you come here to give your opinion, even surprisingly, without data, simply "by what they say," and, therefore, you just come here to transfer opinions. I believe that, frankly, the mining sector deserves another kind of approach, another kind of more rigorous debate, focused on legality, focused on truthfulness and also focused on responsibility. You claim, Mr. Casal, without specificity, that the mining surveys being carried out are not authorized, and that water resources in the area are being affected. And he does it, simply on the basis, as I already told him, in an unfounded opinion, and he also asks Junta to suspend these polls; surveys on which the company has the corresponding permissions, and he also knows that these are surveys that have been taking place for more than thirty years. Besides, the mine inspection team, Mr. Casal, hasn't recorded any kind of danger you bring to this House. I therefore sincerely believe, Mr. Casal, that it is not possible to make complaints without providing specific data, and of course we, from the Government, will not paralyze an activity which the law permits and which, in addition, is carried out in accordance with the authorizations they have in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u250	Thank you, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Replica, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u251	Thank you very much. Truth befits me, Mr. Conde. I came to ask you... We didn't come here to talk about mining industry in Galicia, don't be demagogy, no; in three minutes I won't talk to you or we can talk about mining industry in Galicia, please! Whenever you want, we can have a broad and deep debate about what the mining industry brings. You know what it brings, don't you? Know it! He knows that 85% of the performance of the mining industry in Galicia goes out to businesses outside Galicia, and that's what he knows. Whenever we want to talk about the mining industry. We asked a specific question: were hydrological studies focused? were the permits given based on geotechnical, hydrological studies, of which the depth would be made? And on the basis of those studies, did it affect aquifers, groundwater, and could they affect springs or wells? That's what I asked him. Did you do those studies? Tell me now, you told me specifically about that. We're not going to talk in a minute about everything En Marea brought about for the mining industry. And now, with the president's permission, I have a moral obligation to ask him for an immediate matter of urgency to transfer to the Environmental Adviser, and it is that one cannot be allowed to have a rapture like the one he's promoting and sponsoring the Council of Galicia on February 3rd in Galicia. I beg you to transfer it to him. [[Mr. Casal Vidal shows the House a sign.]] I know it's not appropriate, but the subject is so serious that they know it: there are international media and television that are going to come to Galicia, and you're going to turn Galicia into a disgraceful act for all the Greeks. They don't allow February 3 to kill foxes with the Spanish Fox Hunting Championship, which has been doing for more than ten years in Galicia alone, because elsewhere they don't dare do it, and much less the promotional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u252	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Close this question, Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u253	I'm sorry, Mr. Casal, that you continue with your ideology. Their ideology, unfortunately, does not generate wealth, does not generate jobs, and the only thing they want to move is that they don't seem to be interested in talking about mining. I'll answer you in a concrete way. You came here to transfer me simply "what you're told," that was your literal expression. I think that's not the debate, but at any rate, I'm going to answer: You, in the case of research permits and surveys being carried out, know that you have the appropriate permissions; the first information I transfer to you. So they're doing them according to the plans and projects presented. You should know -- so I'd ask you to come to this camera with knowledge and data -- that you don't need permission from Galician Waters, because you don't use the water on the border, because you're doing it in a closed circuit. That's the data, Mr. Casal. And you also know -- and if you don't know, you should know, not because of what they tell you, but because you should have prepared -- that studies for the Galicia-Costa basin do have data on the water resources in the area. So I think this is simply not a debate study. This is Parliament, and therefore we have to come here with data, we have to come here and talk about legality, and we have to come here, therefore, about reality, in this case of the mining sector. So what I'm transferring to you is that this government, of course, trusts it in the mining. De En Marea is clearly simply against for a purely ideological reason. Of course, we're applying legality in all areas, in this case too in our own surveys, because you know that the law of the Bipartite, which approved the Bipartite, is that which we're applying in Galicia, and gathers all guarantees. And we logically believe in the rule of law, and this law promotes rational and compatible use. So I think we need to talk more rigorously. And, Mr. Casal, when he comes to talk about the mining, please, I'd ask him not to talk about what they're talking about; come with data, because this government always tells you about data, about legality, about veracity, and always respecting the performance of public officials as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u254	Thank you, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Quiet, please. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Question by Mr Martín Fernández Prado and 14 other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the forecasts of the Galician Union with regard to the intermodal stations and the dates scheduled for their completion
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u255	Question by Mr Martín Fernández Prado of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u256	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Very briefly. For their appearances in this chamber we know that the German Government is betting on intermodality and has been working in this direction for years, coordinating with other administrations — with Development and with Councils — the necessary actions to achieve intermodality in our community, for what has already been achieved by Community funding. The People's Group — and also the Government, of course — know how important it is for the means of transport to complement each other and to have these different means of transport. That's why we're at one of the important moments for Galicia. In addition, at this moment when it occurs, on the one hand, a horizon close to the arrival of the AVE to the Meseta, with all the sections of the AVE already running, already in works all that remains, and with an important thrust of public transport by roads with that global reform of transport. We understand that this is a very important time for us to move ahead firmly in the intermodality and construction of these intermodal stations in our cities. As we could know in some of the last appearances — in particular the budget one — the board is working to bid some of these first intermodal terminals this year, for which we also understand that it is essential that a number of deadlines be met before the invitation to tender. How do we also have some doubts about how these works are going and whether there really is this collaboration, especially where it is put in service, where it is available to the ground and the urban works, and how the projects of these intermodals are going, let us ask you this oral question: what is the balance of the Board with respect to the intermodal stations and what are the expected dates to achieve these infrastructures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u257	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u258	Thank you, President. Mr. Fernández Prado — as we are committed to the Government of Greece — we want this to be the legislating of transport, not only by working and improving services, with the new Public Transport Plan in Galicia, adapting the needs and demands of our neighbours in Galicia, but also by modernizing the infrastructure. Modernisation of infrastructures is about acting at intermodal stations, establishing simple connections to allow exchanges of safe and axile modes of transport, and also helping to make cities. We're working on big cities in these intermodal station projects, strategic infrastructures to make the most of the opportunity that high speed gives us, high speed potential, an opportunity to make cities. We have European funds after a major management of the European Union. And, as you know, intermodal stations require a joint work between three administrations: the Galician Union, the Ministry of Development and also local authorities. The work of the Town Councils must be done to bring the entire post into service of these intermodal stations. It was essential, and it is a basic piece, Law 3/2016, the Law of urgent measures, the Law of express, to speed up urban processes and the lack of special plans, and give legal certainty to these actions. From the Galician Junta, we're moving on to the part of what we're touched by, on the bus terminals integrated into railway stations. In the Budgets of the Galician Union this year forecast about 7.2 million euros. We will therefore be able to begin the works of the Santiago intermodal, that of Ourense, that of Pontevedra and that of Vigo, to complete the Coruña project and move forward in Lugo and Ourense. With regard to Santiago's intermodal, this is the one that is most advanced. We've already auctioned the works of the new bus terminal station, 10.4 million euros from Galician Junta. In the case of the Vigo intermodal, by March 2015 we bid the constructive project. The truth is it took the Vigo Council more than two years to assume that it was responsible for the design of the accesses. And two and a half years later he transferred an access design, so the delay of Vigo's intermodal station, where we plan to invest 12.3 million euros. The Ourense intermodal, in December, we have already approved the urban traffic of the bus terminal, the new parking lot. In the coming weeks we'll bid this new bus terminal. And in Pontevedra we're already working on the project that connects to the railway station, and pending to adjudicate the entire bus station reform project and its entire surroundings. About 4 million euros for Pontevedra Intermodal Station. So moving forward to respond to that demand to facilitate modes of transport and also contribute to making cities. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u259	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u260	Very briefly too. Thank you, Counselor, for that data. I see they're going at a different speed from some of the stations. And, if I may, in my capacity as a Member for the Coruña, because of the particular concern. I see that Santiago's is going something more advanced, but it seems that the latter is the Coruña's. I don't know if I could give us any more details about these two stations, about how they're moving forward and, especially, about why this delay was when the project was supposed to be done. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u261	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Close the question, Madam Infrastructure and Housing Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u262	Thank you, President. For the truth is that the Galician Union and the Ministry of Development are working with the same intensity in all projects and cities. The level of progress is not the same at all and varies a lot because it is very conditioned to the will of collaboration and work, of course, of the municipalities. In the city of Coruña there have been many changes of criteria, which have significantly affected the project and therefore the works of the intermodal station. It's true and you have to say it all: the local government, first, asked for a very ambitious project, betted on reurbanizing the whole avenue of Sardinia, and changed substantially one year later, with a much more modest performance, remodeling the Sardinian avenue. The truth is he did it when we had the project worked out. And in this case we call for a minimum basis agreement so that it will not change its approach again. We're not about losing money and wasting time, of course, and less of the public employees. That's why we proposed the signing of an agreement, which was signed on November 2, which obliges us to redefine the entire project we've already done and hence re-align the constructive project. Therefore, important delay in the Coruña. And in other cities, in Ourense, Vigo, Pontevedra and Santiago we want to start the works this year. In any case, in Santiago we have bids: 10.4 million euros, 18 months in time, and what we would like to be able to start the works. We want, because we have bids, start the works and put them in service. To begin the works we expect the Town Hall of Santiago to make the land available to start those works and also to run the accesses, that go those accesses to the new bus station. The truth is we are totally lacking information by the Town Hall of Santiago. This leads to uncertainty, causes concern, we have no specific information about any of the accesses. What surprises me most is that the conceler of the Town Hall of Santiago transfers us that the access projects are in bidding, and it is not true because in the Profile of contractor of the Town Hall of Santiago is not, as well as that he even tells publicly what he knows and who knows the deadline of execution of a work when the project is not even auctioned — it must be the custom for tides to know the deadlines of the works very much before—. So, what we're used to here is the rule of the embide of the tides of Podemos. At the Galician Summit we work at the most, transparency at the most, we allow us to think as much and, of course, as much opinion and information as possible. The town halls of tides? Minimum work, minimum information, minimum transparency, minimum opinion, so that we can think of the others. And so I have to regret that it is publicly said that there are projects of access in tender and they are not. And that, please, we all want Santiago's intermodal station...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u263	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u264	...may be on duty in 2019.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u265	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you. Question from D. Marcos Cal Ogongo, from G.P. of En Marea, about the valuation made by the Galician Union of the safety of the new gateways of the Rande bridge
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u266	Question by Mr Marcos Cal, of the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u267	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. I'll ask you a question about AP-9. AP-9 goes through Compostela, passes through the Coruña... I don't think you'll have any chance of taking responsibility for the Compostela Town Hall or the Coruña Town Hall, but, well, we can wait for anything to see how their interventions are going today. [[Applause]] Last December 30th, the highest representatives of the Central Government and the Galician Union, Mariano Rajoy and Alberto Núñez Feijóo, took part in the inauguration of the work of the AP-9 expansion on the Rande bridge. An act in which the top managers also participated in the infrastructure of the two administrations, you and Iñigo... ...President!... ...as well as the president of the Congress Bureau, Ana Pastor, or Vice President of the Galician Union, Alfonso Rueda. [[Murmurs.]] [[Pause.]] The maximum spread to make it look like it was true that the work was finished. We do not remember a display of institutional support in these dimensions, but with Audasa we have met. All PP efforts are few so that Audasa can increase the rates and thus further expand its unacceptable benefits to the account of the Greeks and the Greeks. According to the agreement of the Ministry of Development and Audasa, these works are being carried out by the concessionaire, while the central government authorizes an increase in the price of the fees for 20 years, the 20 years following the year of completion of the extension work. That's where the People's Party unfolded to inaugurate a work without ending on December 30th. From our point of view, in addition to the unacceptable fact that the Council of Galicia and the Government of the State are putting themselves under the command of Audasa again to participate in an inauguration simulation, so that they can climb the beaches to the Galicians and the Greeks, and thus continue to increase their policy. You'll know in exchange for that; someone wins with this in addition to Audasa, of course it's not citizenship. And seeing Feijóo talk about the grey areas of funding, seeing what they are saying both in the wake of justice and in the state security bodies about the illegal financing of his party, because he will understand that, seeing as they might be to favor Audasa's interests, we are concerned. As he said, in addition to the unacceptableness of his worship in front of Audasa, participating in the inauguration simulation, or we can call it the "inauguration of the rise of the fees", which you made them very happy, in addition to that, we also understand that the additional ways of Rande Bridge undergo a scam that neither solves the underlying problems of this stretch nor can be considered an extension of the highway. The additional roads that have just been opened to traffic on the Rande Bridge do not comply with the exploitation of a highway, and are separated from the bridge body, being isolated roads that cannot be considered as enlargement, cannot be considered as part of the highway, because they do not meet the conditions of security or experience and condition that justify it to be called "self-road". On these two new routes, you can't circulate as if you were part of a highway, you can't move forward, you don't have convenience in use...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u268	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u269	... offers no safe circulation, as they are ensuring in these early days the municipal users and representatives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u270	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u271	I put the question to you: Counsellor, does it seem to you that the Galician board will increase the road fares by an extension of the motorway, after opening two additional routes that do not offer the motorway service?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u272	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u273	Thank you, Mr. President. He shouldn't have been persuaded by his partner's intervention, because the beaches were treated in the morning; the question comes from the outside lanes on Rande's bridge. He shouldn't have been persuaded by the intervention of his fellow Lake in the morning when I gave him the answer I... I'm giving him the answer. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So we've been looking at what's going on in this question, which is the extension of the Rande Bridge and the external lanes, and the issue of the beaches we've been talking about this morning. You bring here a question that is concrete and that moves the insecurity of the external lanes on the Rande bridge, but the truth is, Mr. Cal, this question is that it comes late. It's late because you know the works are finished. So if you doubted insecurity so much, don't you know why they didn't make claims to the project, or before the works? It's like they do things. Of course you're all planning to fix problems. The works have been planned for a long time; projected for a long time; decided and agreed to finance, as I explained this very morning; and bids, adjudicated, executed, finished... had time and time and time to move if they had any anxiety, and did not arrive late, not very late, once they were in service. In any case, the expansion of AP-9 works in Vigo, the extension of Rande, was necessary for themes of competitiveness and road safety, of capacity, because it is the only entry into Vigo in the north. About 56,000 vehicles a day, 56,000 v/d, 70,000 practically in summer, and what it's about is avoiding the future collapse. The different settings were analyzed. Finally, the rail, external lanes were adopted, by the way, increasing the bridge capacity by 42% with that third rail, improving the level of service, improving comfort and also forecasting to deal with the incidences of these three connecting areas between the external and central lanes, limiting the speed to 80 kilometers/hour. He might like it more or less, but the truth is, decisions and designs are from technicians. And so I can assure you that the Rande Bridge is an infrastructure run by the Ministry of Development, in which the Ministry of Development technicians of course verified and verified compliance with the safe protocols which are strict in matters of road safety. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u274	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u275	Thank you, President. I don't know what's coming from the interrogation. This is a very specific question about Rande's plot, and the interpellation would go much further. Nothing has to do with it, I don't understand this argument. Counsellor, were the works finished on the 30th? You say the works were finished. On the 30th the works were not finished. If the works were finished on the 30th day, why did Audasa limit the use of one of the lanes? Because it was all over, it was all perfect. So you limited one of those races because the works were finished, right, Counselor? While you were taking the picture and congratulating 2018, on December 30, you were still installing some platforms on Rande Bridge. And, Counselor, if the work was finished on December 30th, why did I spend January 6th, festive, and found workers in the work? Why did I walk through that highway on January 6th, and there were signs of work all along the way? Why did day 6th get to an area and I was thrown out because it was a restricted area by works? [[Applause]] Because it was finished, wasn't it, Counselor? On the 30th the play was not finished. You made an opening so that Audasa could climb the beaches this year. What interest did you have in precipitating the inauguration of this work? On full vacations or on full Christmas days, you joined Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Feijóo, yourself, De la Serna, the President of Congress, the Minister of Development... all together to make a pretense of an opening of a work that was obviously not inaugurated. You've come to the side of Audasa to benefit your interests, thus harming the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. Counsellor, keep silent before the police and justify every injustice. Round it up is a clear example, Counselor. Of all the options that you had on that commission, do you think it's best to take the toll to all the Greeks and to the Greeks? That's not the question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u276	Thank you, Mr. Cal, thank you. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u277	Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u278	Closing time for this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u279	Fear in your arguments, Mr. Cal. The truth is, I insist, is that you didn't convince your partner's intervention in the morning so that I have to... I don't find any fees here, nor round it, but, in any case, you confirm again that you didn't like your partner's intervention. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, and you can confirm that the Ministry of Development itself: there are ordinary conservation works, which are usually done. So they're doing it, and it was making the usual conservation that is usually done in the infrastructures and in the works once it's finished. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, ordinary conservation instead of what you're saying. Of course he completely doesn't know the work of the technicians and also of the public employees for his question that we have registered here. We're talking about a very complex engineering work, where technicians analyzed and studied a lot of alternatives, and they've often detected and evaluated different alternatives, and of course they've carried out security protocols, choosing the solution that was understood to be more efficient, compatible and without having to cut the Rande bridge traffic in a single day. This is what was adopted. And before placing the new lanes, 80 pulleys were executed — I suppose you will know — the two external side lanes, which are 3 kilometers, the emergency steps, additional measures, the speed limitation of 80 kilometers/hour, the positioning of barriers at a height similar to that of a truck to avoid that feeling that you say exists in the outer lanes, which now wakes up late, late, ill and drag. If any user, for whatever reason, wants to use the central lane or the outer lane, he can do it. That can be done by the Galician Union in collaboration with the Ministry of Development. Yes, indistinctly, Mr. Cal, you haven't woken up long ago when you could do it, not once finished. Because I don't know what day you said but it was already late, no, very late. You can go through the outer lane or the inner lane independently. That's because the Galician Union claims in time and we have planning and forecast. We proposed it at the beginning of the works. And I insist: you might like the design more or less, but it meets the security regulations, and it's creating a social alarm to create it, in addition to checking the Ministry of Development the security requirements. I think you're questioning the professionalism of technicians. I don't know if it's a matter of criticizing public employees as well as the mayor of the Crown and the tides of Podemos. I recommend that you report more, of course... I tell you, they're late; you must have a lynx view to anticipate problems, to solve problems. In any case, by the end, all precautions for drivers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u280	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u281	...that they comply with the rules of movement and respect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u282	Thank you, Counselor, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u283	Okay. [[Applause]] Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, on the management carried out by the Junta of Galicia since 17 October 2017 to ensure the viability and continuity of the company Madeira Iglesias, S.A., in the south area of the province of Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u284	Question by Mr. Luís Bará of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u285	Thank you, Mr. President. Stop right there, calm down. [[Murmurs.]] We need to get a little excited about this. [[Laughter]] Well, thank you, Mr. President. [[Laughter]] Thank you, Mr. President. Well, "don't laugh, the story is sad," I'd say Castelao. I, Counsellor, come here to bring you the concern, not the concern, but the distress, the despair of the staff of the company committee, which we shared from the BNG, for the situation that is going through the Madeira Churches company, which is dedicated — as you know — to the field of the floating tarima, which was a leading company in the state and in Europe, which had more than eight hundred jobs in 2006, more than 113 million in billing in 2007, and currently is billing 16 million euros and has seen its staff cut to 250 people. Still, we're talking about one of the most important companies in the southern part of Pontevedra province, which you know is that in the industrial sector it has been particularly punished in recent years. In addition, we have to take into account an important factor that you have: 80% of your employment are women; female employment, which is therefore very important to defend. The limited position of the company has to do with various factors: external factors, of course, because of the problems that have occurred in the market, in the contraction in this sector, and, above all, also because of the poor management of the employer, as shown by several studies that have been done on the situation of the company. And that despite the enormous sacrifices made by his staff, as we have already said here in the debate that we have made of the GNP, with seven EREs and two competitive processes over the past eight years, enduring abuses and restrictions on the employer's rights, renouncing wage increases, in order to reach — as we say — this critical situation, with the threat of an extinct ERE and also with suspicious manoeuvres by the entrepreneur, decapitalizing the company, selling family members at the cost of the company's assets and with the disappearance of machinery and material. And all this, which seems to us to be serious, with the absence, with the absolute passivity of the Galician Union, which has not been present throughout this process throughout all these years, and we also want to remind you, after a proposal by the BNG was approved in this plenary, in which it was literally requested "to urge the Greek Government to make managements to the property of Madeira Churches in order to seek the viability and continuity of the company" and "to veil the labour rights and the maintenance of employment." And you didn't do anything all this time, you had to mobilize the workers and workers at Christmas again, come to this parliament again, press the media, seek the support of mayors, so that you would be worthy of receiving them last week, that is, three months after this parliamentary agreement — at all time he didn't do anything at all— And at that meeting you were very surprised by the company's situation and you said you didn't know what was going on in this company. It seems, of course, very serious. And that's why, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u286	Ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u287	...this is an extraordinarily urgent subject, because time here matters a lot. We know you've been very busy in this time putting the carpet on business...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u288	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u289	...like Elnosa. We would like to ask you, Counsellor, about what management has done for Galicia throughout these years and over these three months since the initiative in this House of the BNG has been approved unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u290	Thank you, Mr Bará. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, two previous comments: Firstly, we share the concern — as it cannot be otherwise — of the situation of the company, and logically we share the concern of the workers. And in that sense, I've logically transferred to them all the performances that took place in the Galician Union. I'm sorry that in all his speech, that I share, the moment he has to talk about the Government automatically transforms that speech, he qualifies it, and simply transfers an opinion and data that are incorrect. Because I can't accept you talking about the passivity of the Council of Galicia, and much less can I accept you from this advisor's ignorance of the situation of the Church Woods. And I'll prove it. Because, look: Galician Union has been supporting this company since 2009, Mr. Bará. Galician Union was in 2009 when it had to intervene for the first time, and you know that. That's why I think that in the parliamentary debate just the BNG is transformed when it has to talk about the Galician Union, but it is simply transformed to talk about opinions, not to talk about specific data. In 2009 you know that the Galician Union helped refinance this company, and you know that. And he knows that, in fact, he gave him an endorsement, and that thanks to that endorsement, he was able to cope with the refinancing of the company and, therefore, to continue in a difficult situation, but to continue with the company's activity. The Galician Union has at all times recognized the workers of Madeira Churches their commitment and their professionalism. And from the year 2009 to this moment we are next to him because we are aware that the situation is of enormous difficulty. Mr Bará, when this parliament made that decision, the Galician board was already working to approve an amendment to the Igape avalanche and, therefore, to contribute to its decision, in November 2017, to which workers could receive the payroll. This meeting in Galicia, both the Igape and the General Secretariat of Employment, met with the workers in December. I personally meet last Tuesday with the company committee and meet with the administrator himself this week. Therefore, the Galician Union is working. What this government cannot do, Mr Bará, is neither impose a solution nor assume a situation that is not sustainable, as by the way, did the BNG with Alfageme, who wasted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u292	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u293	...and dropped 32 million euros with an endorsement they knew it wasn't viable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u294	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u295	Counselor, they're not opinions, they're facts, and you just confirmed them here. There's actually an avalanche of the Igape, and we don't deny it. But what we're telling you is that you haven't moved a finger in these three months; you were very busy defending Elnosa's interests, you and two other advisors. [[Applause]] Three Government advisors to defend the Elnosa company, to force the law, to benefit this company. While they're letting themselves go to the peak of Madeira Churches, which has five times more jobs than Elnosa. So, give yourself to what you have to dedicate to. In fact, as Igape has endorsed, you are committed to the future of this company, to the viability of this company, because they have put public money in it and because they also have an obligation to defend industrial employment and the viability of this company, which has viability in the sector, and so have the studies. Because despite the mismanagement, it's a company that has experience, that has knowledge of the sector, that has a very committed staff frame and that can be absolutely viable. And, of course, structural changes must be made in the company, debt must be renegotiated, and you must meet with all sides. But he didn't meet at the last hour because he didn't get any more remedy, as you did, or as you did in the Igape, but he was actually involved with the entrepreneur, with the creditors, as well as with the staff. And besides, consider something that's very important: time in this case is gold, we're against the clock, they can't walk the turtle step as you're speaking on this subject. So get involved, get to work, put on the batteries and look for a solution because they can and should do it, it's their obligation. And consider one thing: if this company has to close, it will be a disaster for the industrial sector in the south of Pontevedra, already devastated by the crisis and the relocation, but it will be, above all, a social and human drama for more than two hundred families who have this sword of Damocles hanging on their heads. Therefore, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u296	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u297	... act once in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u298	Thank you. Close this question, Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u299	I find that talking to the BNG of employment and industry is euphemism. And I'm deeply sorry, because they're just your supporters; you seem to have a list of the projects that you have to go ahead and the projects that you don't have to go forward. And so, Elnosa has to close it and Iglesias have to defend it. Look: we defend everyone, to everyone!, Mr Bará ; we defend Elnosa, we defend Madeiras Iglesias and we defend employment and industry in Galicia. [[Applause]] This is not an ideological issue, it's an issue of economy, employment and industry. And when they come to this debate in the House, logically, we can talk seriously. Anyway, what I'm sorry about is that they just don't listen to the government. I'll transfer that this government, in October and November, has been renegotiating the conditions of the endorsement with the company and, therefore, has already been acting precisely to ensure the viability of the company. And that modification of the avalanche was adopted in October. You don't believe it, because I'm sorry. So this government has been working with the company since October. This government has been working with its own workers, offering them mediation, logically offering them all the support. And this government has been working for months with its own company, to make available to it all the requirements that can enable the viability of the company. I'm hoping for the Galician Nationalist Block is that they don't want the Government to impose a solution, I hope. Because, logically, as you know, any solution for Madeira Churches -- workers know it, the government knows it and the company knows it, it seems BNG doesn't know it -- will depend precisely on dialogue, consensus, between creditors, business, administration and workers themselves. And this government is working in that direction, trying to promote an agreement between all parties to ensure viability. Mr Bará, the workers don't need you to come to this camera just for confrontation. What the workers need is for you to come to this camera and talk seriously about the viability of the company and don't just talk about the projects they like and the ones they don't like. And if you focus on the debate there, I think, of course, it will be doing the workers and the government a favor, because the government, as I said, is taking the initiative, working in coordination with the workers, with the company itself, and we are also in touch, Mr Bará, with the creditors, because in that variable is where the company's future is. I hope that, simply, the BNG — as it moved to the previous question — would not come here to plant a solution like Alfageme, because you knew the situation that Alfageme had, they took over with the full irresponsibility of 32 million euros, that the Greeks had to pay the euro for an irresponsibility of the Nationalist Galego Block. So that's not the position of the Government, that's neither, Mr Bará, the position of the workers; it's not because I spoke to the workers themselves. And, of course, the Galician Union will act with responsibility, because, indeed, we are responsible for managing the money of all the Greeks. So we're going to work on a realistic business plan, so there's a fluid dialogue, and, of course, we've transferred your responsibility to the company to find a solution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u300	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u301	...and, of course, we transferred the position of the Government to give you all the help you need, both to the company and to the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u302	Thank you. Question by Da Maria de la Concepción Burgo López and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the actions planned by the Government of Greece to recover the two medieval pias belonging to the church of San Xian de Moraime, in the municipality of Muxia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u303	Question by Mrs Concepción Burgo of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u304	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me begin by saying and remembering that one day like today, January 24th, forty years ago, the killing of Atocha took place. I don't think it's too much to remember now that we're going to talk about the Franco family, because Franco's dictatorship died by killing, as demonstrated here, and because in addition to goods, Franco's family, Franco's dictatorship, has usurped people's lives. [[Applause]] But today what we want to talk about is some goods, some goods that have been expropriated by the Franco family, because it is not only Meiraes' palace and the sculptures of the Arctic. In this case there are two medieval stone pyres, probably from the 12th century: one baptismal well and another blessed water, which were in the church of St. John of Moraime, in the municipality of Muxia. We know that about 1960-1961 Carmen Polo, the dictator Franco's wife, has gone through Moraime and has become encapsulated from the furrows, without taking them further. We know that because there's an 1980 notary record where Moraime's parish priest at that time, in 1960, reported it. He said exactly this notarial statement — he is in Spanish —: "About 1960, Ms. Carmen Polo de Franco, wife of the then head of state, visited the parish of San Julián de Morime and asked for the two batteries described to take them to the palace of Meirás, warning the parish priest that he had obtained the corresponding permits." I make a point: this means that Carmen Polo knew he should ask for a permit, he knew what he was doing. Cerro or inciso, and said to the notarial record: "The next day of the request appeared in the parish a truck whose occupants stated that they came for the charge of the allusion of the lady to carry the batteries, so they did not leave time to obtain the permits. Don José Barrientos, the parish priest at that time, then allowed the performance of the occupants of the truck." It would seem to us all, given the time, that it was normal. It was called by the Archbishop of Santiago and the vicar, who did not agree to give such permission, but there was no way to deny it, and they say the archbishop and the vicar that: "they decide not to claim at this time the batteries given the identity of the person". Well, this, which can be understood in 1960, cannot be understood in 2018. These chickens belong to the church of Moraime, to the municipality of Muxia, and as such...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u305	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u306	...they have to come back. So, even though I'm from the Church, I think you have to say something about it, too, and I'll say it in the second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u307	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u308	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Madam President, perhaps in order to maintain the parliamentary focus on the Franco family — a question that happened in the past session, and which seems very good to us — there is a forgetfulness on its part of two issues, of a series of issues that we understand are very relevant to the two medieval lands that you mention here, belonging to the Church of St. John of Moraime: The first thing to point out is that, according to the information that has come to our day — and you also quoted here — is that the pious were removed from their original placement in the church around 1945, about. Some witnesses point out that it was the parish priest who decided to change the Baptist lands and move the original pieces into the courtyard of the royal house. The board knows — you also put it on the table — because the existence of a notarial document explaining that around 1960 there was a visit to the church of the dictator's wife, and that Carmen Per's instances of the pieces were moved, to what was recommended — you cited it as well — to obtain the appropriate permissions. The same document exposes that, after allowing the removal of the pieces, the parish priest informed the Archbishop of Santiago de Compostela, and apparently at that time, because the Catholic church, as the owner of the lands, did not take any action. The pieces were actually invented by the Catholic church, but they were not included at that time in any catalogue or inventory of furniture; furniture protected by its cultural value. It must also be noted that the pieces at that time were not specifically protected — since they were withdrawn before 1972 — by being not part of any protected immovable property. It must be borne in mind that this monastery and its church have been declared historic by Decree 2641 of the year 1972 of 18 August, and therefore it has the consideration of good of cultural interest after this date, being subject to the legal regime of protection which for these goods establishes both the state law of 1985 and the autonomous law of 2016. In this context, we believe that Junta must maintain a prudent attitude, and already, as in other cases, respect that it is the legitimate owner of these pieces the diocese of Santiago de Compostela, which is the original owner, who decides whether or not to execute a claim to the heirs of the Franco family. If so, the Galician Council — and there have been recent cases — will of course support in this case the Catholic Church as legitimate owner to claim goods — understood from the church — that were subtracted in an absolutely irregular way, which, of course, we have also done in a similar case, although not identical, with respect to the Town Council of Santiago, when it is claiming the statues of Master Matthew that at the time were subtracted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u309	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u310	Thank you, Mr. President. What I am from the Catholic Church is tested by the works books, that the Catholic Church has to do something, I have no doubt about it, but now who I am talking to is with the Councillor of Culture, who also has a responsibility in this matter, Mr. Counsellor, because you are the greatest guarantor of this country's protection and preservation of artistic heritage. I want to think -- and if not, I ask you -- that you will be concerned as cultural advisor, and as a cult man too, that you are in the hands of those who should not have medieval pieces. You will be concerned, and if you are concerned, I believe that the minimum is to speak in the Joint Committee of the Catholic Church, which has just been set up on this subject. If the Catholic Church wants to do something, I think it's her obligation to collaborate, and if she doesn't want to do anything, I think you still have greater responsibility, which is to convince the Catholic Church that she has to do something. What you can't afford is to put aside a problem of this size, Counselor, because this is not just a problem of a private owner, this is a problem of general interest. This is a property of all the inhabitants and neighbors of Muxia, of Moraime, and, by extension, of all the Greeks and all those around us and we want to defend the cultural heritage. That's why you can't stand aside, as it seems you're saying, and you can't stand aside, Counselor, not even if the Church doesn't want to do anything. It is your duty to speak to the Church and to establish — from my point of view — a strategy so that the Franco family, on the one hand, cannot continue to go on the edge of the law, as it has been in many things, and it continues to be after eighty years, and cannot stand at the edge of conservation and conservation, Mr. Counsellor, of a very important heritage for all the Greeks and all the Greeks. So you have to do something, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u311	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u312	Indeed, Madam, criticisms and opinions are very legitimate; they are certainly very legitimate, but the facts you describe here are preconditions for this good to have some kind of cultural protection, and of course prior to Galicia's taking on the competences in the field of cultural heritage, long before. We're talking about parts that are not owned by the autonomous administration, but their legitimate owner, hypothetically... well, hypothetically not, it was at the time of the Catholic Church, and obviously, if the Catholic Church, through the diocese and the parish, wants to initiate a procedure to recover and claim those pieces, just as it was done with the Town Council of Santiago, the Council of Galicia would support absolutely, but that corresponds to the legitimate owner, who in this case is the Catholic Church. Obviously, as I said before, of being able to justify and prove that there is no or that there was no more or less legal prayer at the moment, questionable or not to the Franco family, for the pieces would return to the property of the diocese and the parish, which, of course, would have to decide on its location. But, of course, here we seem to be talking about what we are interested in alone, Madam, and you, in your explanatory statement, speak of a particular person who made protests, who made a series of allegations. The truth is that these facts have been denounced by a particular individual, indeed. But it is no less true — and it is also surprising that you do not quote it — that the file which was opened on the basis of this individual's complaint was closed in 2007; that is, it closed and archived the file, by the very instance of the individual. Of course, it makes sense that this matter is now very much of a concern to the Socialist Party in this case, and that in 2007 it didn't matter, because I remind you that in 2007, even if you weren't running that area, which was an area of the BNG, you at that time closed a complaint of a particular oriented, precisely, that these pieces would be transferred back to the Catholic Church. With which, Your Honor, I believe that the position of the Board is very clear, it is very diaphany, and it is simply to respect the decision of legitimate owners. And if the legitimate owner — which is the Catholic Church — wants to recover those goods, of course the Board, as far as possible, will help him in what he can, as we have done and we are doing with a case, as I said before, similar, though different, with respect to the Town Hall of Santiago with the statues of Master Matthew. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u313	Thank you, Counselor. We are now debating three questions in an inclusive way, one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, another from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the other from the People's Parliamentary Group. Question by Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia to preserve the artistic, documentary and bibliographic heritage of the Gallego Centre of Buenos Aires Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures it has taken or plans to adopt the Galician Union to ensure the Greek title of the cultural heritage of the Galego Centre in Bos Aires, as well as for its protection and value Question by Raquel Arias Rodríguez and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the current situation of the Galego Centre in Bos Aires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u314	First of all, Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u315	Thank you, President. Mr. Councillor of Culture, as you well know, at the extraordinary meeting held on December 18, 2017, the partners of the Galego Center in Bos Aires decided to authorize the start of talks for the next sale of the historical building and health management to society formed by the Spanish group Rivera Saúde and the Favaloro Foundation. Founded in 1907, the Galego Center in Bos Aires can say that maybe it's the safest center of the Welsh diaspora in the world. In addition to its sanitary and surgical facilities — where it died, by the way, Castelao in 1950 — the centre has an important library, an important phonoteca, the theatre Castelao and a pinacoteca, with works of high artistic and heritage painters, from Seoul, Castelao, Laxeiro, Sotomaior, Maside or Colmeiro, among many others. In 1933 — and it must be remembered — his associates publicly expressed their support for the autonomy of Galicia, which was reiterated in June 1936, as the Council of Galicia itself reminds us. In the 1960s, the mutual came to have more than 100,000 partners. And in 1990 the German Government granted him the Golden Medal of Galicia for all its work throughout history and for keeping Galicia's representation alive abroad. After more than five years of intervention by this entity by the Argentine authorities, due to its severe economic and assistance crisis and the successive approaches to Galician Union, we have witnessed a possible sale of the Galician Centre of Bos Aires which may put at risk not only the immaterial and affective value that this centre represents for our migration but also causes also worrying uncertainties in health care to its partners, and so now it is for us, Mr Counsellor, in the preservation of this important cultural heritage, which contains intense ties to collectiveity in Argentina, transcending its borders. The plenary of the Gallega Culture Council itself, as we know, at its meeting on January 9, 2018, with the assistance of the President of the Union, and on the basis of articles 27 of the Galician Law and article 4 of the Galician Cultural Heritage Act, has just proposed that all necessary measures be taken to safeguard the integrity of this legacy, granting it the consideration and legal and institutional protection, similar to that which it would have to be located in Galician territory. Mr. Councillor for Culture, not only is a cultural legacy at stake, but precisely the historical memory of the Welsh and the emigrants, and that is why, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we ask you: although these conversations, these negotiations, are not yet clear, but may be the opportunity to do this work, what measures are you planning to adopt or are you already adopting the Greek Government to preserve this important artistic, documentary and bibliographical heritage that contains the Galego Centre in Bos Aires? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u316	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. The question is now raised by Mrs Olaya Rodil of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u317	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all, and good afternoon, Mr. Rodríguez. From the Galego Nationalist Block we also wanted to ask you today about the future, as it was now explained, of one of the emblems of the diaspora, home of the emigration and of the Greek exile in Argentina; a fundamental place in the history of this country and for the Greek community on the other side of the Atlantic. The future of the Galego Center in Bos Aires is increasingly uncertain — we have recently heard — and with it the future, as it was also said, of the cultural heritage, which preserves paintings, sculptures, antiques, an important library, photographs, sound and documentary archives; a fundamental set to know and understand our history, that of this people, since the beginning of the 20th century, and especially from 1936 onwards. Even though it often focuses on real estate, on paintings, it's not just pictorial works. We're talking about a very important documentary, photographic and sound background, where conferences of Blanco Amor, Otero Pedrayo, Risco or Castelao are recorded. The Centre Galego keeps a fundamental and immensely valuable part of the memory of this country's Galicianism and nationalism. What will happen to the Galego Center, to its cultural heritage, to the future of the care and health services it provides, in Argentina, concerns the Galician community, more also the territorial Galician community, in the only Nationalist Galego block, but also to the statutory institutions — as previously mentioned — which have recently spoken in this regard, as the Council of Culture, which, as we want to do today, remind the Galician Union of its legal obligation; legal obligation in article 4 of that Heritage Act, which obliges them to protect the heritage abroad, especially the localized and rooted in Latin America, and in article 27 of the Galician Law, in which even the transfer of that heritage is envisaged — in a special way — in the case of the documentary, sound and immaterial — so requires it for its preservation and preservation. Therefore, this obligation to protect him, to safeguard him, to preserve him, to disseminate him and to make him available for his study and knowledge, beyond and beyond the sea, also in the Union of Galicia. That's why we want to ask you today, Counsellor, what you're going to do to protect it, to keep it, if you've held a meeting, some meeting with representatives not only of the central directive, but also of the Argentine authorities, and what is the proposal you're defending to meet your legal obligations. You said, throughout the events that happened, that they would act in case the heritage of the center was threatened. We believe it is, and now we want to know what you will do about it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u318	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Mr. Raquel Arias, of the People's Parliamentary Group, has now raised a question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u319	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Galician debt to emigrants is undeniable. The emotional, cultural and economic interdependence between the Greeks, they reside where they reside, they stay, they stay, they're safe and they're going to stay in time, regardless of space. Argentina, and particularly Bos Aires, is also a special place in this interdependence, and the Greek centres, which in every place in the world are a fundamental reference point for immigrants, sleep, if any, in Bos Aires. The Galego Center in Bos Aires is a special reference, perhaps because it was a reference to emigration in the health issue, when in 1907 it was founded and gave it that part of the assistance that otherwise the emigrants there would not have. It's also to have, in the moments of splendour, about 120,000 partners, although at the moment there are only 6,000 of them left; and, of them, about 700, they are the only ones who are Welsh. But perhaps one of the most important reasons for this special character that the Galego Center in Bos Aires has is the immense contribution to the galeguity, culture and history of Galicia that made the emigrations of Galicia that they have agreed or passed there; among them, they quote and tell intellectual illustrious stories like Otero Pedrayo, Cunqueiro and Blanco Amor, of whom we have the reserved voice in sound files that have the center itself, and of which we also have the photographic archive. Works of writers such as Castelao, Cabanillas or Vilar Ponte, among others, that make up part of these 20,000 volumes that has the library of the Galego Center in Bos Aires, not to mention — or counting also — paintings of the most important occupants such as Seoane, Laxeiro, Maside, Dolores Freixas; and, in addition, numerous sculptural works. United to all this is also the collection of original musical scores and even the entire collection of the magazine that is published there from 1913 until today; works many of them that have been acquired and others that have been easy, but that are there and that are part of our culture, our history. We know of the interest that the Galician Union shares with us, that it also shares — it has been said here — the Galician Council of Culture and that it shares the groups that have asked its question here. We know that from the President to yourself and the Secretary-General of Emigration have been interested in this subject, but we want you to answer: how does the German Government value the current situation in which the Galego Centre in Bos Aires is located today?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u320	Thank you, Mrs Arias. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about one of the most emblematic entities of our emigration, of our diaspora, as is the Galego Center in Bos Aires; an entity, an institution, which has been about 110 years, which started walking in 1907, the 2nd of May, that is, more than 110 years ago, and that at that time it had a clear objective, that it was to meet the needs of the Greek society that were in Bos Aires, which had a kind of weakness, since there was no health care, and obviously there were a number of problems that this center has largely addressed. From the very first moment this institution has helped to overcome the difficulties — many serious difficulties — that faced a significant part of the Greek immigrants who were at that time in the capital of the Silver River. And the truth is, it was also thanks to the social collaboration and the impulse of the Welsh emigration at that time as if it was building an institution, an entity, of enormous relevance. His contribution to galeguity, in this case in Bos Aires, is immense, he has had many recognitions, and above all the important thing is that it is a whole entity, in this case in Argentina and in Bos Aires. This entity — it is also known, quoted here — has not only been limited to providing healthcare services or health services, but has also worked in a decisive way in cultural development; in cultural development in the broadest sense of the word, which has been hosting throughout its history an important pictorial, artistic, bibliographic and documentary heritage, which is undoubtedly basic to understanding our contemporary history in a period where Galicia, unfortunately, did not enjoy the quotas of freedom and progress that it has today. Obviously, this government, the Council of Galicia — not today, but any Union of Galicia and any Government of Galicia — has always recognized the enormous role, the great work done by this institution. Obviously, it is also true that — and I think I don't say anything new, that we have to say it — we have to focus in some way on what we're talking about so as not to be mistaken or, in some way, not to be mistaken in the diagnosis and therefore also to be mistaken in the solution. The interest and concern of the Greek Government for the cultural heritage of this entity has been evident over the years of our autonomy as well. Following the current process of intervention, which took place in 2012, the Heads of Immigration of the Galician Union — all those responsible for Emigration of the Galician Union — met — also the representatives of the Galician Union in Bos Aires — with the speakers of this centre, and always, on every occasion, expressed concern about the situation, in this case, of the artistic and cultural heritage and also a full disposition to collaborate with the Galician Centre, with its owners, in order to be able to dynamize, put in value and preserve this vast and rich heritage. On this line, very little has the President himself transferred these same ideas personally to the President of the Argentine Republic, to Mr. Mauricio Macri, and also, recently, the President himself to the Ambassador of the country in Spain. But we must not forget something that is very important, we must not forget: that this whole process is being solved in another country and that all the cultural elements of which we are talking about — which are very important culturally for Galicia — are subject, in this case, to foreign legislation — as we say it in a quick way — even though, obviously, they have a very important significance for us. In addition, the fact that Argentina's legislation on heritage is similar to that of Spain is quite guaranteed in everything it has to do with the protection of heritage and everything it has to do with those elements of artistic and cultural interest; obviously, with a reason that we will all share, that is to protect and maintain its heritage in its territory, even if it is a cultural heritage that, from a cultural point of view, for the Greeks can have and have significant cultural and historical significance. Having said that, the German Government — we have also said it — fully respects the will of the Germans of Bos Aires who are within the centre of Galicia. I think it's something that we'll all share there too. After 110 years of managing and serving thousands of Greeks, they are now in a very difficult situation. But it's them, the Germans of Bos Aires, who somehow have or are responsible for watching and considering the cultural references of the center of Galicia. The Greeks there have said: they want to continue to maintain the heritage value, the assets, in their protection, within their shelter. Of course, the Galician Union will fully respect that decision of the Greeks who are within the Galician Centre; on the other hand — they share it with me — it would be to miss the Greeks who are currently living in Bos Aires, living in Argentina. With this, we fully respect the will of these Greeks to continue to manage this cultural value. Obviously, I also want to make it very clear that the Greek Government is not at the forefront of these events and that it is very attentive to all the steps being taken in this negotiation process, of course, to act in case this very important cultural heritage really gets threatened or is out of the direct management of the Greeks in Bos Aires. Of course, I would like to insist that we always respect the decision of the Germans of Bos Aires, of the emigrants of Bos Aires, because they are their owners. And you also know that there was a meeting in December of last year in which a series of decisions were taken in the economic and sales conditions — which, of course, we are not going to enter, since we are talking about other issues — but in the specific issue of the bibliographic, artistic and documentary goods the very Assembly of Partners of the Centre of Wales proposed that these cultural goods should be kept in direct management, in this case, of the Greek heirs and the Greek owners who are in Bos Aires. That is why I believe that the Greeks who are in this center wanted to leave from the very first moment very clear — and so expressed it from the beginning — to the future buyer — in case the sale takes place — whoever they are, who want to continue to maintain direct management, direct ownership and direct responsibility over the cultural and heritage assets of this entity. And, obviously — it is also true that they are in a negotiating process and in that negotiating process there are always strips and afrouses — they will have the support, in this case, of the Council of Galicia if this process does not reach a good port. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Welsh of there, of Bos Aires, have clearly announced to all those who want to hear them that they will defend until the end their goal of achieving a space that unites, preserves and enables all the Welsh of the rich cultural heritage: paintings, sculptures, recordings, bibliographic pieces, etc. And since the Galician Union we clearly say that we have a constant follow-up to this negotiation. There is a constant knowledge of the steps being taken through the Joint Delegate and through the Secretary General of Emigration. Of course, we are going to respect the decision of our brothers there, of the Greeks in Bos Aires, and we are going to contribute to safeguarding the cultural values of the center of Galicia — bibliographical, pictorial, artistic and documentary — because we are aware — and I think we will all agree — that a significant part of our history and culture is deposited there. And if you're there, or you're in the hands of Galicians, it's like you're in Galicia, because Galicia is much more than the four provinces in which we're lucky to live the Greeks that we're here. Also in any city —Bos Aires or any other city — where there are Greeks who feel Greek and respect our culture there is Galicia, and they want to continue to maintain their rich cultural heritage within Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u322	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u323	Yes, Counsellor, precisely because Galicia is not limited to the four provinces. That's why I think we bring this question to the House by the various parliamentary groups. Of course, we realize that we are in an area of international relations — we are operating with Argentine legislation — that it seems to us that — as far as we are concerned — there are talks by President Feijóo with Government Macri and that there are collaborations between the embassies. Let us take advantage of those special relations with the Argentine Republic to facilitate all these issues. I don't think, Counselor, that we're here suggesting that we miss our Greek brothers and sisters in Argentina precisely when what we're demanding and putting on the table the problem of helping them defend this heritage. In the conditions, precisely, that were imposing partners in the sale process, as I think somehow reported, they were even establishing the necessity that the purchasing entity would give as free and permanent data precisely to the mutual the entire heritage fund. I believe that, precisely, Galicia's own legislation in this matter — as is both the law of Galicianness and the law of Galician cultural heritage — is establishing a plus of obligation to the Greek Government on this occasion too. In that sense, I believe that exactly what the Greek Government has to do is not only to be alert, but to take advantage of this opportunity to be able to resist this negotiation process and strengthen the conditions in which our brothers in Bos Aires can ensure conservation for them and for the entire heritage of Galicia, which is not only within our borders, precisely, of this vast heritage. It's a personal matter, but during the parties of this Christmas my father-in-law -- who's been working in those years, for ten years, in the 1950s, in Bos Aires, and they felt welcomed by each other -- told me a question that I think we should take into account -- he's here -- the only thing we've ever expected...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u324	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u325	...it's not a ballad in the middle of Belgrano Avenue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u326	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u327	It's a matter to be taken into account, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u328	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u329	Thank you, Counselor. I imagine and I am almost sure that you know that the negotiations between the company that was interested in buying the Galego Centre in Buenos Aires and the representatives, the different figures and the various agents who were engaged in that negotiation process were broken, and that this situation — which we are not going to look at here now — was largely said by the representatives of the committee of that Galego Centre directive, who were part of the negotiation process — at the breaking point of the centre. And I'm saying that we're not going to analyze here now for the kids, or for the kids, the economic situation of the center, but what's true is that this break in negotiations, in this case with Ribera Saúde, which puts us here is at one point, if not critical -- what it welcomes us here today, which is the future of that heritage -- which is very complex, so it assumes, that this heritage, as other issues that make up the Galician Center, can pass on to creditors or even the Argentine Government because, as you already indicated in the previous interventions, the Argentine Government intervened the Gale Center in Bos Aires in 2012. We, in that sense, asked ourselves and insisted on the question we were asking; that is, what are the proposals that the Greek Government has in front of this scenario to ensure, for example, that we respect the will of people, of the Greeks and the Greeks, who integrate this Galego Center in Buenos Aires, that the heritage is not scattered, that everything remains together, and that it can be musealized perhaps? Are there any proposals? Do you have any proposal for the Government of Greece to muse this heritage? Do you have any proposals to safeguard their integrity, to preserve it, to protect it, to enhance it? We will ask you — and with this finished, President —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u330	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u331	...that they're informing us. We'll ask you to send us periodic information...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u332	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u333	...to this House too to know what measures are being taken...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u334	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u335	...and what are the results of the measures they take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u336	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Replica, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u337	Yes, thank you. In his first speech, Counsellor, it became clear that the German Government is following very closely the situation that is living at the Galician Centre in Bos Aires, watching to protect and preserve the funds that are there in the crisis situation that is living there, but you also said that it should be taken into account that it is a situation of private funds, and that it is the owners of these funds that ultimately have to have the last word. This is very important, from our point of view, since although there is no doubt about the interest it arouses in all the future that awaits the heritage funds it treasures — in view of that possible sale of the mutual, which is not what the funds themselves are, but the mutual, which is what you are talking about — it must be very present — I insist — that it is a private property, with all that this entails. And in this context it also reassures you to know and hear that the owners themselves, the very partners of the Galego Center, differ and want to preserve in all negotiations what is the cultural part, the part of cultural heritage that has stored there from all their funds. It is also important to note that they are protected by Argentina's law; a law that is, in this case, very guaranteed with respect to the protection of the heritage of interest. And I also believe that it must be stressed that, in any case, the Greeks who are there and who have need will be assisted in any case. But in spite of all this, I give you the fact that you're going to go from the government very close to negotiations, you're going to follow the situation, and we're sure we'll have a chance to know how you're going here, at parliamentary headquarters. Of course, from the People's Group we're also going to follow this situation closely, and we thank you for the work you've done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u338	Thank you, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u339	...to the present.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u340	Thank you. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u341	First of all, we are grateful for the quite broad coincidences that the parliamentary groups are having in this case with the action of the Galician Union. We see that we all want the same thing, that we all have the same concern; perhaps there is a difference in times, because this is also due, on the one hand, to the responsibility that the government has to have, and I'm not going to say responsibility for the opposition groups, but if I'm going to talk about greater joy on the opposition groups to pose a number of aspects, since, obviously, if they were in the sphere of government, they would think absolutely differently, I don't have the slightest doubt. I think there's an important match. That coincidence is that what we have to do from Galicia is to respect the will of the Greeks in Bos Aires. It wouldn't be practically expropriating your will or expropriating your way of being a Welshman, in this case in Bos Aires. I say this because in all of this negotiation process, which is a complex, hard process, I suppose that with strips and blueberries, obviously, the Greeks there always said they wanted to put, aside from all this process, the rich and important cultural heritage there deposited, to manage it, as they did over these decades, directly them. I think that's an important piece and that's something we thank you for thinking the same way we think. I also believe that it is positive that they are aware — and I think they have just said it — that this is subject to foreign legislation, Argentina's legislation, and that, despite the fact that it is an undeniable cultural value for Galicia, for our feeling as Greeks, it is no less certain that there is an Argentine law that has its procedures and steps. Mrs. Rodil tells us they've already broken the negotiations. I think it's a frank statement, at least bold. What is true is that these assets are governed by the laws of Argentina. They're private goods, a private collective, and what's also true is that the messages we have say there's a certain communion of ideas between those who want to sell and those who want to buy respect, in this case, of property goods. In other economic matters we don't enter, I don't correspond to myself, but in the heritage and culture, of which you are asking the questions, because that's right. As I have already said, the Greek Government will be very attentive, very attentive, and is following very closely all negotiations both at the level of delegation of the Galician Board, as well as from the organs of the General Secretariat, in this case, of Emigration, with the embassy. I myself have just sent a letter, a letter, a letter, to the Minister of Culture of the Argentine nation expressing our concern about this subject and suggesting that this cultural legacy enjoys maximum legal protection to ensure its preservation. We also had, personally, meetings with the Galician Council of Culture, and I know perfectly what their planning is, because they meet with them, also through the Immigration Archive. I would summarize the position of the Galician Union — which I think is the coherent position for Galicia, the position that respects the will of the Greeks in Bos Aires and the position that allows to protect this cultural value — in a series of words: the first, concern; the second, prudence; and the third, attention. Attention and action, but that action must not, in some way, precede events nor should it precede strategies either. Concern, prudence, care and action, and all this taking into account, first, the will of the Greeks in Bos Aires and, second, taking into account the legal framework in which we move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u342	Thank you, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández, G.P. of En Marea, on the forecasts of the Galician Union regarding the recognition of professional competences and the training necessary for the acquisition of the title of technical or superior technique at Electromedicine Clinic
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u343	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counsellor of Education. The Royal Decree 835/2015 regulates the title of technical or superior technique of Electromedicine Clinic, giving it official character and validity throughout Spain. It was a lawsuit fought by different professionals to be able to promote training and professionalism, but especially so that the service we have in our health centers is the best. So, since this real decree exists, we have a training cycle in Spain to prepare workers and workers who take care of the maintenance and installation of health technology systems and equipment, but this is not yet applied or there is no training in all autonomous communities. This machine is very specialized machinery, we talk about incubators, surgical tables, electrocardiographs, TAC equipment, X-ray equipment, which is not simple, which is complex, and which requires specific training. There are already five autonomous communities that provide this training of vocational training, which bets for an improvement in the qualification and quality of care that is also offered to patients; obviously, better maintenance services and better services also affect the quality of care. This training is not provided in Galicia. We'd like it to be so. But today we don't even ask you about this circumstance or about the public job offer—it's also here the Health Counsellor, who is another question that, of course, concerns us and that we have already brought it to the committee—but rather we ask you about the absence by the Galician Council of this professional qualification. Royal Decree 581/2017 called for the incorporation into the Spanish legal system, in addition to the European Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, and it is to be respected; therefore, there are sufficient legal tools, on the one hand, for you to recognize a profession that exists, and that exists for the whole of the Spanish State — that is, you cannot choose — and, secondly, for you to enable the mechanisms to recognize these professional qualifications — there is a lot of noise.... However, despite the regulation of the recognition of these professional competences and the regulation of the profession, in Galicia we continue without recognizing this profession for these workers, who also suffer outsourcing. So we have trained professionals, we have people who have enough training, even professional experience for years, but they can't work in the centres of the Galician Health Service with that training and therefore offering that training that they already have for the improvement of our health. The reality is that there are other professionals without specific titration who are taking care of these aspects, such machinery, so sensitive within our health system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u344	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u345	So, Counsellor, we want you to tell us if you'll recognize the professional skills of these people, of those professionals, so that they can work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u346	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u347	...in the public health system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u348	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u349	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good evening again, Madam. I'll try to give you an answer to something that, in the end, you know, since this very similar issue was discussed in Commission 5th, and also because you have a written response, in this case of the Health Council, which was delivered in October 2017. Of course, this is a very technical matter, covering two councils, and I will try to be as didactic as possible, but maintaining and keeping the technical rigor that deserves this question. In this case, there is a royal decree that was passed by the Ministry of Education in 2015, Royal Decree 838 of 21 September, where, in fact, the title of senior technician at Electromedicine Clinic is established, and the basic aspects of the curriculum giving rise to this title are also raised. And there's a fact that can't be ignored. The decree itself embodies the title in the professional family of electronic electricity, not in the family of health, which is related to the issue laid down in Law 44/2003 on the management of health professions. Therefore, to equate this qualification of FP with others referred to in health professions does not correspond to reality. You, if I may, show a certain lack of knowledge in this area of the sector, as a senior technician at Electromedicine Clinic works primarily in maintenance — so say, in summary — of machines. The general competence of the Master Technique in Electromedicine Clínica consists in the management, assembly, maintenance of installations, systems and equipment of clinical electromedicine, considering, of course, the recommendations of the manufacturer, the requirements of quality and, of course, all that has to do with the safety and maintenance of applicable legislation. But you also seem to forget another question that appears in the additional fourth provision of this royal decree, referring to the regulation of the exercise of the profession. The Ministry's own rule says that the established title does not constitute regulation of the exercise of the regulated profession — it is a question, I insist, very technical, and I am trying to be as didactic as possible — because, said this, it is possible, of course, to adapt the curriculum regulated by the Ministry in the real decree to the characteristics and needs of Galicia. From the Education Council could be done; we would be at the disposal of the Health Council to do it, if necessary, that it is necessary to do it and deal with it now. But, as I've already told you, the issues I have just told you, which are very technical issues, put this outside, from a professional and titration point of view, of purely health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u350	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u351	Counselor, there are workers, electromedicine technicians in the gallery, and they're waiting to hear a favorable response from your band, because you imagine for a moment something: I myself, who study nursing, and they put my work to any other professional, let's put, for example, a physiotherapist, or put, for example, one in a higher or lower category. It's not that profession or it's not that responsibility that you have to take over the professional skills that I have with my training. That's what happens to those people in the gallery. There are people who are trained, who have recognized their qualification by the Government of the State and therefore is applied also in Galicia, and yet they cannot work in their profession. And what's worse: there are other people without that training taking care of maintenance elements, of elements that are sensitive; and we're talking about specific machinery that is used in ICU, surgical and other public health services, in this case. Therefore, it is not to be accepted that people are not allowed to hold office in Galicia but in other autonomous communities yes and that later they are not recognized their competences, and therefore they cannot work on what they have training. There are people upstairs who are in that situation. And that in another case there is no possibility that our public health service may have specific professionals. I believe that this is not a problem of reading understanding — I believe you do not have it either — but that you comply with European legislation, and of course that of the Spanish State itself, which regulates, on the one hand, professional competences and, on the other hand, the profession of technical/technical electromedicine. We've been talking about this for a long time, and in addition, we've been talking about the privatization of electromedicine services in our country, with that failed contract with Iberman, that disaster that was done by the Health Council. And I think it's time that our services have the chance to have professional degrees and information, because we have them, and I think they're pretty good.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u352	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close this question, Counsellor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u353	Mrs. Solla, in her second speech, I think that at the bottom of her speech, she's giving her reason for the government's position, because you're saying that a profession has to have a regulation and its own competences assigned and that this is regulated. You mentioned the nursing, like any of the others, and indeed there is regulation, there are some competences, and so must it be. And in this case, because the degree of superior technician in clinical electromedicine belongs to the professional family of electronic electricity rather than to the family of health. I think that's very important. And it is also clear that all of this is due to the regulation of the competences that you cited — and we agreed there — as well as the contents that are within the curriculum itself and of course by the teaching attribution in this case. I'm going to take a written reply that you have, which was given by the Health Council in October last year, a few months ago. That is why it is said — health care — that it lacks the foundation to place this collective in terms of its job expectations — of future employment, I mean — under the dependence of the Galician Health Service, in the same plan as the professionals in the health field of vocational training, because it corresponds to another area which is entirely different and which is regulated, as you say, by a legal area. In addition, it is also stated in this written reply that it is not clear that health institutions need to incorporate their technical staff with an electronic electricity titration. And you know that because it was delivered to you in writing. In this case, the Council — as I have already said — would be at your disposal, as in other vocational training qualifications, to adapt the state regulatory framework to the characteristics of Greek education, whenever in any way there was a need or demand for or raised by what you say are potential employers in this area or students who know about this educational field. With which, I think, given the competences, taking into account the real decree and taking into account what we just said to you, that you already knew, because you were handed over to you in October 2017, the professional family and professional competence of these professionals — which I do not doubt at any time of their training or their professionalism — is regulated as it is regulated, and, of course, we would be without any problem available to do so always and when it is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u354	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the reasons of the Government of Galicia to wake up the reduction in the number of beds in the new building of the University Hospital Complex of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u355	Give a voice to Mrs. Blanco's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u356	Now I think so. Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The advances of her Government's scissors in health care are noted in a special way in the province of Ourense and, in particular, in the Hospital Complex. The problems, which have already been piled up by these cut-off policies, saturation in emergency services, this unbearable waiting list in primary care, not having a 24-hour pediatric surgery service, not having either hemodynamics, lack of beds — also caused by the closure of Piñor Hospital — are piled up to what should be solutions and which are the problems that are generating the extension of the Hospital Complex, by the way, with a year and a half of delay, and why this parliamentary group has asked on numerous occasions. What problems? So many and very hard to expose in three minutes. A cleaning strike for the maintenance service that has just been convened; problems in palliative care and psychiatry units; and what brings us here today: the decrease in budget allocation from 41 beds to 36. I know that there is no reduction in beds, which follows and there is going to be 41, but it is true that the human resources that will be used to care for these patients, to take care of these patients, will be 36, which will involve, Counsellor, a new over effort of the staff at their service -- I don't know why he denies with his head, because that's right -- a continuing decline in the quality of the service itself. And the first thing I want to ask you is why that budget reduction and what are the reasons. Look, you probably deny with your head, as you're doing right now, because you don't talk or listen to the staff that depends on your department; we've seen it this past week. The center committee was closed for a week, Counsellor, seven days, in the hospital complex hall, making rounds 24 hours a day, asking to meet with the health adviser, and you did absolutely nothing, you didn't get in touch with them, you didn't receive a single call from the German Government or from the U.S. delegate, nor from the mayor of Ourense, nor from the president of the Deputy, from any position of the institutional People's Party, who are occupying all the institutions in the province of Ourense. You, Counselor, why do you despise this staff, to which I especially want to thank you today for being here, because they've been sleepless and exhausted for many days, they've collected exactly 17,000 signatures. Because of course you're not with your staff, but the city of Ourense and the province is. And these days he saw himself, because — I repeat — in a week, 17,000 signatures. And I want to ask you, in addition to the reason for this reduction: when are you planning to meet with staff at the Ourense hospital? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u357	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u358	Thank you very much, President. First of all, say I don't wear any scissors in my pants, but you always wear a camera. Look, to say that the Galician Union is not involved in health care in Ourense, after making an investment of almost 50 million euros between the health center The Couto and the new hospital in Ourense, I think it's demagogic, totally demagogic. From now on, we believe in health care, in public health, we believe and defend it, and we defend it where we have to defend it, and for that we have management teams that have been in contact with all the staff and also with the table, trying to reach agreements, and I think a good news is that today they have decided to leave that closure. I think it's important that they can talk, negotiate and try to coordinate with the management team. By the way, that just before the closure they had a meeting where, as they say, there was a very good response from the management of the hospital. So logically we have a team, which is what you have to do that kind of work. I don't think they're in charge of the People's Party and of course the mayor of Ourense, who has other competences, but they're not the sanitaries. The reality is that we have a hospital that with its expansion gained in functionality and integration, has increased its assistance capacity, in comfort, definitely eliminating triple rooms, moving them all double and individual, with a maximum capacity of 900 beds. You yourself, in the argument I made, contradicted the question you ask, the reasons that led the Government to make the decision to reduce the number of beds. And tell me, no, I know the beds haven't gone down. So why ask this, if you specifically say it isn't? I agree with you. They didn't reduce, they didn't reduce. The opening of the new hospital, a hospital building, last October allowed the spatial distribution of the various services of the Hospital Universitario de Ourense, grouping and centralizing the hospitalization areas in a single core, formed by the expansion and the crystal buildings, surgical and maternal infantile, dedicating the building Santa María Nai exclusively to outpatient care without entry. The new distribution of spaces was based on the proposals of the management and the working group formed by optional, health and non-health professionals, with the aim of focusing and prioritizing the functionality and care needs of patients, based on the proximity of the services that share areas of knowledge and functional interdependence, promoting synergy among them for the best integral functioning of the whole complex. This rearrangement of spaces has enabled us to respond to historical demands such as unification in the same internal medicine hospitalization block, for years separated into three buildings, with the creation of neurosciences, which integrate neurosurgery and neurology,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u359	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mr. Vázquez Almuínña pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later. [[Applause]] Replica, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u360	Thank you very much, President. Look, Counselor, whenever you want, I'll give you the photos, seeing that you don't go to the health centers or have any contact, because it has to be others who do so, because we have a counselor who doesn't have enough humility or enough ability to listen, to go down, and so I say, in your language, to the hospital center to talk to staff at your service. So look, that agency you're going to negotiate with is that it turned out that it was the same thing that came to an agreement with the 41-bed center commission and the agency itself blames the Health Council, so let's agree that it's the agency's fault, if it's the Council's fault, and stop throwing the pimpon ball from one side to the other. And I repeat: you haven't contacted these seven days, not a call to be interested in what were the reasons why these workers were protesting, like the Public Health Platform, or a call. And, yes, I mention also, of course, the mayor of Ourense, since this is happening in the city of Ourense, and I feel that it bothers you because it is the People's Party; if it was another political force, in another moment of what was spoken here from another hospital, it was day after day to hear about the mayor of Vigo, Counsellor; with which, please allow me to speak today of the only mayor of the People's Party of the entire Autonomous Community. [[Applause]] And I'm telling you, Counselor,... city, forgiveness, forgiveness, ladies and gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm also mistaken, like everyone else, gentlemen, of course I am. And this hospital that you have done, Mr. Counsellor, which has wifi, which has a large garden on the terrace, would be very nice if it were a hotel complex, but it is still an example of this government's cosmopalism. Yes, yes, yes, gentlemen, do not do so, because all the modernity of the world and then the overloaded health personnel with tremendous efforts they have to be doing. [[Murmurs.]] And I'll ask you again, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u361	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u362	...when you're planning to meet with the health personnel you're here today? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u363	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u364	The truth, Mrs. Blanco, has definitely removed the face. Of course, she's not concerned about health, but about the political issue of Ourense, which is what concerns her. [[Applause]] We're worried about the health issue. And look, the paletism we're using turns out it's recognized by the European Union, which gave us innovation funds at Hospital 2050, and we're Spain's first health innovation community; something we'll have; and it turns out that in Ourense it's the highest percentage. I think it's not paletism, it's trying to get a certain clear strategy. We have an aging population and we have to give answers. Europe knows that we are a region that is imitating and will surely give a healthy response to what is going to happen in the European Union within a few years. The extension of Chou meant an investment of more than 41 million euros, which allowed a new area of 52,000 square meters, of which more than 24,000 correspond to the hospitalization area, with seven plants and fifteen units, with a total of 472 beds, well communicated to the rest of the areas of income, surgery, diagnostic tests... Is it true that these days there was a peak of attention for the flu and other respiratory disorders? Yes, as in the rest of Galicia, as in the rest of Spain and even — as we said earlier this afternoon — also in Europe. But, curiously, in Ourense we have more facilities, more square meters, and also more personal than a year ago, when there was a flu epidemic, as it happens every year. And there's also an increase in staff, not only square meters, because we keep saying and we continue to appreciate the magnificent work that professionals do all day at the Galician Health Service. And logically, of course we've increased, we've significantly increased that structure, that staff, with an increase of 6% where it's the recruitment that corresponds exactly to those 123 extra beds, 105 more hired professionals to attend to this occupation at a moment of peak overlight, as we used at any other center. We're doing Ourense for the next few years, but we're not staying here, we want to keep moving on. And we want to move forward in the Plan Director, and we still have a lot to work on, and we want to improve the old hospitalization of the block we're using so far. And for that we need a good project, which we're putting in place, and also, of course, being able to act at a time when the occupation goes down, which is not this moment at any time in any year that we know. I think we have to leave that demagogy and say that, of course, in Ourense, we are moving forward with an involvement of the Union, and that we are also moving forward in matters of personnel, with the stabilization of staff through the OPEs,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u365	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u366	...that, as I say, we are of the few health services that have them every year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u367	Thank you, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández, G.P. in Marea, about the inforomation provided by the Galician Board in relation to the agreements signed by Sergas with a company manufacturing medical equipment and specialized in technology
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u368	Question by Mrs Eva Solla, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u369	Mr. Almuínña, between 2016 and 2017, the Galician Union signed a framework agreement and four specific agreements for the health areas of Lugo, La Coruña, Santiago and Vigo with the American multinational Medtronic — as you know — a manufacturer of medical equipment and specialized in technology. According to this framework agreement, the Galician Health Service says it aims to improve operational efficiency and contribute to the generation of specialized knowledge, and also says that this signature aims to develop its knowledge and capacity. The reality, Mr. Almuña, is that the specific health-related agreements, such as the CHUS one, allow the company to reorganize the assistance units subject to the agreement at its expense. The truth is, you want to put us behind what you weren't able to do with clinical management units, rejected by professionals. The global set of agreements allows the company in the hospital management of these units through the application of business criteria and principles, of course business, by assessing their needs and interests, questioning or conditioning the medical care provided by the Galician Health Service in them, making it available both the set of public resources and the information of the public health system itself. In front of this news, which is absolutely incomprehensible, the Association of Patients of the Hospital of Santiago, under Act 1/2016, of transparency and good governance, and Law 19/2013, of transparency and access to information, asked you for information on the annexes accompanying the conventions, as it appears reflected in them. This Member has done the same thing. And you also replied in writing, despite the legal mandate that obliges you to answer both those people, to that association that has requested you, as well as this person, to be a Member of Parliament. For you have the undoubtedness, in addition, to repeat in the written reply, of saying that you are not defending the company, but you are appearing in the "commercial secret", of course there are articles, such as article 3.1(a) and article 3.3 of the law, which force you to respond to this information. In addition, the article states: "With regard to reporting obligations, this law shall apply to any private entity that receives or manages public funds or whose activity has a public interest or social impact in accordance with the provisions of this Article." We asked him if you and the Galician Union consider it normal to put private interests above the right to information from the citizen. Counsellor, we are tired of the fact that the interests of multinational companies are in the interests of health. They're continually penetrating our public health system, with their satisfaction, and still above us we have to assume the withholding of information. We want you to give us an answer and know if you're going to give us that information.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u370	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u371	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. As you all know, the Galician Union and the independent public sector entities may conclude agreements or legal instruments similar to other public and private authorities and entities within their respective jurisdictions. The Health Council guarantees public coverage of citizens' rights and provides the Galician Health Service as a body responsible for the provision of services and their management. As such, it systematically seeks to improve methodologies and actions that lead to better health outcomes, to improve the quality of care, or to improve efficiency. In addition, our centers are great knowledge generators, indispensable to advance these improvements. In the health issue, we are aware that technological advances contribute to better diagnoses and treatments, and on many occasions through far less invasive and cruel procedures for patients. To develop these projects, we need to work together with different agents, from academic centers to companies. Here we have to mention, for example, the joint research units. This is precisely the objective of the aforementioned conventions: to advance in technology that contributes to better diagnoses and treatments. First of all, we have signed a framework agreement which sets out the conditions to be adjusted by the parties, in order to articulate and implement proposals that are effective in generating innovation, with the aim of improving health care outcomes for patients in the Galician Public Health System. Precisely, in this framework agreement it is established that the concrete actions to be carried out will be developed through specific agreements, in which the conditions necessary for their definition, development, implementation and execution will be met. Conventions which specify the technical, legal, temporary and obligations of the parties. It is explicitly established that the object of these agreements cannot imply economic consideration for material or benefits necessary for its development which may be subject to administrative recruitment, and which do not impose any commercial obligation or economic consideration on any of these parties. So, of course, the object of the agreements, and I say, they're not meant to allow the company to participate in hospital management. You just said, "They're going to reorganize health services." No, it's the health services that continue to run, as usual and according to them, all health management. The agreements, once signed, were published on the website, so that any interested person could know them, as prescribed by law. Interestingly, the honourable Member has a lot of information, so it must not be so dark. And of the three requests there, only one of them was refused, which I will leave for the second intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u372	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u373	A great answer, Mr. Almuño, to the definition of what a convention is. I'm going to define what the Medtronic company is. The Medtronic company is an American multinational that is linked to the venture capital funds, to the pharmaceutical industry and to the food industry — its directive comes from General Electric, the same ones that you gave them exactly high technology in the Galician Health Service -- the Apollo-like funds that have private hospitals, and they also have in their direction members of private oncology companies and even members of aircraft companies, both civil and military. Those are the people who now manage part of our health services. Because it's not true. You replied to me that you could not answer me and that it was not to cover up — say — the interests of the company, but that it was the content of professional secrecy. Indeed, there are a number of agreements which are published or which have been provided, but which condition the specific conditions under which the Galician Health Service agrees with the company attached to the agreements, which, oh, chance!, are the ones you refuse to provide. But we have knowledge, because some media has published its content, which actually says that you hand over the machinery to that company, that they give away the possibility that they test their machinery with patients in the service, that in addition the works run by the company, in exchange for you letting them use our public hospitals, and that the company will condition the use in accordance with the interests of these tests, of that management or of that alleged research that they do in our public hospitals. You're not only hiding information and lying, you're making it easier for private companies to penetrate. Patients have no idea what they're doing with their personal data. We have no idea, and even the honourable Members and the Members deny them information, why they are selling and under what conditions our public health is. I could answer, and I could also provide that information to the Patient Association.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u374	Thank you, Mr. Solla. Question closing shift, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u375	The truth is, I don't know why you ask me anything, if you say you already know more than I do. The truth is, it's amazing, it knows Medtronic from above. He really has a lot of information, and he says he knows the attachments we said he couldn't, for legal caution. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You may have a higher legal education than the Legal Counsel of the Council, but that's what they say. And what they say is that they have granted access to the specific framework agreement and agreement with the three hospitals, and they have denied the corresponding to the annexes because they understand that there may be a problem with the confidentiality of the data, a commercial or industrial secret. I, of course, don't know if it will be or not, but at this moment you've been taken to the organ that has to regulate it, and he'll tell us. Anyway, I don't think it's gonna be necessary, because you say you already have the information. So I could talk to the Patient Association and pass that information on to you, if you consider it. And tell him: we are currently awaiting that legislative remedy that the Association has presented within the transparency and good government commission. For one thing, our advice tells us this, which must be denied access to attachments. If the Commission understands this in another sense, it will. Anyway, tell him everything you say has no basis. We're not selling anything to the private company. We have controls on what health data are, total and absolute controls. And the most important topic of confidentiality in public and private, of course, is health data, and we have the behavior of all the extraordinary organisms, as could not be otherwise. So that's what he says. The services agree and the services are coordinating anything to improve the diagnosis and treatment of their patients. And I think we have to work together from the administration to improve this. At one point we were called pallets ten minutes ago to meet innovation and improve the quality of health services. And I think Galicia is showing that she's in innovation, that she's in research. And, of course, we're not going to put up any barriers to providing a service that still improves the high level of quality that the Greek Health System already has right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u376	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and six other Members of the G.P. Galician people, about the current situation and the measures taken by the Government of Greece to deal with the flu epidemic in hospitals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u377	Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u378	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. With your vendetta, Mr. President, and with Mr. Torrado's permission, I'll ask you a question from the Counsellor. You're not surprised, Counselor, because we're going to talk about flu, we're going to talk about health, we're going to talk about emergencies. We're not going to talk about anything else. In recent times, we have seen an important increase in emergency health care in hospitals in the Galician Health Service network in relation to the annual peak of influenza disease, which this week seems to refer to normal figures at this winter time. As in previous years, the Galician Board of Health has taken a number of measures to address the maximum guarantees for this aid increase, with contingency plans and staff reinforcements to minimize to the extent possible the difficulties that can be presented in the emergency services of the Greek hospitals, in the same way as in other autonomous communities or even in other developed countries around us. We know that this year was relatively important for the advance of the epidemic presence of the virus, similar to the prevalence of a type B or Yamagata virus, not included in this year's vaccine for not having circulated in the previous year. As in other years, counsellors have had an intense campaign of advertising and health education urging people over the age of sixty or with risk factors to vaccinate against the disease. Approximately 57% of the target population has been vaccinated, a figure that seems scarce in view of the evidence of the severity of possible complications of influenza disease in elderly people or with concomitant pathologies. I believe that since the People's Group we value — and I want the Sergas workers to know — in a special way all the work and effort of professionals, and we also regret the inconvenience that has been caused by these agglomerations to users. The situation of the emergencies of the Greek hospitals has had a very important impact on the media, generating an important social alarm in the face of accusations by trade unions and political parties against the Government of Galicia. For all the above, we have asked you the following question: how is the situation of the flu epidemic today, and what measures have been taken by the Greek health authorities to deal with this situation of increasing care in our hospitals in the face of this disease? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u379	Thank you, Mr. Núñez. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u380	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Centeno, the truth is that we have been conducting a day of evaluation of everything we are doing since the council, I think it is very positive, because we can put on the table the excellent work that all the professionals in the public health system do. As I say, we've already started in the first half of the year. We will now begin, soon enough, preparing the campaign next year with the purchase of vaccines, which are, as I say, those used in the Western world, in the face of the epidemiological initiatives and study that is often given in the other hemisphere to find out what kind of virus it is that can affect us in the next season. And then we started renewing contingency plans by talking to all professionals; professionals are involved, professionals sign contingency plans. Obviously, everything is better, so there's always a later revaluation; that is, what things we can incorporate. And, of course, we did a vaccination campaign that I think is successful, because we increased it both in patients over the age of sixty-five, who have a special risk, and also in our professionals: they are in contact with a lot of patients with chronic diseases; so it's very important that our professionals are also vaccinated. And we're still acting: there's been an expansion of the largest number of hospital beds; logically, there's also an important incorporation of staff, reinforcements in all professional categories. I was talking to the chief of microbiology at the Coruña hospital the other day. They do a work that no one knows: in very few hours, when an analysis comes, they know what kind of virus is affecting the patient, and they classify it and hospitalize it in certain rooms to avoid infection. It's a dark job that no one knows, but it's a job that pre-priventivist, microbiologist, all working in jail. We're not just talking about shirts, we're talking about all the intruders that are at the health level to respond to what the population needs. So when people — determined political parties — are the only ones who describe them are real problems that exist — and there are, so we have to give an answer — we do not value, we do not value everything that professionals are doing continuously to improve this situation. It is a problem — we also say — that affects all autonomys, all European countries; in cold season, this happens. What we have to do is improve the facilities year by year, and so we're doing it. The first is the example of Vigo. Not many years ago — not Bipartite — patients who had no beds to enter went to private hospitals. Right now we're integrating, watching directly with our professionals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u381	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u382	...on both the Cunqueriro and the Mexeiroiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u383	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u384	I think that's what we have to tell you, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u385	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u386	...if you're giving up on a day-to-day basis...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u387	He's got another shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u388	This is the only work of our professionals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u389	He's got another shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u390	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u391	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Núñez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u392	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, it is clear that the situation is not the one that we want to see the opposition groups. Of course, these people, these people of these groups who were ruling a few years ago, here in Galicia, didn't think the same thing as they're saying about this. So it was said that there could be a Japanese professional strike, that the sick as they arrived at the Emergency Service; or prominent members of health platforms, who continue there, who said that the problems of saturation came from the lack of health education of the population, who went to the Emergency Office because he was afraid of dying with the flu. Of course, then he didn't rule the PP, he didn't rule Mr. Feijóo. The fact is that any hospital has to be, and is, dimensioned to meet the daily needs of care demand, and that at certain times of the year, or even in the face of some disaster — we cannot forget the sad accident of Angrois — facing situations of health stress, in the face of which the health authorities have an obligation to take steps to improve as far as possible the problems of users and the system. Even though the opposition is trying to blame you and, by elevation, the president of the board of all those problems, we know that you do not rule in Andalusia, not in Aragon, neither in Valencia, nor in Catalonia, nor in other autonomous communities where the problems are similar to the Greeks and, according to the SATSE union, greater than those that happened in our hospitals. We urge you, Counsellor, to continue to move forward in the measures that are being developed in the facilities of the various emergency services and to further develop those annual contingency plans of the different EOXI, incorporating the necessary personnel and enabling the precise beds for these situations of increased demand. We would also like to study measures to increase the rate of vaccination and to speed up the hospital discharges of patients entering the plant to facilitate the drainage of emergency services. If you want to, we'd like you to expand the data you gave us in the first answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u393	Thank you, Mr. Núñez. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u394	The truth is, we think we have to go that way. Indeed, the use of this theme has another purpose, which is of course to try to wear out the Government. But I think it's a mistake, because, in the end, what is health is everyone's health, it's not the health of a political party or even a government; it's the health of a whole population that pays their taxes so that we have this magnificent health system. So I think we should have a collaboration between everyone to keep on improving. There are many times things that are not real, and I want to give some data. The number of professionals working at our council was 36,500 in 2008, at this time it is 38,050; family doctors in 2008 were 2,434, at this time 2,600, 7% more; in nursing, an increase of 6% more, too, of workers; in the staff chapter, logically, an increase of 1431 to 1500, 136 million euros more in chapter I, of staff; 6133 places convened in the annual OPs, which do not do in other health services. But, too, they talk about budgets and they say that at some point they've declined. In 2008, the Sergas budget was 3,531,000; now in 2018, we have just approved a budget of 3,783,000 — an increase of 7.1% —. But, curiously, in Article 25, health care for the media — which criticises us both the opposition — in 2008 was 216 million, and at present 205 million: 10 million less, 5% less spending on the media than in 2008. Surgical interventions, 6.6% more, comparing the two years; major outpatient surgery, one hundred percent more, 2008-2017; 13% more hospital consultations; as for the average waiting time — as it has been observed these days — according to the data published by the ministry in July 2017 we are the fourth community with the lowest average waiting list of surgical response times from all over Spain. I think it's a very positive data. Number of TACs in 2008? 187,000; in 2017, 269,000, an increase of 44%. Magnetic resonance imaging? From 70,000 to 95,000, 34% more. Day hospital sessions? From 232,000 to 289,000, 24% more. More activity, more personal, more budgeted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u395	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u396	Very good health that I think we all have to keep. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u397	Thank you, Counselor. Finish here... [[Mr. Torrado Quintela asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Torrado? What do you want the word for? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no. I'm sorry. Forgive me. I'm going to ask what's going on. What do you want the word for? Give your voice to the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u398	Thank you, President. In accordance with Article 76.1, for some inaccuracy on my assessment of the question put by Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u399	I didn't notice any inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u400	And if you'll allow me to explain what it was, I can...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-24-DSPG057.u401	No, no, I'm not going to allow it because it's a reply to something you mentioned at the time, it's the reply that the honourable Member gave you right now. Thank you.
