ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. Mr López Crespo and Mr Daniel Varela have been justified in attending this plenary session. We're on the agenda. Preliminary point, pursuant to Article 7 of the Regulation. Promises or oaths to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia of a New Member
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u2	I am seeking the promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of autonomy of the new Member. According to the procedure, the formula is "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. Let's stand up, please. You too, Madam, do the favor. I'm asking you to answer the question I'm going to ask you. Mrs. Julia Torregrosa Sañudo, do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u4	Thank you. Once the promise has been made, you shall acquire the full condition of the honourable Member. Welcome to Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u5	Thank you. [[Applause]] Annual Report of the People's Valuer for 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u6	We've already come to the first point on the agenda. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Pursuant to the third rule of the regulators of relations between Parliament and the People's Valedor, adopted by the Bureau on 28 May 1991, the debate of the plenary of the annual report will be adjusted to the following procedure. First, the people's valet will present a summary of the report before the Committee on Petitions on 26 April. At the end of this session, the sitting room will be abandoned, and Members and Members will begin their deliberations. In accordance with the order of action provided for in Article 80.1 of the Rules of Procedure, the representative of each parliamentary group may intervene for a maximum of ten minutes each to determine his position on the report submitted. As a result of this debate, no motions for resolutions can be tabled because they are informative, without prejudice to subsequent regulatory initiatives. For that, first I pray the Vice-President to accompany the Valorative Lady of the People to the rostrum of speakers to make her intervention before the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u7	You have the word of the people's valet, Mrs. Miracles Otero Parga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u8	Mr President of the Galician Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Bureau of Parliament, spokesmen for parliamentary groups, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am before this Parliament today to report on the activity of the people's Valator institution during 2017. It's an honor for me to introduce myself to you, democratically elected representatives of the people of Greece, to inform you about the state of the exercise of the rights of the citizens of Greece. The institution of the People's Valedor has once again fulfilled the mandate of this Parliament, with seriousness, fairness, impartiality, objectivity, dedication and the pursuit of justice. We have attended thousands of written complaints, spread a broad presence in the municipalities and institutions for which we have been required or invited, and participate in national and international meetings where we have been asked for some approach. We organized the XXXII Public Defenders Coordination Days, on the issue of transparency development, and we attend presently to all the people or associations who requested it. I'm allowed, first of all, to give them some indicative figures of our work. During 2017 we attended 29,365 complaints, on 2,359 issues. Of the total resolutions issued by this institution, 76% were accepted. This figure is important, since a high degree of acceptance of Valador's resolutions is a sign of good government. In addition, one cannot forget that more and more assiduously we do not need to make recommendations, because the Administration meets our criteria before it has to. The data provided is broken down in the written report, so your lordships can know any other information that refers to these numbers, in which I will not stop anymore and that they show that the institution of the People's Valedor worked in a hurry, issued hundreds of resolutions and has a strong implementation on our land, which allows you to reach the authority necessary for your recommendations to be heeded. Since this institution we have dealt with all the requests for action made by the Greek people expressly and also with some others that we have started on our own. I'll tell you about them, but first I want to start my report by reporting the institution's performance lines this year. They respond to many of the problems your lords brought to my attention last year. I took care of them all with absolute dedication and commitment. A year ago his lordships pointed out the discompensation between the complaints from rural areas and those that originated in urban areas. You were right. I therefore proposed a meeting with the representatives of the parliamentary groups in which I explained to them that the statistics offered then that distinguished the rural environment of the urban should be better explained, because they did not clearly show the origin of the complaints. Nevertheless, there was a decompensation that had to be taken care of. Immediately we started to do proactive work to improve the situation of people in rural areas. The first action to be taken was to bring us closer to the specific problems of the Greeks living in this environment. That's why I announced a campaign of proximity to rural areas. We have written from this institution to two hundred municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants to know first-hand the problems they have, especially as regards the functioning of social services and the care of risk problems of social exclusion. I am moderately satisfied with this initiative, which I think will continue to increase, because I am convinced that there are still a lot of problems left to be solved. Among the problems arising as a result of this approximation were manifest situations of a very varied nature, such as those relating to the neighbouring property of the mountains, their cleaning, the need to adjust public transport, the problems arising from the lack of staff in health centres — especially pediatric care — the difficulties in telephone communications, electricity and Internet services, the optimization of pasture lands preventing their abandonment, the destination of burned wood or the attention to agricultural organisations in rural areas as dynamizers close to the citizen of the rural economic activity, by simply quoting some of them. The result of this activity has increased to 12% the complaints from rural areas, a hopeful situation that encourages us to continue working in this area. The dedication to rural, which was implemented cross-sectionally, did not neglect other municipalities and urban populations. In 2017 I continued to open the institution, personally visiting locations such as Carballo, Monforte, Marín, Curtis, Lancara or Avia Carballeda, to quote some of them, which, as can be seen, are in no case found among the most populated or urban in Galicia. My attention was also drawn to the shortage of official complaints that started in 2016. I remember that at that time it was 21, figure that rose this year to 224. We have also investigated more problems than ever before, referred to topics such as school dining prices, the reservation rate for persons with disabilities at the September call in the Greek universities, the distribution of fishing quotas in the autonomous community, the plague of Guatemalan potato curfew, the situation of helplessness of a pregnant woman who had no place to live, the risk of social exclusion of some people for the delay in the collection of risk, delays in disability assessments, performances in AP-9, accession to empty housing programmes and the new transport plan. In some of these investigations we obtained a good result, getting involved in changing situations and attitudes that attacked the full exercise of the rights of the Greeks, and in others we continue to work. We've also done a task of involvement with linguistic rights. On this subject this institution wanted to be proactive, enhancing an increasing awareness that there are individual and collective linguistic rights, and that, with full respect to the freedom of all speakers in an autonomous community in which Greek is a co-official language, everyone's right to live in Galicia's own language must be guaranteed. We deal in particular with the protection of the Welsh toponyms, adaptation of road signs with attention to specific traffic regulations and the promotion of the use of Galicia's own language. We also work in favour of the incorporation of Welsh into web pages and also manage the facilitation of the entire processing of civil marriage in records, substantially in the Crown, in the Greek language. We worked in favour of our language by initiating a complaint that contributed to the promotion of self-school manuals in the English language, which was an old demand so far not met. On the edge of these petitions, which I think have been duly resolved, I can't forget other ones that you and we continue to work on. Among them, the shortage of residential squares for our elders, the problems arising from home support services and the critical situation of the Greek pensioners, especially Venezuelan pensioners. With regard to all these situations, we took action and remained attentive to its results. I don't forget them, because I think the lack of due attention to these rights generates realities of extreme injustice that must be corrected right away. This institution must address the structural problems of Galician society, because they limit the present and future effectiveness of its rights. We cannot ignore the fact that our work takes place in the attention, listening, counseling and assistance of citizens. With this spirit, I want to move to your lordships a fact which I am very concerned about and which I think is the germination of many of the structural problems of Galician society. This is about the investment of the demographic pyramid. Galicia is an autonomous community with a proportion greater than 65 years of age than 24.33%. We note that in the Spanish population, being one of the oldest in the world, the proportion is 18.60%. This situation is dramatic in Lugo and Ourense, at 28.71 % and 30.65 % respectively. In Galicia there are around 430,000 children and boys under 19 years of age and 660,000 people over 64 years of age, which shows a regressive pyramid. There aren't many children born, there are fewer young people and, at the same time, less social security contributors and more people who need various health services, in a very dispersed society. The Greek social services must care for many more people, proportionally speaking, than many other places in Spain and must do so, in addition, in more difficult structural conditions. Today in Galicia, there are up to 760,000 pensioners, while there are 960,000 contributors. This problem is increasing and will continue to increase. The Greek women carry the worst part, because to the discrimination they suffer, and which was patented this year in the follow-up to the March 8 demonstration, they have to add up other added charges, because they are usually the ones who have come to bear the need to reconcile working life and family life, those who actually care for older people or disabled people and those who, in short, take care of everything. This situation is real and must not be disguised, and until society as a whole does not understand it, the solution will be very difficult to achieve. To help alleviate the problem, we have created this year a specific and autonomous area within the Valedor dedicated exclusively to equality. We hope that with this initiative we will be able to contribute better to ensuring the real and effective equality of all Greeks and Greeks. Dependency care programmes account for 52% of the budget for social policies in Galicia. We are faced with a structural situation that requires a serious commitment on the part of society as a whole. We need to change structures and provide an axile and effective legal coverage that reverses long-maintained action schemes. Greek society needs all citizens, no difference between men or women, between adults and children. He needs everyone's abilities, even though these abilities are different. I want to draw attention to this problem today. I call for a structural change and I call for a commitment from all parliamentary groups to argue that equality is a matter of state, of our state, beyond partisan considerations. Social and financial policies are necessary to support women and families, because without children no public policy has a future. Galicia needs to protect its minors, especially those who have the most problems, such as those who need to be welcomed. For them, he must enhance the hospitality of an extended family, strengthening economic support for the welcoming families, so that his life, already in itself hurt, speaks, in the best possible frame, free from hostilities. It is necessary to give education a primary role, paying particular attention to the full effectiveness of inclusive education. The specific needs for educational support must be covered. Students should have special support in cases where they have physical, psychological or sensory disabilities, serious behavioural disorders, over staffing, social or economic disadvantage, chronic health problems or significant curricular disorders. That aid must arrive early. We must not forget that in order for these young men to enjoy the right to equality, they need to be cared for by the public authorities with certain inequality, the need to compensate for their particular situation. To achieve this aim, it is necessary to avoid delays in diagnosis and to promote coordination between the family environment and education, in a climate of trust, mutual respect and recognition, because only in this way can the guidelines of conduct that need these minors, under the premise that the interests of the child are one of the most in need of protection. It is necessary to establish booking quotas for students with disabilities, both in official studies of degree or master and in special calls. This year, we made a recommendation to the three universities of Greece, which was accepted, to develop the appropriate procedures to guarantee these students the reserve rate, which was not being protected. School harassment remains a serious problem that needs to be addressed in order to protect minors, given the suffering of victims. The problems of conditioning educational centres must also be addressed, respecting the budgetary possibilities. All of this must be done by enhancing the need to educate minors in values and by offering them alternative options that allow them to avoid behaviors such as bottle practices, clearly contrary to their rights. A special kind of harassment that worries me a lot is what lesbian, gay, transsexual, bisexual and intersexual people in Galicia suffer. It is important to understand that discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity suffers individually, so that if those who suffer do not properly explain their situation and the environment in which they live is not sufficiently aware of the reality of it, it is very difficult to detect discriminatory and abusive conduct, so that it does not act with the necessary continuance. I'm pleased to inform you that this year the number of complaints lodged with this institution has been reduced for that reason, this situation which does not cause us to lower our guard or understand that the problem is solved, but instead it allows us to be, if possible, more attentive to its actual incidence. Evidence of this is the open-ended complaints investigating the possible harassment of a transsexual child in his school, as well as the publication in a business journal of a alleged hate crime. Both matters have been filed, because it has intervened in them by the Prosecutor's Office, but they have been detected before by the Valador institution, in compliance with the generic charge received from this Parliament that urges us to respect the effective fulfilment of the rights of the Greeks. We celebrate the creation of the Galego Observatory against Discrimination by Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity, as well as the establishment of a healthcare reference unit for health care to minors trans, located in the University Hospital Complex of Santiago de Compostela. This institution, as an independent authority responsible for ensuring equal treatment and preventing discrimination against LGTBI people, shows its willingness to remain an active channel in the materialization of the rights of persons in the area which it is appropriate for it, i.e. in the supervision of proceedings on which discrimination or violation of equal treatment is reported, investigating the situation of persons who may be discriminated against in the handling of their complaints or complaints. This valet is committed to the aim of Galicia pushing a society that embraces diversity. We need to preserve an effective, equitable and solvent health system, according to the demographic circumstances of our country. It is necessary to organize effectively the management of health centres, as well as of all services, so that they can be compatible by optimising real needs and availability. I'm very concerned about the waiting lists, whose management has not just been correct, since they are not agile and transparent. We understand that the Administration must continue its efforts to provide a plan to improve this situation. As far as the humanization needs of health services are concerned, there have been some progress, such as what came from a complaint signed by 4,253 people asking for improvements in the automatic system of phone calls. I am also concerned about the appropriate distribution of the means available to public health, so that the services of the plaintiffs are covered. In this sense, we act in relation to the problem of the lack of doctors, especially pediatricians, because we defend that children have the right to continued pediatric care, a need that recognized the Council, compromising a plan of action, whose compliance we will monitor. Public employment has also been the subject of some recommendations. I am aware that selective appeals processes have been reactivated, that they must therefore be monitored and monitored, so as not to produce dysfunctions which hinder the legitimate right of the Greek people to have a public job on equal terms, only killed by legal circumstances of merit and capacity. One of the most sensitive areas where complaints are referred to is in social services. It is logical that this should be the case, because of the conditions — as explained — in which we are currently in Galician society. The majority of the complaints in this area refer to situations of exclusion or risk of social exclusion, delays in the care of dependency, delays in disability assessments, lack of accessibility and extension of the lack of payment of Venezuelan pensions, with all the serious problems that this carries. The problem with the evaluation of disability is serious. To try to ease it, I had some conversation with the Social Services Council and I was assured that soon many more review teams will be put into operation, which is a request widely made from this institution and that we will be careful that it really is a reality. It is important to note that this year the draft regulation of the social inclusion law has been adopted, still in process, which has been long claimed since this Valador institution and we hope that some of these problems can be solved. But we are aware that there are still many still to be solved, especially in rural areas. To look into them, I personally addressed myself in many cases and in others I asked for information in this area to first-hand know their problems. The answers we have obtained abound in the scarcity of access to risks and problems of attention to dependency. They also took note of numerous protection initiatives through the municipal social services departments, which must be known, grateful and empowered. As a general rule, I must inform this Parliament that there are some problems in the social field which are situations of serious injustice that should be addressed, since they affect the most unprotected people in society, those who themselves have less strength, less means and, in short, less chances of coping with them. It is my job to be attentive to the dysfunctions that can occur around them, because they considerably diminish the effectiveness of their rights, attacking their dignity and improbing the realization of material justice. With regard to this fact, I must report that social inclusion incomes, known as risks, have since 2015 presented many fewer complaints for delays, but have not decreased the claims for withdrawal or suspension risk, quantification, lack of recognition of new steps or additions or denial when the applicant has a poorly paid job. As far as the dependency is concerned, I must stress that, first, most of the complaints in this area focused on the approval or fulfilment of the care program. However, this year we also detected delays in the previous phase, i.e. in the previous evaluation. We understand that these delays must be corrected immediately, because they have very negative consequences for the enjoyment of rights. We also take care to identify a dysfunction that has had serious effects on the less-favoured people. I mean the need to equate disabled people with those with disabilities. The law already predicted it, but, in fact, it wasn't being done, which caused major prejudices, especially in the area of taxation. As a result of our intervention, the Council accepted our recommendation on equalization, committed to the development of a disability recognition document for persons with work disabilities. We also appreciate considerable delays in the assessment of disability. This reality has led us to open a complaint of our own in order to better know the problem so that we can contribute to its improvement. We were welcomed by the Council, which undertook to reduce in 2018 the times of issue of the recognition of the degrees of disability. Mention of the part deserves the chapter on accessibility, given that it has already completed the legally scheduled deadline for adaptations. That is why we have made an extraordinary report, which is already finished and will be presented immediately to this Parliament through the Committee on Petitions. I don't want to forget either the serious problems of the pensioners, ours and the Greeks who should receive their pensions from other countries, substantially Venezuela. Although we are aware that this problem exceeds the powers that we have assigned by law, we could not close our eyes to the serious injustice that our elders are suffering, so we interviewed the Social Policy Council to try to find a quick and effective form of assistance for the most serious cases. We are also interested in the matter of the Ombudsman, who has responded to our demand and is taking different steps to try to resolve it. The pensions of our elders worry us a lot. To better understand their problems, we personally receive the Constitutional Reform Platform for Pension Matters, which has left us a petition signed by 13,017 people, thus becoming the most numerous of them this year. We are aware of the needs of pensioners, and although, as I have already explained in the case of Venezuela, this problem does not come within our legally established competences, we will be alert to urgent solutions, because we understand that our seniors need it and deserve it. We're also concerned about the lack of predictive suicide in Galicia. To that end, we called on the Council to carry out a preventive bread and we were informed that they were already taking the necessary steps towards their approval. We also need or appreciate many problems in the field of transport. This is a serious situation in Galicia, because our land has a very dispersed population, which needs adequate means of transport, with regularity, coverage and reasonable speed. The problem particularly affects rural people, substantially referred to older people or children of school age. To try to improve this situation, two possible alternative solutions have been tested in our community, which are shared school transport and demand transport. It is essential that the Autonomic Administration step up the inspection functions to ensure the proper functioning of these new services, so that files are collected and the corresponding penalties are imposed in case of non-compliance. As far as the area of public works is concerned, we urge from here the need to have more agile expropriatory procedures and more aware of the deprotection of affected citizens. As for housing, efforts to collaborate and cooperate between different levels of administration are needed to optimize the use of empty public ownership housing, which must be kept in living conditions so that they can be used in case of proven need. It is not acceptable for a single person or unit of coexistence to be found in extreme housing needs, such as those that are still being given, both in rural and, above all, urban areas. Mention to the part deserves the environment. Noise in this area is one of the most serious and recurrent problems affecting many people in different municipalities in the autonomous community. We need to find the right mechanisms for harmonizing legitimate right to leisure and work in certain sectors, such as hospitality with the right to rest and personal and family privacy of neighbors. In the area of local corporations and municipal services, the most common problem during 2017 focused on defending the right of access to public information and municipal documentation, both for citizens and for local elected officials. This right has been strengthened by the entry into operation of the Galician Transparency Commission. It has also improved the progressive insertion of active advertising on municipal websites. Despite this, there is still the traditional resistance of some municipalities to facilitate access to municipal information, to which they have the right, to carry out their function as the control of government organs. All this problem is significantly compounded by the limited provision of personal and material resources necessary for the implementation of the electronic administration in administrative proceedings, despite the fact that it is a legal requirement since 2 October 2016. Similarly, I am concerned about the passivity of some municipal officials in the problems of invasion and occupation of the public domain, as well as in matters of cleaning the rustic strips and maintaining the services. I'm aware that citizen collaboration is essential in this area, but the matter must be resolved, because it hurts a lot and becomes also focused on possible fires. This problem is especially serious in rural nuclei, which suffer even more than urban ones, so the lack of fire fighting means refers to. This valet can't forget the most serious wave of fires that besieged Galicia this year, endangering lives and wealth. We're and we've been aware of the disaster, we can't tolerate any more deaths. We moved to some of the areas specially punished and we talked to the neighbors, we were concerned and we cared about people and their problems, and that's why we urged the competent council to speed up and facilitate proceedings, so that the people directly affected could access the planned aid as soon as possible in order to try to normalize their lives. The problems arising from energy poverty are also serious. We must protect the rights of vulnerable consumers who are severely vulnerable and who are at risk of social exclusion, including in the relationship of essential supplies. It is necessary to lend electricity to the housing and installation of users, without interruptions and with the required quality. There should be no limitations, such as the lack of an appropriate telephony service; difficulties of connection to the Internet, as is the case at this time, for example at the Courel; or cuts of light, which this year has massively affected certain places, such as the Command Council, with 200 requests, or the Rodeiro Town Hall, with 1,100 signatures. All these problems, which are serious in the application of the social bonus, are especially present in rural areas, bringing energy poverty increases rates in 2017 that have to be corrected. Another undoubtedly important sector in our community is agriculture. This year we had the important problem of potato pests as a result of Guatemalan cabbage. The seriousness of the matter led the Council, with which we have been in constant contact, to establish and regulate measures for the control of the plague. There are still a number of pending payouts at this time. We'll be careful that the Rural Council meets its acquired obligations, as they are an important part of the livelihoods of many of our farmers. Another area of work especially in charge of the valet is transparency. The development of this management presented the award to Spain's more transparent human rights defender, awarded by Transparency, for the second consecutive year. In 2017, there was an increase in claims addressed to the Galicia Transparency Commission. From 55 dossiers between May and December 2016, it went on to 132 in 2017; of that total, 111 were resolved, of which 25 corresponded to the dossiers of 2016. If we set ourselves in the number of claimants, in 2016 there were 34, compared to 81 of 2017. These figures allow us to affirm the best knowledge of what the Greeks are currently enjoying as far as their right to claim the public information they are interested in. As a general rule, the subjects whose information is most concerned refer to records in urban matters, information requested by trade unions and concellers at the municipal level, information requested by environmental defence organizations, specific heritage situations and data in general on selective processes prior to the entry into force of the transparency legislation. Citizens are also very interested in data on minor contracts. It is important to note that in 2017 the Commission was able to respond in time to all complaints received, despite the increase in related topics. As regards the work of the valet as Commissioner for Transparency in Galicia, I should like to point out that, as a general rule, the obligations of active advertising have been properly developed, except on time in local administrations. I want to finish by thanking you. I thank your lords for the courtesy of attending my report with an active ear, which I am sure will benefit the rights of the Greeks. I thank all the people's Valador team, technical and personnel managers of the administration and services, their work, responsible and dedicated, which makes it possible for us to perform our role. It is an honor for us to serve the citizens of Greece. Finally, I thank all the Greeks and Greeks who help us in our efforts to achieve a better society. I reiterate today my commitment to working to make that legitimate aspiration come true. This Valor will not be able to solve all the problems that are presented to you and will not, of course, be able to do them all, since plurality is a democratic value that defines Greek and Spanish society, especially in recent times, but I assure you that I will not surrender myself to defend the rights of citizens, because I love justice. For that work, which is an aspiration of the entire Greek society, I ask today, again, for everyone's collaboration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u9	Thank you, Valor. I ask the vice president to accompany the valet. Thank you, Valor. We began the round of parliamentary groups to set positions. First of all, the representative of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. When one, year by year, faces the report of the People's Valedora and takes a look at the sections of it, you can't even want to avoid a malicious smile by coincidence — I say right — by coincidence, but not by the interpretation given to it. Explain. The malice of smiling follows that more than 90% of the individual complaints, which leave out the rottenness of the system, are reflected in the summary of the initiatives that this parliamentary group has been carrying out in this Parliament over the years. His exposition was a whole program of intentions, which, if they were born of their experience in the complaints and further inquiries, should give thought to the whole society, all that, of course, if they had the proper social dissemination. I'm going, as I've done the other day in commission, to start with a sentence that caught me a lot of attention. In the area of urbanism, after careful consideration of the technical, legal and economic shortcomings of many municipalities in order to be able to ensure the legality of urbanism, after concluding that the protection of the territory, environment and urbanism in harmony is going to open up but that there is still a lot of way, the report gives us the key to this and other problems of this ill-treatment matrix — let me — when, when speaking of the lack of will to implement the rules of urbanism, it writes: "There are standards, but there are no technical, economic and legal means in the local administration to implement them in time and form, and in some cases we note that there is also a lack of will to carry them out. There is no doubt that proximity generates relationships of neighborhood, family, social relations, which influence the time to wake up or demand disciplinary measures." Perfect definition of caciquism, the source of all political evils, tears that, like plague, haunts this country, undermines the fundamental of PP's permanence in the power and root of corruption that eats us from within like cancer. [[Applause]] Let me have a reminder to the fires that devastated our home matrix last October and have a political reflection to those areas that have been threatened and affected by the fire in the most precious belongings, which are the dwellings and infrastructures, I often fruit of that chaos that we suffer in the peri-urban areas and that are the result of this democracy so on the right hand, allowing friends and intransigence to those who do not show that friendship or submission. The other day, I'm referring to education, the right and the difficulty of equally offering quality education, in the face of an unequal demography, and conditioning both the number of students as well as the social and economic reality. That school restructuring, made up of treason, without notice, with nocturnalness and alleviation, the last hour —Caxed Mount — and the warmth of summer and the revolt of people. His report detects significant deficiencies in the aspects that were supposed to advance the education system in recent times, the individualized education, the best of the pedagogical discourse of my teaching age. Yeah, it looks like the scissors on the right entered deep. The essential specialists in educational support with attention to students with educational delays or with disabilities about staffing, language, behavioural disorders, curriculum imbalances, mobility, ul? Energy poverty, which affects more than 15 percent of the Greek homes, shouldn't have lived in a society that boasts solidarity and modernity. And here we can link to public health, social concern and growing mobilizations. It's scandalous the cuts of personnel, of essential basic material, the waiting lists, the ridicule that is being made to the population in general with privatization, that the Government denies cynically and that people perceive in their own flesh, with those undercover businesses. Well, that's it. The other day in committee we asked you from the BNG why there was no detail in your report in which defeat is seen. Yes, the defeat sector is not in that report. That social sector which believes that it is not worth it, that everything — including value added — is theatre. Tired of impotence, they boast that we would call old wisdom, pass through, learn not to see problems, and throw away hope, because they have reasons for us — they are in their report — health, public transport, employment, social services, education, urbanism, environment, I know! If the report, which is very valuable in itself, is not discredited, demeaned and disseminated, showing incarnately the slots by which the system and administrations lose their essences; if the institution that the valet represents does not have the relevance and strength—we say—press executive, in order to be able to denounce, solve and influence, it becomes a justifiable ornament of a system that is aggressively shown to the majority of the population and protection of the least, the privileged; a system that, with a law-enforcement of equal rights and individual and social freedoms, is able to generate more than 25% of poverty, or generates an exploitative work reality, with greedyly infirm wages, excessive working hours, and a deliberately justified unemployment. 4% of extreme poverty, with alarming indices in younger people. An act of office on the part of the Valorative lady, who focuses her efforts almost 90% on social services, when they have to act more and more. Allow me: when the rich wives mounted up the rags of charity, it was a sign that their rich men made the poor needed; the same. Last year there were no complaints about the language either. I was talking to him about my granddaughters' rights. Not this year either, go! I think you mentioned the other day in commission to some complaints about Gloria Lake and company. Nothing out of the ordinary. They feel worse because the death of the Greek does not occur with the speed they — you — and the laws of the PP want. They've never felt contempt in their eyes, there's no complaints, and that's the big problem of language rights in Galicia: there's no complaints, because if they've stolen their consciousness, their obligation -- and I say good: thank you. It requires us to be solidarity and solidarity with the milk that has made us people, with the cultural identity, with suffering in the past and in the present of the whole of the Greek people. There you have the worthy lady to act on her own initiative, to clarify the cries of anguish of thousands of graffiti, with tender genes, who demand normal school, in the normal language for normal children, because they don't write to you -- they won't write to you. When they are great, they will claim that right and duty, driven by violence and the imposition exercised, for centuries, by the teachers to hate themselves, without any reason; dutiful, unsuccessful imperialists — I would say Castelao—. Population ageing says your report is worrying — and you're right — but desertification on the part of our territory is already dramatic. The two-thirds of our country are demanding only social services: attention, conversation, company, home help, people with an average age too high, senior centers, day centers, residences... but what they really claim is children's bullying, knowing that the world continues. The veins, the woods or the eucalyptus, the saddle of the car and the plow, the tractor in the pendant and the silence... In view of this, you must act on your own initiative, because they don't write to you. Boimorto, 2005, 2,456 inhabitants; Boimorto, 2018, 2,040; 400 inhabitants less. You have to use them, and there's no other way to re-enter the life that's been stolen from them: activate land and imagination, open markets, blow the door lock and let in the light. You'll have to learn the craft of acting in the face of these great problems, if your institution is more than just an office of lawyers for the poor and the desperate or more than an excuse for bad consciences. Year after year, the deficiencies come to light and we continue to pretend in the need for disclosure of this -- let's call it public service. It is there as a resource of despair; last resource: write to the people's valet. And as a last resort, they went to the Non-Touro Mine Platform, because they were denied due information from this government that wants us ignorant, without rights. I say "we" and you know why I'm included. I come back here again today in this full request for your support in the face of the "criminal" behavior of the Industry Council. They systematically violate the Statute of the Member, in Article 9; they are thirty days of maximum time to meet the requests for information required; "as if a car had been sung", we say in the village. [[Applause]] Finally, Valorante, you arm yourself with courage and, if you want to use this country, take the path of independence and act. Look, last year I told him about the rural people who didn't write to him and you tried to give them paper and pencils and the complaints increased, because there's enough reasons. You just need to force the machinery a little bit to make sense of your work. And he will.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u12	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning to the valet of the people and to all their teams, who accompany us today. "The dependency model is not that it was born late, but that putting something new into operation is always an added problem," "social policies with more commitment are needed," "There must be more transparency in the waiting lists in health," "There are bureaucratic pitfalls in the fires that some people cannot comply with." Those four phrases, meaningful, are yours, one of them in an interview this past weekend and the other three in the Committee on Petitions fifteen days ago. And maybe it's a shame that no government representative accompanies us for the intervention of parliamentary groups and also for the intervention of the valet itself; there were only two advisors in the presentation of the report and, when it's over, there's probably none. But the Government should take note of the four sentences, because they summarize their action in the last eight years. "Now there's more settled dependency files" is a mantra that we have to listen to repeatedly in this House for a reason that the valet put in value, because, first, we had to put it into action, and that's what we did on one side in 2007. There's no commitment in social policy, there's no transparency in health waiting lists, and you can't ask an 80- or 90-year-old person living in the Snows or in Avia's Carballeda to meet all bureaucratic requirements when you have to claim compensation for the fire strike in October last year, because I'm sure that person will barely be able to read and write. These four sentences are going to center my speech today, and we're going to talk about social policy, health and fires, because the report is tremendous, thousands of folios and it's impossible — as the BNG spokesman well said — to analyze each of them and to defuse that report in ten minutes. But first of all, I want to thank the Valator and his team again on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the work they have done. They answered 29,365 claims this year 2017, and that means, as we told you in the Committee on Petitions, that the citizen trusts in his work. And that, in the end, is a sample of democratic hygiene. Having said this, we think there's still a lot left to do, and the 233 repeated requests for information that you had to make to the Government show us that it is, that there's a lot of work left to be done. And you yourself, in that last weekend interview, recognized that you don't understand those 233 necessary requests for repeated information. And besides, citizens don't forgive. Next to his interview there was an inquiry in a newspaper written this weekend that said: "The 56.8% of citizens in no case justify the delays of the administration, and, with salvations, they do not justify 20.6%"; that is, more than 77% of Galician citizens do not justify the delays of the administration, neither in health care nor in social policy. And, ultimately, of these four phrases, Valorative, the erosion that the Government and its policies are making of the social state. You simply have to extract data from your report and we already have the result. According to the report, 92 per cent of the 224 complaints you make in the report refer to the functioning of social services in Galicia: assessment of disabilities, risk, accessibility or social care in rural areas. We miss, Valor, something your predecessor asked the Government for, and perhaps you can take into account for the next report or this year 2018: that you do not ask the Government for a rule of law that regulates the valuator of disability, of persons with disabilities. Because from the data extracted from your report, we believe that a special report and a rule of law that maybe regulates the valdor, the value of people with disabilities is essential right now. You say that, indeed, you appreciate a lot of delays in valuations and that sometimes — so you say — delays exceed two years. Well, in the province of Pontevedra it's not sometimes: it's always over two years; it's almost three. And for -- as I was telling you the other day -- those people who have priority attention -- children, people over 90, people who have terminal cancer or people who are receiving a non-contributory pension -- it takes more than a year to assess their disability in Pontevedra province. And, apparently, what the Council told you was that delays do not produce harmful effects, because their results fall back on the application. But, as you yourself say in the report — and that's true — that's not true, that's not true. Prejudice affects, for example, 100 euros per month of the Tax Agency for childcare; it affects, for example, the ability to receive scholarships from the Ministry of Education for Children, for pupils with specific needs, because they need the disability certificate; it affects the recognition of a parking lot, the recognition of rights and mutuality, access to university, access to opposition. So, simply, valuable, without euphemisms, the Council lied to him. It's not true that the effects will fall back -- it's true -- but when you can get back, there's already been so many prejudices on the road that it's not absolutely useful for anything more than a year in the recognition of this disability or more than three or about three in most cases. The Council also told him that it took measures already implemented by the existence of a management plan — which does not exist — for the training of staff in 2015, which simply delayed the processing of these files. That staff hired for six months, lengthened to nine months and had no training; the training had to be given to the evaluation teams of the Council itself in each of its areas. We're talking about Pontevedra province. He spoke to the Council of a collaboration agreement with Sergas as if it were universal panacea and that allows — without seeing people with disabilities — to make an assessment simply by accessing their electronic history, theoretically qualified personal, because they are doctors — says the Council — they are actually doctors, not experts in the evaluation of disability and who have received a training course in less than 15 days. You were told that Sergas 904's doctors had been sent files, of which 223 had already been evaluated, but they didn't tell you how many they had to return because they were wrong; two thirds of those files had to be returned because they were wrong. Nor did they tell him what the results of the pilot experience in Pontevedra were during 2017 and why it extended to the rest of Galicia this year. They're requiring data from you, Valor. They talked about the expansion of the RPT this year 2018. We want to see him. In addition, the Social Policy Council says that the possibility of extraordinary hours and extra gratifications for the axillization of pending dossiers is appreciated. I talked to social security team workers yesterday, and when I told them about it, I laughed. There are more complaints in health than anywhere else, 290, and that shows that something doesn't work. Junta told you, more or less, that we were alarmists, but the truth is, you've found out that there's an unbearable waiting list yourself. In Ophthalmology, in Pontevedra, 4,000 people waiting for waiting lists; because, as I said the other day, by the way, as they are older and have cataracts, what else if they don't keep seeing for a while? The lists are not real -- they lied to you again -- and in your report you say, "I must know the date of attention immediately." But in the meantime, darling, what do we do, what do those people who wait? And in the fires the October strike took thousands of hectares and four people died. There was a report — deep — of the Prosecutor's Office of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, there is a special commission in this Parliament, and perhaps we missed — I told you the other day — something more extensive about the fires. The first companies to collect compensation in the Snows — two — were charged last April, since October; for now, two. And we don't have any personal data. The compensation has been paid to the people who have suffered personal damage, but for the real damage that has not yet been paid, and there is no single official data about them. And we believe that the situation is worrying, especially because, as you said, in those places where people are much larger, they are effectively trapping the possibility of receiving these compensations to people who have lost everything. The other day you were talking about the protection of linguistic rights, and we asked you, Valor, and again we are going to do it here, to intercede with this parliamentary group. We take around six initiatives by asking the Government to give us data on the use of Greek in Justice. We don't have any data. And we don't want them to be affected by the fundamental right of privacy of the people who participated, who have some kind of connection in Justice, with the intervention of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, which has just imposed sanctions for the fall of Lexnet, even though the government denied it initially. And we'd also like to know -- we asked him the other day and we don't know if you could do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u13	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u14	... yes, I will end—your question at that time—as is the Montealegre Youth Center, if you have data about it, which has just been privatized. I'd like to end the next reflection. It was up to me to do the intervention in the report of the year 2015 of Valador. And I was asking at that time, derived from the report, for the cessation of health and work and well-being advisors. The health adviser stopped President Feijóo and that of Work and Wellness passed him to the Environment. With this new report we may have to wait...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u15	End, please, Mrs. Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u16	...... yes, finished, president— another year more or simply that the municipal elections arrive for the new headlines to be terminated as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. You have the floor for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea to Mrs Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u18	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning. Thank you, Your Honor, for your presence today in this Parliament. For our band, we wanted to start at exactly the same point that we did at his appearance in the Committee on Petitions a few days ago, that zero point that we referred to when we talked about the figure that we're dealing with today. I'd like to stop for a moment in that, because we're actually talking about the figure you're in. I should like to say this, but in view of the misunderstanding of the previous committee, I would rather clarify it. Indeed, Mrs. Otero, we are here to make a political reading of the position you occupy and how you occupy it. Politically, indeed, because it is our role and because, you have to understand it, we have legitimate discrepancies in the performance of some of your functions that we will then comment on. Having said that, I return to that zero point, to the first article of the law of the Valedoria of the people of Greece, which expressly establishes the defence in the territorial sphere of the autonomous community of fundamental rights and public freedoms recognized in the Constitution, as well as the protection of individual and collective rights emanating from the Statute of Self-Government, especially those sanctioned in their preliminary title, by faincaping in their work with total autonomy, without receiving instructions from any authority. Well, unfortunately, from En Marea, we believe that this autonomy and independence is set on edge in many of the pages of the report, in which we read very few criticisms and many attempts to justify each of the policies of the Galician Union that have caused complaints by its users, moving in many cases even the feeling that problems are more responsible for petitioners than for their own institutions. For all this, from En Marea we have failed with the report. Consolidation to policies that result in clearly unfair results such as that there are people who have difficulty accessing the health system; such as endless waiting lists; the existence of people without health coverage today in this country; or the neglect of special educational needs, things you are talking about in the report, examples all of unfair cuts, political cuts, not inevitable, not necessary, as seems to warrant in your report. We do not — we insist — political cuts as a result of specific political decisions; political cuts in almost all sections of your report that we will try to comment briefly. For example, as far as the area of social services is concerned, one of the most complaints is concerned; the area in which most complaints continue to come from problems that were already present in the last reports of the valet, and which the Government has done nothing to solve. So, for example, when it comes to exclusion or risk of social exclusion, repeated complaints show that the crisis has accentuated inequalities in Galicia and that the recovery of the economy is not reaching the majority of society. On the other hand, the complaints show that bureaucratic obstacles persist. The Valator's report scrutinises that in order to address requests for inclusion income, the competent adviser has been raising the budget for years, of course, that if the budget increases with credit changes over the year, it is because the requests are increased, because there are more inclusion needs; that is, what happens is that the Social Policy Council does not have a real forecast of needs. On the other hand, the Valator points out that "we insist on the need for regulatory development of the Social Inclusion Act." Project approved, which is being processed while closing the report. And although the regulation was introduced at the end of the year, today it is not known when it will be processed. In addition, this regulation does not solve the main risks of risk to be a real minimum income and not an alms. We don't just say that. Today, at the doors of this Parliament, there will be a concentration to defend, indeed, the need for risk not to be a smoldering, but a real right. A non-approval that assumes that the Board has continued to violate its own law since 2013. Another problem that accumulates a large number of complaints is that of delay in dependency. In fact, with the latest data we know about the Insertion, 18.8% of people with recognised rights have no benefit in Galicia. In addition, the report shows that there is a disincentive in the provision of household insurance, where it is a claimed benefit, which favours the maintenance of the dependent person with quality in the family environment. You say: "Before they highlighted the delays in applications for care-related economic benefits in the family environment, which were frequent and broad due to a bad schedule that was corrected in 2015, after this institution transmitted many assessments, recommendations and reports to this end." Now there are no delays, but many negative answers. Delays also in the assessment of disability. The valet says the board answered that "We implement and continue to perform various actions developed with the aim of achieving an effective reduction of waiting times in the valuation processes. And in view of this response, we have accepted the recommendations on the need to solve the problem of delays in the implementation of the measures announced." That is to say, the report is doing well with the measures taken by the Board, which so far did not include what was necessary, a determined increase in staff and disability assessment teams, and which therefore maintain the problem of delays in the province of Pontevedra. I mean, the administration could do and didn't, but you didn't criticize it. Secondly, we want to talk about the area of health, of course, which is of particular concern to citizenship and where, once again, the report is a constant justification for health cuts. For example, when it says things like the recent economic crisis was decisive in the adoption of legislative measures at the state level to ensure financial sustainability, forcing decisions that affected our public exit system. The excuse itself is recognizing that these decisions have caused problems in the health system. But it lacks the truth when he mentions these situations as something inevitable, because not, as I said before, were political cuts, the result of political decisions, and the valuator of the people should not evaluate as such concrete political decisions, because this is not their role, nor is it about being the valet of the Government of the People's Party, but rather about being the valuator of all citizenship. [[Applause]] But possibly the most serious thing about the report is the justification for the abolition of universal health, as noted by the complaints of users who do not today have the right to public health, that the valuer liquids as follows: "We have changed a model based on the concept of insured and beneficiary." He says, "The main ones affected, but not the only ones, are irregular immigrants, who are now lacking health coverage." By thus justifying an unacceptable political decision, saying that article 43 of the Constitution does not unconditionally guarantee the right to free public health. This seems really unacceptable to us. Right to health, universal right collected in all declarations of rights, also collected in the Constitution. I should sound something to them. It should sound something to the valet, and of course it should sound something to the government gentlemen, who insist on violating this fundamental right. Thirdly, we want to talk about immigration and work. It's really hard to understand that when unemployment and working conditions are a fundamental problem for Galician society, if you hurry up in just ten pages, throwing balloons out in most cases and obviously the Welsh administration is not acting properly. Especially worrying — we told him the other day in the committee — we find the lack of conviction about the complaint made by an association in defence of pensions. It seems that this question, which is taking thousands of Galicians and Greeks to the streets, to the valet, just like for the People's Party, is not so important. Once again, he exercises as a government parapet instead of as a citizen's advocate of the interests of citizenship. And in that sense we want to remember what he said before. Precisely, the People's Valedor Law speaks of defending especially constitutional rights. Therefore, it is not to be accepted that a social claim is made as the sufficient updating of pensions, recognized in the Constitution, which exactly enters their functions. We're talking about enforcing the Constitution, let's do it! Fourthly, we want to talk about teaching and the worrying assumption of the People's Party argumentary by this report. In this report, we can read, for a word, the argumentary raised by the People's Party, the councillor and his deputies, over and over, concerning the closures, which ceased to be closures of educational centres to be reorganizations, restructurings or any euphemism they found in the dictionary. The case is that the CPI Monte Caxado no longer exists, no longer exists. To pretend to excuse the way of government in this matter, with nocturnalness and alleviation, goes further than naivety, is to take sides. The same could be said about the closure of Emilio Navasqués in Outes. Here, once again, the valet dedicates just one paragraph to talking about the complaints of the families who saw the centers closed, and two and a half pages washing the face of the People's Party Government in this decision. In this same section we should talk about unmet promises, such as withdrawal from asbestos in childhood schools. We'd like to know the valet's opinion about them. Do you think the Government is working properly? Do you think the Government is applying the precautionary principle to protect school childhood? Even we would like, on the basis of her own words, to have made a systematic assessment of the budget cuts she recognises in education, culture, research, health, during the years of crisis. Of course, it would be a very interesting report for this House. Of course, it would be desirable to address many other issues in this report, but time is short, so I will end by answering a matter you mentioned earlier about the rights of LGTBI people. Of course, it is not acceptable to blame the people themselves of this collective for failing to act in institutions. We don't need...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u20	'Finished.' We don't have to wait for a person to report to act. There are sufficient reports that, of course, believe the discrimination suffered by the collective. What we need is policies against discrimination. And, of course, we need administrations to act and not be accomplices by action or by default. In that sense, we must remember that the competent administration and the People's Party voted in this House against removing homophobic brochures from educational centres. We need, of course, that Law 2/2014 is executed, that it remains stored in a drawer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u22	...no previous report. We also look forward to commitment and continuance on this. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. We welcome, on behalf of all Members and Members, the 5th and 6th primary school students of the CEIP Lourido, of Poio, who are accompanying us here at the rostrum at the moment. And to continue the debate, you have the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río. I would like to say, Mrs Prado del Río, before starting your shift, that at the last sitting of Spokesman we agreed with all the spokesmen in trying to adjust the interventions as planned, than all Members have an accountant in the rostrum. I pray you all, to those who have spoken and to those who are left to speak, that we try to adapt to time. It was an agreement I think it's more or less unanimous. Yes, yes, it was. So, thank you, and you can start, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Poio's students. First of all, I want to welcome, once again, the Valator and his team and thank you for one more year for their presence and the comprehensive report of the activity he has been carrying out in 2017 as a senior commissioner for the defense of the rights and freedoms of citizenship. And in this framework of defending freedom and fundamental rights, I wanted my first words to be words of recognition and homage to all of the victims of terrorism and their families, and to tell ETA that the People's Party will not swallow the self-whiteness of their criminal past history, we will not collect that legacy of blood from the more than 850 people killed in their 50 years of terrorist activity; we leave it to the left abertzale of Bildu and Arnaldo Otegi. [[Applause]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, there was no peace process or dissolution of the band, which was a victory: the victory of democracy against those who have sown death, fear, threats and extortion, and we all defeat the violent. The peaceful defeated those who cried to their loved ones killed, defeated the widows, the mothers, the parents, the daughters, the brothers; defeated the unknown heroes, the silenced by infamy, the extortioners, the marked, those who lived in fear and those who were on black lists. They won the constables who gave their lives for freedom, defeated the police and civilian guards who fought against terrorism. They won, gentlemen, those who believed in the rule of law. We all beat the violent. And as the President of the Government said, there will be no counterpart, there will be no impunity, the crimes of ETA will continue to be investigated and the convictions will continue to be fulfilled. The only counter-terrorism policy in the future will be to apply the law. ETA may disappear, but not the memory of the victims, nor the suffering and damage caused. And for them, for the victims and for all families, I ask, as a tribute to this House, a applause for all of them. [[Applause]] Mrs. Chao, I see you... [[Applause]] Mrs. Chao, I see that you are relieved of the absolute ridicule you have made in the last Committee on Petitions, because today you insisted on making the ridiculous again and criticizing an objective and impartial institution. And in view of that, because you see, Mrs. Vilán and Mr. Rivas recognized that the report recognized government abuses, recognized irregularities, recognized errors, and you came here saying that the valet lady is a commissioner of the People's Party. The truth is you've made quite the ridiculous thing, because, if you do, the political cuts, Mrs. Chao, as you said, depend on the results of political decisions, which do not allow to end the lists of endless waiting. And, look, of course, the Council has forecasts and more budgets for games that need them; for example, for the municipalities. By 2017, the Galician Union agreed to increase by 29.09%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u25	I am silent to all Members! Mr. Sánchez, please listen to who is in the use of the word. No Members have been interrupted before. Please let it be the same. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. It is the politics [...] of the Tides of Podemos, which, when they don't like what they hear, interrupt what they're talking about. [[(By order of the President, and in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this shall be withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] That's their democracy, that's their democracy! [[Applause]] The Democrats don't interrupt who's using the word... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u27	Silence! Silence! Then we talk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u28	The Democrats do not interrupt who is in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u29	Silence to all Members, please! Don't worry, he'll finish his shift! Silence! Keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u30	I hope, Mr. President, that you will make up for my time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u31	Please! Keep quiet. I'll call attention when you think it's appropriate. I tell them to keep quiet or they'll be called to order. Please! [[Protests.]] Do you want to keep quiet?Oh, my God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. What they didn't like was that I was going to say that the Galician board has increased the home aid service by 1.2 million euros, and the municipalities governed by the Weirlands didn't manage that money. Because, for example, in the Town Hall of Santiago they left out 5,700 hours a month paid by the Galician Union, that's dependent. And there were 123 people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u33	Excuse me, Mrs. Prado, excuse me for a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u34	But you will have to make up for it in time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u35	Silence! Yeah, I'll stop it. I ask for silence, if not, I will start calling on everyone to order, to those who warn me — who are already aware of what is there — and to those who speak on one side and on the other. So, please listen to who's in the use of the word. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was saying that the municipalities governed by the Tide of Podemos did not manage the hours of help in the home that made it available to the Council of Galicia; specifically in Santiago, 5,700 hours a month, a list of the endless wait, Mrs. Chao, of 123 people; or the Town Hall of the Crown at the end of 2016, 60,000 hours without consuming, with 300 people on those endless waiting lists of what you are talking about. And that's also what Valadora's report says. But those waiting lists don't matter to you because they depend on your management, gentlemen, they depend on your management. And if we talk about the Risk, ladies and gentlemen, Vigo — a government of the Socialist Party — takes more than eight months to solve the risk file, 1,600 people on the waiting list when the board officials are the same for the Vigo Town Hall as for the Pontevedra Town Hall. In the Pontevedra Town Hall, which governs the Galician Nationalist Block, there is no such waiting list. We assume all political organizations the responsibilities we have. However, Mr. Rivas, Pontevedra received the Heart of Stone award, which grants the State Association of Directors and Servants of Social Services, as it is one of the 36 Spanish municipalities of more than 20,000 officially poor people less assigned to social policy: EUR 35.75 per inhabitant. And if we talk about rating teams, I remind you that in this plenary, last April, we unanimously approved a non-law proposal with the aim of deleting the waiting list before the end of 2018. We're in May, not a month passed. Let the Council work, don't put yourself here anymore to say there's nothing going on. There's a staff reinforcement, and you know it. Don't do demagogy or say fifteen days... for 15 days we've approved that agreement, ladies and gentlemen, let the Government work. You don't come here to say that you don't do things. Fifteen days...! Please! [[Applause]] I also wanted to say that there are cities that have a lot of resources for social care and yet they also have recurrent complaints, Mrs. Vilan. You have focused on the recurrent complaints from the Board, but there are also 163 municipalities with recurrent complaints. By the way, the leader in the ranking is the Town Hall of Santiago, with 11. You're also worried that there are 290 health complaints. Look, in 2017 I'm going to tell you the attention you had in health care: 205.277 surgical interventions, 2,561,981 emergencies, 31,341,033 consultations. Well, if it's 290 complaints, gentlemen, I don't think it's so much for the number of people who are cared for in Sergas throughout the autonomous community. True, waiting lists have to be improved, that's true. But unfortunately, that happened to all of us who ruled Galicia. When they ruled you also had waiting lists, because people trust in public health and because people prefer to go to public health to attend. And I'll tell them something else, too. You haven't noticed, for example, that Valador's report was also talking about housing problems, about people living on the street. That doesn't bother you, because, of course, Valedora spoke and urged the Vigo, Ferrol and La Coruña governments to join the empty housing program. All he did was Ferrol. And Vigo and La Coruña why didn't they? At the Coruña we all know what is the policy of housing the government of the Tide of Podemos, which is to buy the apartments to friends and make the apartments of the Marea friends available. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, that's your housing policy. [[Murmurs.]] Or also decorate the bridges under which these people live. [[Applause]] That's what worries you about the dignity of people's lives and lives. What they're worried about is giving money to their friends and political organization partners, ladies and gentlemen. I understand that those who don't like to hear these things go away, because they don't want to recognize that, indeed, where they rule, they also have responsibilities in the field of social policy. We all have responsibilities in the field of social policy. Because Junta manages the money and in many cases gives it to the municipalities. I remember here another legislation and when the political groups were whining...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u38	...that the law took away powers in social policy from the municipalities. Well, we've made legislation to continue to give the councils that attention to social policy, and the municipalities have the responsibility to manage the money that the self-government gives them. And what do you do in the municipalities that rule? Well, they do as I'm telling them now. Do you join the empty housing program of the Galician Union, which gives you everything done? No, it's better to compare the floors to the friends of the Tide of Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u39	Finish, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u40	Look, Mrs. Valedora, we tell you, indeed, that you must be doing well when there are groups that are in agreement with what you are saying, that the report is good to you, that it seems to you that it is appropriate to reality, that it is objective and impartial, even though there are others who insist on making mayors who do not meet their obligations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u41	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u42	...and that's why they're upset that you put in the report what they're doing wrong. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Before moving on to the next initiative, Mrs Prado, I ask you to withdraw from your speech the word [...] addressed to a group. [[Assent by Mrs Prado del Río.]] Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next point. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to refer to Congress of Deputies, Organization for Transfer of Ownership and Skills of AP-9 to the Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u44	For the presentation of the bill, you have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u45	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. This is going to be the third time since the BNG Group we have been driving the debate on the transfer of AP-9, a debate which we believe calls for a major country agreement between all political forces. And we hope that the third will be overdue and that we will actually take firm steps to get that transfer in the direction of ending the continued AP-9 scam. We believe that achieving this transfer is something that is obliged not only to defend the dignity of Galicia but also to end that dry ten-year competition, ten-year competition and a constant invasion of our competence framework, which I think is alarming from a democratic point of view. In any case, the transfer of AP-9 is important to get us to manage from Galicia this highway and end up with unabated fees and abuses of a dealership that, you have to say, on too many occasions behave like a pirate company. My companion Luís Bará has said that they look like Rande's corsaries. And indeed, corsary not only for that corsary background that has a part of AP-9 and is taxing in tax havens but also for the treatment given to users and users, who pay for real charges of scandal. [[Applause]] We don't, unfortunately, have to go far behind. We've just seen him this weekend. And neither Audasa nor the minister had the decency to apologize to the people who were caught in those queues. And the truth is, I also wonder if Mr. Feijóo — who today, as it is normal, did not go to the Parliament of Galicia—did not have a minute on that propaganda tour yesterday with the Minister of Development so that, once they were already on the bus — because it is ironic that they come to hump by train and end up taking a bus — they took the bus and, I don't know, invited him to see how Rande's works were closed despite that opening made the carousing smoke a few months ago with the only objective that Audasa would make more box at the expense of the pockets of the Galicians and the Galicians. [[Applause]] I think a little realism would have been good to the president and the minister between so much propaganda and pre-election tuft that he had that bus trip they did yesterday. In any case, what's clear is that this weekend's jams are another reason for continuing to claim the transfer of AP-9, because this is the best way, the tool we have, to get us to have an AP-9 Welsh, public and free of abusive sins. And perhaps today, listening to this debate, if you wonder what changed for us now to bring this request back. And I think it's a reasonable question. The truth is that what has changed for us to debate this initiative again today is that we have a judgment, nothing more and nothing less than the Constitutional Court, which is telling us that the People's Party has been using lies to ban the transfer of AP-9, a sentence that dismantles the cascade of lies used by the People's Party. Not only is an anti-democratic position certified but it is also told that the veto was illegal, that it has no legal protection and that therefore an illegality has been committed. Of course, these vetoes have already been reported to be a slap in the face of all the Greeks and the Greeks, and also a personal failure of Feijóo, who is unable to get AP-9 transferred to this country. And I think this country deserves that respect, and we have to start with a president who hasn't explained to us why he says he's defending the transfer of AP-9, but at the same time he votes in favour of the debate on the transfer of AP-9. [[Applause]] When they manage to clear me how it's possible to defend one thing and the opposite, then I'll start to believe that what you say has something real. We, however, think it is important that we succeed in taking firm steps in the defense of AP-9, because it is clear that what is being said to us by the Constitutional — even if it is in relation to the processing of LOMCE — is that there is an open way, an open door, so that this shameful veto, that antidemocratic veto, can be lifted, and we can get the transfer of AP-9. And here we have two reports. The PP, when he first broke these laws, I knew he was committing an illegality. And I knew it because we now know that there are reports — confirmed, in addition, by fist and letter by the head of Congress lawyers — that literally told him that the Government does not have absolute power to veto laws for budgetary reasons. And he explained that the use of the Constitution's provision to veto initiatives that could affect budgets was exceptional and that he did not have an unlimited veto right. In that sense, I believe that the Constitutional does, in this case, clarify with great precision why an abuse was taking place that places the Government — Mrs. Ana Pastor and Mr. Mariano Rajoy — out of the law. And he literally says that the veto cannot be exercised in relation to future budgets, which have not yet been drawn up by the Government or therefore submitted to approval. And, moreover, the Government, in order to make that veto, should have specified the specific budget allocations that would be affected, because, obviously — as the Constitutional says and is very clear — it does not have an unlimited veto right and, in addition, there must be a connection, which must be explained in those reports, about which specific budget allocations of that year affect the processing of laws that may be being debated, in this case, in the Congress of Deputies. And you can't, in any case, see a law claiming that this has an impact on future budgets. Well, I have here the two embarrassing reports that sent us to the Congress Bureau, signed by Mrs. Ana Pastor, to tell us that the two laws we approved in this House were vetoed. The first one would say it's the absolute contempt, because it's two sheets. We discuss a law, we make a unanimous proposal in Parliament, and Mrs Ana Pastor and the minister are scattered in two sheets, basically two sheets that we can call lies and nonsense, because that is what is contained in this report that is being sent to us. You lied like, for example, that AP-9 connects us with Portugal. No German was able to do it, but in Madrid they insist on that it is. They could also take advantage of the bus and teach them how we don't go on AP-9 but on another highway, which is actually from the state. But they also tell us that it connects directly to ports and airports. Of course, they couldn't go on the train anymore, because, because we don't have a rail connection with any of them, because they have a lot more complicated. But we're going to the economic issue. We were told in this report that they could not support this initiative, that it could not be dealt with, because it was going to allocate 4,300 million euros for the rescue of AP-9. This is really the full length of the lie, or the bullshit, if you prefer. Because the state does a calculation that doesn't justify. Of course, that's not what the State Contracts Act says about how these types of calculations should be done. But in addition, he does so at a very inappropriate time. And what they're not able to explain to us in the People's Party is why it's good for Rajoy to be willing to put what he needs to rescue Madrid's radials — because there's no economic restraint there — and yet, in the case of AP-9, that Rajoy — which seems to him to care only for Galicia's summer in Sanxenxo — what he tells us is that he has zero euros to rescue the Greeks and the Welsh of this scam from the AP-9 shores. In the second veto, at last, I also think they tried here a little more literature telling us all the things they were doing in relation to AP-9 — in any case, bad literature. But on the economic issue, it introduces a variant that I think should be studied at the Faculty of Economics. Nothing more and nothing less than in six months the AP-9 ransom increases by 100 million euros. I don't know. I don't think any company in the stock market can get that kind of quote. And we will show once again the lack of rigour and how we are faced with a mockery, an absolute abuse and a situation that puts the People's Party not only in indignity with this country, but also failing with regard to the Greeks and Greeks who have to suffer every day the scam of the beaches. We, in any case, what we think is relevant is that we have, with this new situation, a faster way to push the transfer of AP-9 again. Our group has an appeal lodged in the Constitutional on the law which this Parliament has passed. We regret at the time that other groups and the Government did not want to defend Parliament. But it is also clear that this judgment may take place, and therefore, if we have a case law that is already sitting on the Constitutional, if we have an initiative — which is also the first initiative that this Parliament has approved, that there is no reason for it to be vetoed, an ambitious initiative that defends the transfer of AP-9 — we think it is the best way to move forward, to walk, and, of course, to defend what we all in theory and we all say we agree on, and that AP-9 has to manage it from Galicia because it would allow us to have tools to intervene in abusive acts, tools to decide their future, tools to end a situation in which we — I insist — all and we all agree that it is a situation of fraud. Because it has to be remembered that the Greeks and the Greeks have paid €2.7 billion in peas, that Audasa, over the years, has achieved over €900 million of profits, which is a nonsense a system of peas in which for 150 kilometers between The Coruña and Vigo we pay more than for traveling between The Coruña and Madrid, which is 600 kilometers and because it's not logical that we have so many motorways of beach in Galicia. You see, we're 6% of the state territory, but, however, the highways toll mean 10 percent of the state's total. And there's also a third question that seems to us to be an absolute aggravation and a demonstration of how here it seems that the Greeks and the Greeks are to pay fees for longer than anyone else: that there are only three highways in the whole Spanish state that have the maximum permitted by law, that are those seventy-five years, and two we have them in Galicia. Well, the truth is we're very lucky people. For us, the important thing is that we change this situation, and we honestly believe that transfer is a vital issue. And I'm done with a last thought. We believe it is important that this initiative should go with the support of the entire Galician Parliament, which, when this is discussed in Congress, we are going on behalf of Galicia to defend what others have already achieved decades ago. Because someone will also have to explain to us how it's possible for the Basques and the Catalans if they could transfer similar motorways and that, however, this seems like an impossible mission for Galicia, which we have to be like in a sort of wheel where we can't move forward. Nationalism and BNG are so that Galicia is moving forward and so that we can really end a situation that seems unfair to us. Because — and with this I have already concluded — it is clear that AP-9 is a great business. I don't think there's a similar business all over the Spanish state. And it's a great deal for Audasa, among other things, because, first, as contributors we pay the works. And maintenance and all enlargements we pay as users of this highway. He dares to collect profits -- by the way, he cuts out more workers and gives us a worse quality service. And we think it's time to put a stop to this scam. Where some defend a business for a minority we defend a public service for a majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Fernández Leicega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u47	Good morning to all and to all. I'm going to listen to you, Mr President, and I'm going to make an intervention I hope it's shorter than the ten minutes we have. First of all, I mean, it seems to me that this discussion is extemporaneous. We shouldn't be discussing this here, we should be discussing anything else. It could be that, in matters of time, we had to be discussing the conditions of the transfer, that in the Joint Transfer Commission there was a tour of force with the Central Government to see what financial conditions would happen that assignment, or we would have to be discussing how since the Galician Union is managed by AP-9 once transferred. But not, in any case, again, to start this process, which is long and complicated but which could already be finished today, to request the Government of Spain, through the Congress of Deputies, that AP-9 be managed from Galicia. And why are we here? That's what the BNG spokesperson used to say, and I'll agree. Because Mr Íñigo de la Serna, as Minister for Development and on behalf of the Government of Mariano Rajoy, denied that the debate could take place on the bill that this Parliament unanimously sent to the Congress of Deputies. And a table with a majority of the People's and Citizens' Party accepted this veto. At that moment we had already said that it seemed to us that this veto was unfounded, it did not have a good legal basis. We are concerned from Parliament that the financial consequences which, in any case, had resulted from the law would have entered the following budget and, therefore, that they had no burden on the current budget. And we were also concerned that those financial consequences had a first step, which was a discussion at the Joint Transfer Commission. So she was well-guarded from a legal point of view, and this made that veto inappropriate. It seemed to us that it was also inappropriate because it was going far beyond the government's resources to defend the stability of public accounts, for many reasons. It seemed to us that it was a purely dilatory maneuver that affected not only the Galician Parliament, but a very important set of laws that were promoted by parliaments or by the parliamentary opposition and that it responded to a fate — we call it at the time — of parliamentary filibusterism. Today we know that the Constitutional Court — and I agree with such a positive assessment that the BNG spokesperson for the proceedings of this court in this case — says that this action by the Government is inappropriate, that there is an excessive extension of competence. And we agree with that, it seems to us that you're right, that it gives in the nail, and that, therefore, if you open a way to rectify that position. We believe that the transfer will take place, that this unanimous demand for this Parliament will give rise to a positive solution at some point. And we hope that this will be done quickly. We have this conviction, first of all, by the recent management of AP-9 on the issue of fees, which are modulated with criteria not excessively technical but political, which, therefore, gives rise to heterogeneous solutions to similar situations in the territory and causes an unsustainable situation. In addition, it seems to us that management, like that of this last weekend with the collapse at Rande, causes serious doubts about the management capacity of the concessionaire, and about the intervention capacity of the administrations involved — this theme, essentially, the Ministry of Development — has. So it makes much more perceptible to the citizenship to the utility of this transfer. It will also be produced because there is a clear majority of politics in Galicia, but also in the whole of Spain, in favour of this taking place. And these social and political majority end up impotent. But also because it doesn't break anything. And this should reassure not only the People's Party but also the Citizens. Do not break the unit of Spain, do not break any projects, this transfer takes place. Finally, there is simply a central route to Galicia that connects 70% of Galician citizenship that is better managed from within proximity by applying a principle of subsidiarity. And better managed could bring value to what is done here and reduce the de facto dimension of Galicia. That is why we are going to support the process of this initiative, which seems reasonable to us, as we have always done. The president of the board usually, when he talks about it, uses the strategy of the ink of the squid. He accuses the opposition, sometimes the BNG, sometimes the Socialist Party. "You voted against." I've explained it before. Here was a request for 49 transfers that made a government presided over by Emilio Pérez Touriño, 49 competencies that also included the transfer of AP-9. And this was validated by this Parliament, where we were some Members at that time. Then there was a People's Party strategy that wanted to share that request and that they were voting separately, some yes and some no. And that's what we said no, to a strategy of dividing that claim of 49 competencies that have been put forward. And I was present, because I represented the Socialist Group in the Joint Transfer Commission, and I was present when the Spanish Government was asked about this joint document of forty-nine transfers. And that's when this started. But it's a strategy of silence, because here it's about concealing a fundamental responsibility. And the fundamental responsibility is that there was a time when the expiry of the concession was near and this concession extended until 2048. And that's a responsibility of the People's Party, of Mr. Alvarez Helmets and, at the moment, of the Unity of Galicia, of the People's Party, who was ruling at that time. And that's what you try to hide with all these appreciations. We're going to vote in favour. But it also indicates that in the processing of the law — which we hope will happen — we will try to improve it. We will try to return to the formulation which has been unanimously adopted by this Parliament, amending the corresponding transitional provisions, so that there may be no element in the Congress of Deputies that the Government is holding back to block its proceedings. And we like the appeal to unity, we don't like unilateral initiatives; that is, we can at the Congress of Deputies present a bill and now we're presenting this. We prefer there's a unity scenario where all political forces can match. And let's hope that this is the end result of all this processing, to which, I mean, we're going to collaborate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. Mr Cal Ogong spoke on the part of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u49	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, we must remember that there is already a parliamentary agreement around this issue, which is already a country agreement which, sadly, has been vetoed by the People's Party in Congress. On four occasions the People's Party in Madrid has prevented the parliamentary debate of an initiative that counts with the unanimous support of the Galician Parliament and, therefore, of Galicia. Feijóo — who said he was only a soldier in Galicia — should be powerful and should not allow, for his dynamic assault aspirations in Madrid, any one to which the State People's Party submits to Galicia. As regards legislation, the Government of the People's Party in the State has vetoed more than 50 opposition initiatives on the basis of an argument dismantled by the Constitutional Court. It is therefore necessary that the Bureau, on its own initiative, accept the request for reconsideration — which we have already presented in Congress since 26 April — and thus be able to unlock this unconstitutional situation. The ruling of the Constitutional Court recalls that the People's Party is a part-time constitutionalist, that it agrees with the Constitution when it comes to confronting the peoples of the Spanish State, but forgets it when it comes to defending the right to housing or to the purchasing capacity of pensioners, nor when Article 135 has been changed, with night and alleviation, of that Constitution which cannot be touched. They don't even remember the Constitution when it comes to the whitening of black money with tax amnesties or to protect the interests of friendly companies, as they did this time with Audasa, vetoing the debate. In these cases, the People's Party ceases to be constitutionalist and hides the flags, showing that false patriotism that we have been accustomed to: being patriot and defending the rights of citizenship. And the People's Party in this has very little to boast about. The People's Party is patriot of the neoliberalism of amicables, of the mammourries at the expense of the public and the masters in putting institutions to the service of private interests. We need the transfer because it's fair, because it's the most beneficial to Galicia's interests, because we're talking about the main vertebrate route in the country. When we talk about Audasa's management at AP-9, we have to talk about the worst management of all state highway dealers, who count on the complicity of the central government, which allows Audasa to be providing the worst service with her personnel cuts to increase her already indecent profit margin; something in which, if she competes with the Unity of Galicia — still ruling the People's Party — at least they could not throw your balloons out and would have greater difficulties in avoiding user pressure and opposition, which would be very beneficial to the demands and control over this misgiving concession. This weekend we live again the spree that doesn't bother at all the Galician Union, which remains submissive. And the newspapers already say, "I'm stuck in the vicinity of the Rande Bridge." [[Mr. Cal Ogong shows a document.]] Again restraints on the Rande Bridge, without any discount on the beaches, without lifting the barriers. People who've been stuck in Rande for Audasa's management up to an hour and who haven't even had the decency to lift the barriers and made them pay the expensive fees. As I said at the last intervention in this plenary session, you look very much like increasing the price of the fees for an increase in the capacity of the bridge, which is not the motorway — I explained the other day the difference between the extension of the Rande Bridge and the expansion of a motorway, although Mr. Fernández Prado says he can go ahead on additional routes—and you intend and you look very well that these fees go up, but until now, all these months, what we have suffered so far has been reduced capacity and retentions. And yet, you think it's good that the beaches go up. This weekend we see again the spook of Audasa's service and we don't know if this time you're going to be able to open some file or if you're finally going to have a sanction, although we hope it's not like the encouragement to Abertis company for having eighteen hours more than 3,000 people detained in AP-6, a penalty of 1,200 euros. This is the popular party's involvement with the companies that manage the state highways. By making a calculation, if Abertis, who earns more than 800 million euros a year, gets him a fine for eighteen hours with three thousand Euros, we understand that at AP-9, at least, should hit a penalty of 10 Euros, which is little, but at least you sanction something. What a shame: 1,200 euros to a company that earns 800 million euros a year for eighteen hours of retention on AP-6! When we talk about Audasa, we talk about the self-street dealership with more claims from the state, folding the second and triple the third, which has the worst worker ratio per mile: three times less than the state average. We're not talking about mismanagement, we're talking about ridicule, and we're talking about fraud to the Welsh people, who count on the consent of Development and the submission of the Galician Union. If the first step is to achieve the transfer of competition to the motorway that allows to exercise control over the service of the concessionaire, there is no need to be deceived. The bottom line is to solve the anomaly of exploitation, with indecent benefits, by an American investment fund of our country's main land transport infrastructure, which compels us to go further. And here we have to talk about what the price of his ransom would be, and here we have to talk about that only since the submission and the logic of the neoliberalism of friends can you understand that today the Galician Union has not yet prepared a report on the assessment of the AP-9 ransom. The People's Party's argument to veto the debate of law in Congress on regulatory insufficiency to deal with the ransom, giving at first a figure resulting from multiplying revenue in the years of concession in the fees, is an insult to intolerable intelligence. But the worst of that is that the Central Government People's Party gives figures to the random. First it says it costs 4,300 million, with this ridiculous method, and now it says it can reach more than 8,000 million euros, 7 billion more than the shareholders themselves say when they value their assets for a possible sale. What a shame, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! It's a coat of hair that the Central Government, in response to our group, value the AP-9 rescue in 8,000 million and today is talking about privatizing Madrid's radials after the rescue in just 1 billion, where there's only 40 kilometers of difference from one highway to the other. Look, we're going to talk about the serious valuations that we're counting on, the lack of the Galician board report and the encouragement that self-disappears because of its lack of seriousness. We are going to talk about valuations and we are counting on them to be known by the Members of the People's Party and at least not to go up to this forum to do the ridiculous thing by giving them a good foundation assessment. The first assessment would be available and the most consistent with which we count, both because of the formality of it and because of who makes it, is the one that Sacyr does, a company that the People's Party knows well, which appears in the papers of Basel. Sacyr is a company that knows the sector well, is shareholder of Itinere Infrastructures, S.A., the owner group of Audasa. It is therefore a company-owned partner, who in its 2016 audited annual accounts declares its intention to sell its stake in Itinere and makes an estimate of what is the value of its stock package. Well, Sacyr is worth EUR 240 million to 15.5% of Itinere's share capital, a value that, extrapolated to 100% of its share capital, is worth an Itinere's assessment of EUR 1,548 million. This valuation consists of being made by an shareholder who wants to earn money from the operation, who also knows the sector, which is included in its balance sheet which is part of the 2016 annual accounts and which is validated by the Ernst & Young, S.L audit. I will provide you with another assessment: the one carried out by Globalvia, an infrastructure management company that was born from FCC and Bankia and that since 2006 is owned by three investment funds — from Canada, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands — that exploits highways to pay in Spain and other countries. This multinational has been negotiating the purchase of Itinere minority packages for a long time. And in 2017 Globalvia presented a 100% itineral purchase offer for a total price of EUR 1 billion, which was not materialized by the majority shareholder's refusal, the investment fund Corsair, owner of 45%. Both Sacyr and Globalvia's evaluation is for the Itinerary Infrastructures set, in which Audasa is included but also AG-55, AG-57, AP-53, AP-66, AP-1 and AP-15. Therefore, the Audasa market price is set around the estimated value using criteria of surplus or of up-to-date profit, i.e. over 750 million euros. From there to 8,000 million that says it costs the Ministry of Development there are a few million. What a shame, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! And we must have money to deal with this amount or a similar amount, for the reports we have or for the serious ratings we have, when it is expected that 400 million bonuses will be paid to the highway here that ends, and when in the State Roads Act itself it is proposed to A-57, a high-capacity road parallel to AP-9 from Vigo to La Coruña, which would cost more than 1 billion euros. So, there seems to be more than enough money, that the rational thing is to rescue AP-9. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. I want to start by making it clear that we, as a group and as a government to which we support, will continue to claim to Galicia the transfer of AP-9 in all forums that are considered appropriate. We think it's possible, and we also see it's best for the interests of the Greeks. [[Applause]] That is why we are going to support the debate on taking into account the proposed law, but, of course — as other speakers have already said — we will try to improve it in the parliamentary process, to avoid — as Mr Leicega said — making it easy for the Government to make a possible argument of rejection. In this sense, we will support consideration but we will amend it to return to the consensus, as they said, to return to the unanimous agreements already agreed, to return to that proposal, because we also think it is better to do so together. We believe that this consensus is positive, especially because of political value — and this political value is even more transcendent as Congress is today — and we think it is important that we continue to keep together and continue to have a single voice, because the truly important thing is the common goal of achieving this AP-9 transfer. We therefore believe that it is important to return to this consensus. I want to repeat a few words that the spokesperson and propose asking for the support of this whole Parliament. Today I think you will have it, by the words of the other groups, but we will remind you in the processing of this support of all, that return to consensus and to joint work, which we understand — as previous speakers have said — that is the best way. But let's also do a little memory. The first thing we have to say is that we haven't changed our mind. I believe that on this subject the German People's Group has been consistent from the outset. And it is true that they are now looking for some excuses, some justifications, but what is true — and it appears in the minutes and the Journal of this Parliament — is that you voted not when they ruled. So, Mrs. Pontón, when you talk about defending one thing and the opposite, I think you're talking about yourself when you voted one thing in the government and now you vote another in the opposition. We will maintain this coherence and continue to support, whenever possible, this claim for the transfer of AP-9. But, moreover, I would also like to remind — because we are talking about so many things here — that, despite being a state-owned infrastructure, the Council of Galicia — the Councillor — has for some time been maintaining an active policy on this motorway, demanding absolutely every management problem that it has and demands from Madrid in that Joint Commission — and not only in the Joint Commission, but also through formal requests — that these problems are solved and that they take into account the improvements in the services that are being demanded from Galicia. But look, Mr. Cal, man, you're talking about returning Rande's peas. It seems hard to return Rande's toll, no matter how jam there is, when Rande's toll is released, we have a hard time. If that's what we ask, we have a hard time making that request. Let us be serious — the Council and the Government —: Rande's fee is released. [[Mr. Cal Ogon pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You ask for something else, but not what you don't charge anymore. In any case, I think it's important to remember that the Government is attentive and demanding and will continue with any problems in the exploitation of AP-9 and will continue on this line. The first one I would also like to say is that the People's Party has always led this petition. Some want to start in 2016. The story starts a little earlier. They don't want to remember that PNL that they voted against. Let's leave her alone, for the sake of that consensus. But in that bilateral transfer commission which was held on 2 February 2010 to the Galician Council already proposed the change of ownership of AP-9 and there it was collected in the minutes. Subsequently, and also in the years 2012 and 2014, Junta filed that claim again when it claimed in the processing of the PID-PIC and made those claims in that sense. Therefore, the Union has been formulating this demand for a long time and will continue to work on that line, because we consider it to be a demand according to the current legislation and that it is generally beneficial for management and for the Greeks. We believe that the transfer of AP-9 is possible, is legally viable, and it is convenient to ensure more effectively the quality of the service that citizens receive. We will therefore continue to demand and defend this transfer. For this reason, we also supported the first proposal for the transfer law of AP-9 adopted by the Greek Parliament in March 2016, which, as it was well remembered, was rejected in December 2016 for considering, by a report sent by the Government, that this proposal meant an increase in budgetary appropriations. That is why, on January 18, 2017, the four groups — and I stress the one of the four groups — of Parliament registered a new bill, consensually, agreed and jointly, which I believe, as some other spokesman said earlier, to reinforce this request. I asked not only for this transfer over the legal regime of this concession, but also for all functions and services so far exercised by the General Administration of the State in connection with this AP-9. In this text, agreed by all parliamentary groups and carried out with the invaluable advice of the Legal Services of the Greek Parliament, the previous bill which had motivated the negative report by the Juridical Services of the State Administration had been removed from the text. It eliminated that six-month period for effective transfer and also incorporated that transfer could not increase any of the credits or decrease in the revenue provided for in the General Budget Law of the current State. This is also important, because now you're going back to a previous text, and that's what we think it wouldn't help. Obviously, as has already been said very well here, this new bill was also rejected by Congress. So we're for the third time discussing a new bill now. But, to our disappointment, in this proposal for the law of the BNG it returns to its initial presentation, returns to 2014, returns four years ago, obvious and broken with consensus and agreement of the four subsequent parliamentary groups. And that's why we're going to amend the law to return to that consensus and to the unanimous agreement and to that joint proposal of the four groups. Because, in addition, as some other spokesman said well, we understand that the 2017 text makes it easier to approve and reduces the chances of justifying the central government's opposition. So, what's this again? Well, again, BNG, as it has no voice in Madrid, has to look for some way to talk about this subject, come back here with demagogy and noise, break the consensus, and I think it's back with a treatment that goes back to us four years ago, when I think in 2017 and in this same legislation we've reached better agreements. On the other hand, it is possible that, before this law is dealt with, the previous bill sent by this Parliament to Congress will be readmitted to the proceedings by the Bureau of Congress, since the Bureau of Congress has already announced the possible review of the laws rejected on the basis of the judgment already appointed by the Constitutional Court and the appeals submitted. This review may come before this new law, but in any case we will vote and support any initiative — so we will vote in favour — that will help to deal with this law. But I'd like to ask you not to confuse people in the last few seconds or minutes. What they're trying to do is mix transfers and fees. They're different things. I'm not going to fall into the trap, because today we're talking about transfers. We'll have time to talk about tolls whenever they want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u53	...—now finished—but we think it's important that we don't deceive the Greeks. We're not talking about ransoms here, we're not talking about price cuts, we're talking about a transfer, and we're not fooling about it with the topic of the Basques, which was recognized in the Constitution -- the Catalans are still being state -- and we're not mixing with the radials of Madrid. The first rescue highway is the AP-9, which was already rescued once it was broken...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u55	...and you have that obligation on any of them. In any case, we believe that from Galicia you can manage better, you can make a more particular management that responds to specific demands and we will therefore support this transfer. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. For the replica round, by the group that is the author of the bill, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u57	Thank you very much, President. I believe that today, in any case, the debate that is being held, with light and tachygraphs, in this Parliament on the transfer of AP-9, because for our group — and I said in my speech — is important that this is a complaint that the Parliament of Galicia has kept, because it is clear that all the lies and all the nonsense it has been using — not... a divine element —, lords and ladies of the PP, its party, the People's Party. [[Applause]] I don't know if she's already independent of Galicia's PPdEG, but, as I know, you say I'm a single party. So, I don't really understand how the single party is unable to achieve, having an absolute majority in this House, ruling in the past with most of the Congress of Deputies, that something that seems to take away the spell as it is to get the transfer of AP-9, nine years later, it's still not a reality and we have to come from the group of the BNG always pulling to get the transfer ahead. Because, of course, you make a story and elude elements that are important to AP-9's history. Because, in fact, AP-9 started in 1973, during the franchising regime, with a public concession — which he told them — that he could not be in tolls until 2018. And after that story, there was a lot of history, where the People's Party and the Socialist Party have responsibilities in the situation we have at this time in AP-9. Because I remind you that there have been enlargements of concessions, which were both from the Socialist Party and the People's Party, and — I do not know — I am surprised that you forget about such an important issue as the privatisation of AP-9 by Mr Aznar, who has misallodged you for 1,500 million euros and extended our concession until the year 2048. And so you have absolutely nothing to say, even though this is the source of the problem we have from AP-9 today, because without that absolutely fraudulent sale today we would have an AP-9 without fees. And that's something that the Galicians and the Greeks do need to know, and I think our obligation, in the face of a past of using Galicia as a currency of exchange and spoiling our country's most important highway, as public representatives, is to offer an alternative. Because whoever lies here is the People's Party. And I'm going to say something very clear. We, in the transfer, in the first law and in the second law, are asking for powers to affect the beaches, or are we not? We have the competence to decide on the peas of AP-9, and that is the key issue. You may not know if you know the law in detail. I did, because I was very upset to work on this law from the very first moment. The first debate takes place in 2015 and we continue in 2018 with us pulling this car. Because I didn't receive your support, neither me nor the BNG Parliamentary Group, to put on him a resort of unconstitutionality when he vetoed the PP in Congress. And I think it's an important fact of a double moral that leads us to see in this country how things don't move forward. For us today we have to start a third attempt, which has to be the final one, because I think, if not, what is obvious and that is going to be shown is that all this is also a screen so that we don't talk about the responsibility that the President of the Board has in this respect. The Block, always throwing away because there's unanimity in defending country issues. If it wasn't for us, this debate wasn't on the table, they'd already buried it in 2016. So we rejoice that we continue ahead, also making it clear what the responsibilities of the whole world are on this subject and being very clear that we work here for the sake of the Greeks and the Greeks and not to defend the benefits of Audasa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. We move on to the next point in the legislative texts. Debate taken into account by the G.P. in Marea, on urgent social emergency measures in the area of economic benefits to alleviate energy poverty and to improve energy efficiency of vulnerable households
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u59	For the presentation of the non-law motion, you have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u60	Good morning to all and to all. Thank you very much. Today we are dealing with something that really makes sense — I think more than anyone — to our institutional work, such as the fight against poverty. I think that no one can stand up to this situation, one of the fundamental tasks and challenges of En Marea — and I suppose that of all the groups of this House —. And then, when this debate is over, I hope to keep thinking about it. Proposals for energy poverty revolve around a central idea. Access to energy, in the same way as access to housing, health or education, is a citizen's right. Accessible electricity supply is essential for a decent life and a prerequisite for the exercise of other fundamental rights. The food, education or health of people are rights that are affected by a lack of adequate energy supply, all that is aimed at social exclusion. We can define energy poverty as the difficulty or inability to maintain housing in adequate conditions of temperature and humidity, as well as the availability of other essential energy services at a fair price. This would be in the situation where a home is located that has to spend more than 10% of its available income, i.e. the total income minus the cost of housing, to achieve a satisfactory level of heat in its housing, which, according to the World Health Organization, is marked at 21 degrees in the main room and 18 degrees in the other rooms. Energy poverty is undoubtedly associated with poverty in general. However, there are reasons to emphasize energy poverty, and the main reason is that in Galicia the rate of energy poverty has grown much faster than the rate of general poverty in recent years, as indicated by both the IGE and the INE. Given this criterion, the situation in Galicia is very serious, since we would exceed 20% of households in energy poverty. The main reason is the increase in the disproportionate and unjustified bill of electricity by 76% during the years of the crisis, in which the average income of families has declined. This increase places us at the highest level of electricity prices in Europe and has many causes, as we have already stated in the previous plenary session, and which are essentially summarized in the Government of the State with the companies of the electric oligopolie. We woke up today with a truly outrageous news, Endesa doesn't increase its income but increases its results this year by 47% due to market liberalisation, as is well demonstrated in many articles that go out in the press today. A liberalisation that nourishes the endless greed of oligopolies and politicians installed in their boards of administration and, on the other hand, assumes a very important part of citizenship in energy poverty. Speaking of course, passing cold and calamity. As in so many other cases, the contradiction of reality with which it is written in the Spanish Constitution is very painful. The constitutionalism of some parties is second to that. And I recommend to all your lords to read articles 45 and 51 of the Constitution to see that energy poverty could not exist in Spain if we complied with what the Constitution says. And what are the most serious consequences of energy poverty? According to the World Health Organization, energy poverty is causing about 7,000 deaths a year in Spain, about 400 deaths in Galicia, mainly due to respiratory complications, but also to far more tragic ones that come out on the front pages of newspapers. Of the 35,000 high hospitals in Galicia each year due to respiratory complications, Galicia is the third most income-generating community in Spain. The World Health Organization and other agencies estimate that more than 10,000 are caused by energy poverty, because they cannot have a home in conditions of adequate temperature and humidity. This implies saturation in emergencies and about 70,000 days of hospitalization, at a health cost of about 40 million euros. If we add down to this, the personal and family implications, the economic and social costs would lead us to truly immense figures. So besides justice, fighting energy poverty is the determined way of saving public and private money, which will not come to us afterwards with no money for this. Many international bodies also mark the strong impact of energy poverty on school performance, condemning children and children living in these homes to educational exclusion. The law that the People's Party passed in this Parliament last year of energy efficiency, and theoretically to combat energy poverty, could only reach 1.45% of households, about 15,000, when the reality is that when they had the electric ticket they did not pass from 2,500 per year, not even those 15,000 who would be entitled to it, and is only headed to homes at risk of exclusion, that is, in extreme poverty, people entering their home less than 400 euros a month. To say that this is the only people who are in energy poverty is truly scandalous. The Galego Institute of Statistics and the INE measure that in Galicia there are more than 230,000 homes in energy poverty. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we must urgently correct this, we cannot leave 215,000 homes in Galicia in energy poverty. Therefore, In Marea presents the law that we consider in a way — we think it is objective, we hope that the contributions of the other groups during the processing of the law will make it even better — more comprehensive, comprehensive, up-to-date and just than they have developed throughout the state. In addition, we will show that it is fully financed by the budgets of the Galician Union, so we look forward to the support of all the groups of the Galician Parliament in order to pave the way for the eradication of this totally inexhaustible scourge. And now I'm going to quickly summarize the main elements of the law. The object of the law is to create Galicia's social energy tariff, which will be based on proportional aids based on home vulnerability. We make a definition of the vulnerable consumer, setting new criteria for defining these homes. The main novelty that we incorporate is that it is currently being applied throughout Europe and that it does not apply, for example, the social welfare of the State, and that the income available in a home is not the total income, but the total income less the cost of living. Because it's not the same thing to earn 1,000 euros and to have to pay 400 euros of rent, to earn 1,000 euros and to have to pay only community expenses and the IBI, for example, vary a lot of the income available. And don't do it this way implies what's already happening: leaving out 80% of the homes that are really in energy poverty, as is happening with the state's electric social bond, which, in addition, have passed the brake, as I will explain later. The concrete measures involve discounts between 25 and 50% on the bill of light depending on the vulnerability of households. We set limits on consumption that are really necessary to keep a house in the conditions we speak of. The current state social bond does not cover the third part of the annual energy needed to maintain a warm home and with essential minimum services. We have established a procedure to prevent the suspension of supply in a concrete, clear and easy-to-implementation manner so that what is going on with the doubts and the excuses of the merchants will not continue to cut the light on people who cannot afford it. We have also established — as it is not done in the decree of the Government of the State — a clear and concrete sanctioning regime of immediate application. This is what we think will strongly discourage companies from failing to comply with the law. We also establish a clear, simple and accessible procedure for the application of Galicia's social energy tariff, and this is the most important point of the law, because what cannot be done is laws that then it is impossible for citizens to assume and benefit from those rights. In the state social bond—and also as it happened on the Galician board electric ticket, which as I say they only asked about 15% of the people of the homes who were entitled to it—the Minister of Industry has already said in Parliament that he planned it in 200 million euros, although it would actually be 500, because 60% of the people or they wouldn't know whether or not he would be able to process it. For the Minister has passed the brakes, the reality is that it was not 40%, until the end date of the granting of the social bonus — which was April 14 of this year — only 6% of the homes entitled to apply for the social bonus were able to process it. So in the face of this excess of brakes, in the face of this excess of theoretically involuntary obstacles so that people can't exercise that right, they have now extended the deadline until October 14, but without modifying the processing, which will imply that most homes are left out. That's why we established that all the processing of these aids can be developed in the social services both municipal and Galician, because what makes no sense was what the Government of Galician Union had done to deal with industry delegations, as if it had been to apply for a permit to engage in a factory or an industry. But are those officials really prepared and trained to develop their work with people at risk of exclusion? It has to be in social services and with easy and affordable procedures. That's why we also thought that all that person who has already proven his vulnerability, and that's why he got Risk or any other social or municipal income, automatically accesses the aid marked by this law. We've also established, for the first time in the state, aid to facilitate the payment of gas, although the current situation is that gas does not reach the vast majority of vulnerable homes and the Galician Union should also set the means for that to be solved. We set up an energy efficiency plan for vulnerable homes, which would be realized in a plan that the Galician Union would have to develop, since there is no better way to save energy than not to consume it. And in addition, energy efficiency greatly improves the comfort of housing without the need to consume so much energy. The financing of the legal measures would have to be assumed by the budgets of the Galician Union, which would set out an annual departure to meet the needs of the law. And in this 2018, given that winter will start in October and you have to list the execution of the law this year, the contingency funds of the budgets could cover the proportional part of 2018. Then energy efficiency plans could also come from self-financing, but also from the funds that the European Union is planning for these types of initiatives. During the processing of the Act, In Marea will present a detailed economic memory to demonstrate the capacity of the Galician Union to fund the objectives of this law, which we estimate at about 50 million euros. As I say, only health savings would fully cover the costs of this law, and that without, of course, counting all the suffering, suffering and the situation that has just been told about the problems of both exclusion and the health problems that involve the immediate failure to solve the problem of energy poverty. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen of the People's Party and of all groups recognise the imperative need to deal decisively with this inexorable scourge and allow for the processing of this law. Please, don't face poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u61	Thank you very much. Before we speak to the next spokesperson, we greet, on behalf of all, the fifth and sixth primary students of the CEP of Portonovo, who have just entered the Chamber. And you have the floor, on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u62	Good morning. In the face of this debate from the Nationalist Group, we wanted to insist on two issues that seem key to us and that are united. The first is that we have to become aware and assume that the exit of the recession is not, it is not, the end of the economic difficulties for the most Greek social groups. Far from being that way, we're seeing the policies of the People's Party sink into that ever-increasing social inequality, and poverty called energy is one of their most harsh and cruel samples, and it's a political responsibility they're at all fulfilling since the German Government. The second — as we have insisted in the previous plenary session on the thread of the debate on the Greek electricity tariff and on the thread, too, recently other initiatives — is that we understand energy as a public service, which is something that neither the state nor the Government of the Union is doing, and therefore we have to guarantee its supply. In this sense, if the political decisions were ambitious and they walked on this line, we would have solutions and not patches. To point out that assistance and palliative measures are needed, but that it is also necessary to bet on a model change that guarantees that public use of energy. It is true that the recognition and conceptualization of energy poverty is relatively recent in our political framework. No one is escaped that the consequences of the socio-economic crisis have seen and made this need for attention more evident, also thanks, on many occasions, to popular initiatives. This same Parliament was able to debate a popular impulse initiative that the People's Party then threw directly into the trash. But look, that doesn't mean that once this most difficult part of the socio-economic crisis has been completed and the recession has arrived if it's solved the problem by itself, quite the opposite, because we're seeing that instead of changing, instead of having a clear social recovery, if it's consolidating that poverty and also that energy poverty that doesn't disappear. We don't have the statistics, the official statistics, and not the BNG itself, which tell us that 52.73% of the Greek homes come with difficulty, or a lot of difficulty, at the end of the month. These data from the quarterly joint survey usually have a slight oscillation, but they always leave us a picture by which half of our country has serious economic difficulties. It's not random, besides, that always in the first quarter increases, that's basically so, and also, among other reasons, by the impact it has on electricity bill and its high prices in the toughest months, in the winter months, because energy poverty is caused by social impoverishment, but also in a very important part by the high price of electricity and the lack of control of an electric lobby supported by the People's Party. This energy poverty has dire consequences, the voicer of En Marea mentioned some, I want to insist that we talk about public health, that we talk not only about lives in bad conditions, but also about many deaths. The ACA — Association of Environmental Sciences — has recently published this month a study on poverty, vulnerability and energy inequality at the state level, where they make an estimate, and the estimate for Galicia, for our country, is from 1993 to 2013 of between 200 and 600 deaths associated with that energy poverty. Meanwhile, it is clear that neither in the state nor in the Union there is a firm will to respond to this reality. According to data from the 2016 Galego Institute of Statistics themselves, you can't afford to keep your home at an adequate temperature of almost 200,000 Greek homes in our country. That means that the measures that are articulating Galician Union are absolutely insufficient. We must remember where they came from. In 2017, they gave the Galician board's own briefing notes that helped almost 7,000 homes. Without a doubt, it's a fact that's totally insufficient if we compare those nearly 200,000 to those 7,000, because it's absolutely insufficient and that for us it's not only political neglect, that it's also, but that's ultimately the social model and the social neglect model that supports the right. A model that, in addition to being insufficient, does not apply correctly, because we have discussed many times in this House the needs for improving the management of the electric ticket, which is added to what we know in 2018 as well. In this sense, the proposal of In Marea, which we thank for having the opportunity to deepen once again on this issue, basically proposes complementary aid to that social bond of the State, and in that sense seems to us little ambitious, but we understand that it is a good starting point that we could improve in the parliamentary process, and that, in any case, it also assumed an advance in respect of that absolutely insufficient social bond and electric ticket, because it hides a model the absolutely wrong and insufficient social bond, as it pointed out, and does not have rational criteria, either, of income distribution. Mr. Amancio Ortega, or any multi-millionaire football player, could believe the status of a large family and therefore get that social bonus, which gives an idea of the nonsense of what we're talking about. Not only do we not like the social bond, we saw today in the morning an early audience of the people's valet where he collected the problems that evidence both the processing of this bond and the electric ticket. So it's something that only the People's Party doesn't want to see and which they don't want to solve. I'd like to make a point, although they call it the tariff proposal, it's actually a help, and the law of the electricity sector is not being amended. For us a question that would still be pending in the text itself refers to as assistance measures, and this seems to us an important step, in any case, because it could improve what is already there and it would have the opportunity of the People's Party to rectify that knee which it has applied in other popular initiative proposals or in other opposition proposals, although I do not share the optimism that Mr. Casal had in his first intervention, but we trust it to be so. I just wanted to introduce some further reflection to the thread of this debate. We believe that social policies must, indeed, be assumed by the public administration. These also help to eliminate energy poverty, but we continue to maintain a fundamental question in which the future should enter, and this initiative could be a first step to close a debate and enter the next one, which is that we have to question the current electrical system, because only with help and with this social panorama will not serve us to change model and paradigm. The bill is expensive because it allows it and because it is sponsored by the system itself, and this is something that we have to change, so in the future we have to enter into the amendment of the law of the electricity sector. I would also like to point out a fundamental question that is important to us, and that we cannot give the debate on energy poverty as if we were in Jaén or in Canary Islands, which is the model to which the social bond brings us with several questions, and the first one of them — which Mr Casal referred to — are the limits of consumption. We, as far as consumption limits are concerned, think we should reinforce that part of the project, because it's nonsense to assume the framework that has the social bond, and logically it's not the same as trying to warm up the house at Calvos de Randín, which always has the top of the temperature drop across the state, that we should try to do it in places with a milder climate, like the Canary Islands, but the irrationality of the frame we've mounted, of the frame that the People's Party orchestrated, because it's so disarmed that it also leads us to assume this framework to give the debate of energy poverty obvious that in our country we also have an important energy richness, and that no one understands that it doesn't turn to our favor. It is important for us that measures that are palliative, such as those proposed, should be used in the face of this social situation, but structural measures are needed, too, and there is a potential that, of course, we cannot and must, by responsibility, make it obvious. We must overcome that framework of charity and social emergency and go to policies that bet because that energy, indeed, is a public good, but for all people, not only for those who are in a more emergency situation, because in the end they are two faces of the same currency, and the qualitative improvement of the situation will not come only from public aid, especially because we have a social situation — I insist — where half of the Galician homes have difficulty reaching the end of the month, half of the Welsh homes — although not all of them are in an absolutely extreme situation — make numbers and pirouettes to pay the bill of electricity, and that is absolutely unacceptable in all contexts, but even more so when we speak of a country that has an important producer capital, an important energy wealth, that towards the future we must bet because it has some kind of return. That's why we want to end this reflection by offering our support to this proposal by En Marea to improve the current aid framework, but by inviting the rest of the political forces to remember by responsibility that we should not leave anyone behind, and if we don't take that energy wealth into account, we'll end up doing it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Mr Losada Álvarez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u64	Thank you, Mr President, and ladies and gentlemen. I want to start by following the voicer's path at the point of the People's Valedor report of the People's Party, and I just want to read two sentences. One from Ángel Acebes, June 5, 2006: "The ETA project is the Zapatero project." And another from Mariano Rajoy to President José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero, May 11, 2005: "You betrayed the dead." I'm not going to say anything else, it's hard work not to go this way until the president calls my attention to go to the subject, but I'm sorry to say, and I'm absolutely convinced, that we're not all the same. [[Applause]] We are talking about poverty, energy poverty in this case, in any case about the living conditions of citizens and citizens who have more difficulty in coping with their vital projects. And I want to start here with an analytical framework, which I think is nothing frivolous, I think you pick up perfectly what we're talking about, and pick up perfectly what are the lines of political action, which, without any doubt, follows the People's Party. In 2012, at the height of the heavy, painful moment, recession on the unemployed, member of the People's Party at the Congress of Deputies: "Let's get the fuck together!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh In 2018, an absolutely asymmetric recovery from this deep recession that this country has suffered ten years, nothing more and nothing less than the Secretary of State for Communications of the Government of Spain to pensioners: "For the Jews!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I think the best synthesis of politics is an infinitive, you're fucking. [[Applause]] The data are there, and the data tell us, absolutely machacona, that the outcome of this country's crisis is asymmetric, unfair and unequal. At a time when the Spanish GDP is rising to 3.1% and the German GDP is also rising to 3.1%, in the last year, the percentage of families coming in with much difficulty at the end of the month is growing, and the percentage of families arriving with difficulty is stagnated. Someone should explain what economic policies are being made to correct or to provoke, by action or by default, this situation. Because, until now, this humble Member, of course, has never heard convincing explanations on this issue in this Parliament. Economic growth and development are two different variables. They're two variables that have a fundamental difference, one of them includes the redistribution of that growth, and that's development, it's obvious, but sometimes I think it's necessary to refresh the memory, and another is actually that 3.1% data, which is a macro-economically very relevant data in the field of the European Union, in the field of developed countries. Four days ago, Fedea — Founding Applied Economics — little suspected of Marxist-Leninist, and the Accenture consultant published a study — which I of course recommend to the Members and Members of the People's Party who take a look at it — which is called "Appreciable population vulnerable to employment in Spain in 2018." I think, and I insist, that it is particularly relevant, because it shows this percentage that in the case of Galicia it is about 12.5% of the population, i.e. 350,000 people who find themselves in an absolutely detestable labyrinth of labour poverty, unemployment, precarious jobs, temporary jobs. I mean, a situation that doesn't allow you to face the normal expenses of a citizen's life, or a family, with minimal comfort. And unfortunately, despite this 3,1 % growth, and despite the fact that every day the President — or every Wednesday of alternate weeks — counts on us in this Parliament, the occupation in Galicia grows very little. In the last year, according to EPA — and I repeat that I like to say the source to avoid animated fantasies yesterday and today, which was that series of cartoons that we walk in the fifties we remember — there were 6,200 more busy, 6,200 more. This means 1.3 % of Spain's set. I mean, every time someone tells us here, and often tells us that the German labour market is better, it evolves better, it's stronger, it's stronger, it's stronger, not entering wages, just going into occupation — if we go into wages the situation would get worse, but the fact is that the data are less homogeneous — the volume of the busy people — I repeat — is 1.2% of Spain's whole. And that's what explains that household spending goes down, and that's what explains that redistributive policies, absolutely negative policies on the right, that the percentage of that pie, that if it's happening, that 3.1%, every time it's destined for wages is less. And this, in fact, brings about poverty and inequality—the proponent of the initiative, the bill, and the spokeswoman of the Nationalist Block Galego said. It's obvious, you don't have to do partial, integral derivatives, or complex calculations. That is, if you grow the cake and shrink the wages, surely the remuneration of the capital is what grows. And in view of this, we have a very clear political option, and — I repeat again — it is a political option, it is not technical. We are politicians, we are in Parliament, governments are politicians too. Then we will have the presence of the councillor of Fairy, who said one day in this Parliament that he did not come here to make politics — he must come to a ninth of the Holy Rosary — but, in any case, the usual thing is that the councillors do politics. The policy option is to convert this country into a low cost country with 38% of GDP of public presence. And, of course, that — which means 8 points less than the European Union average, given that there is England or Ireland, and countries in eastern Europe which have very low levels; I give up comparing myself with Denmark, France or the Netherlands — because undoubtedly that 38%, it is not able to redistribute the loss of cake in what is the functioning of the market. And this is the source of all this problem. And in Galicia we are, unfortunately, going worse than Mr Feijóo said. The descent of the homes with all their components in unemployment was, in the last year — it is true that it is coming down — of 6.8%; in the set of Spain, double. There are still 34,300 homes — last data from EPA — with no income. No income means no income. Because the other day I still had another discussion on what "no income" means on a commission. No income doesn't mean there's a pensioner who's in that house and who's getting a pension. No, no income is no income. In Spanish it's very easy, and I think it's the same in Greek. So I think we all understand it: no income. I mean, whether depending on whether it's beneficence or the help of family and friends. There are 100,000 people in this autonomous community, an autonomous community that, I insist, grows 3.1% of GDP. And in this context, indeed, in this context of low incomes and unstable incomes, of economic difficulties, because energy is more than undoubtedly part of these difficulties. The latest energy poverty report has just come out in Spain and we have a data of approximately 400,000 people affected. It is true that with different intensity according to the indicators that are taken, but the truth is that the problem is there. The Government of Spain has indeed developed that social bond, a social bond that has been quantitatively a gross failure, because in theory there is an objective population of 9 million people but up to now there are 170,000, 170.000!, that is, barely 2%. So you'll have to take a look at what's going on with the social bond and, of course, you have to supplement these incomes from autonomous communities. Here we are going to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, but it is true that we are in favour of homogenizing and, as far as possible, making a single package of social policy, or calling it minimum or vital income; finally, as we wish. But, of course, for several reasons.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u66	I'm done. One is about a resource economy and another is because people with the most economic difficulties are the ones who have the greatest difficulties in accessing complex administrative procedures. And the more we simplify that access route, the easier it will be for those people to access.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u67	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u68	So this is the basis for our intervention. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor, Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u70	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I'll start with Mrs. Presas. I'm glad they really start to become aware of energy poverty. At the appearances of the ILP, he didn't ask the audience a single question. No, it's just that I bothered to check the videos, all of them, and everyone asked them the same question, which I read, "What's the political component in the electric bill?", your textual words, Your Honor. You never wanted to talk about anything important, you would want to talk about your slogan: the Greek fare. You say it, Your Honor. No, no, no, he didn't speak at all. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada, the truth is he's taken part in the intervention by talking about several issues; and poverty, two minutes. I'm surprised you're admitting everything the other groups propose, everyone. They're not worth anything. What they agreed to in Congress with us, who agreed to reformulation of the social bond, is not good for them now, Your Honor. You're not worth it, because you have to come here by the Tide Group and tell them how to treat energy poverty. No, they're not worth what they agreed with the People's Group in Congress, Mr. Losada. Look, Mr. Casal, the truth is, I congratulate you. I congratulate him because you're a perfect storyteller, but false stories. Look, I understand that in his previous profession it was worth it, that history was as fantastic as possible. But we're not in the movies, Your Honor, we're not. Look, Mr. Casal, sensitivity to the most needy families, all, all sensitivity; but demagoxy, zero, please, Mr. Casal. The claim you made yesterday before the media and what you have now made here that in Galicia 400 people die of energy poverty problems in the year is very serious. It's not supported by any report with Spanish or German data, Mr. Casal. It's very serious that he's trying to create a social alarmism that doesn't exist in such a dramatic situation. You know it's based on reports from the Environmental Science Association -- that didn't say it, but I have it here. And in the same report it says — textual words — that "data must be taken cautiously", the data published in the report, Mr Casal. If you look at that report, it also says that in Ceuta and Melilla is where more people die. Home!, I think they're the warmest provinces in Spain. So, explain this to me, explain this data to me, because the truth is it's not understood. But anyway, you also rule and I suppose there will be 400 of these people from Santiago and Coruña. So tell me what they do in those cities where they rule. Look, you say one thing and then, when they rule, they do another. I will structure my intervention — to get into the matter — in three fundamental arguments: the first is to present the scenario of why it came here; the second is the measures adopted by the Central Government; and the third is the measures adopted by the Self-Government. I recommend you, Mr. Casal, update the data and tell the truth. Galicia is below 20% that you say of energy poverty — the INE and IGE data. And do you know who's in charge? Communities such as Castile-A Mancha, Andalusia or Extremadura, in which the People's Party does not rule precisely. It's obvious that neither this group nor the Government of the Union are happy with this data, and that's why we continue to work on initiatives to keep them better. But I'll get into it later. You, in your proposal, say that one of the reasons for energy poverty is the high price of light. I tell you that another reason is missing — Mr Losada mentioned it here and that our group believes that it is essential — that is unemployment. So I'll go back to the past and put it in advance. You — who also knows why you worked in the sector — know that in 2004 the price of electricity in Spain was one of the lowest in the European Union. Explain to me why it has increased so much to this day. I don't appreciate that explanation of lobbying, that this is a plot of a business lobby. Because that lobby already existed in 2004. Plus, it was a bigger lobby because there were many fewer companies. Today there are more marketers offering different energy services and many more options. That's why, Mr. Casal, it's easy to explain: a good part of our electricity bill pays for past political decisions, bad political decisions like the tariff deficit, which in 2004 was just over 1,500 million, and in 2011 there were over 30,000. And today we keep paying them. Look, the calculation of the price of electricity knows that it's similar in Spain than in the rest of Europe. And where's the difference? You never say that. The difference is in that debt bag, Mr. Casal, which we have to pay for the excessive primacy of energy technologies that were immature at that time. These have been bad political decisions. Look, another reason that influences the increase in energy poverty is undoubtedly the lack of employment, a lack of employment that reached maximum levels in our country's history in 2007. The number of unemployed was low in 2007 of 1.5 million people, and in 2011 it reached 5 million; a global crisis and a central government — Mr. Zapatero — that did not recognize the crisis despite the destruction of 1,500 daily jobs. That, Mr. Casal, is the sad scene that found the Central Government in 2011 and which, of course, increased the number of homes in situations of energy poverty. Once I've been adjourned, I'll remind you of the actions you've taken. What did the Central Government do? The first step in 2016 was to negotiate with the Socialist Group in Congress the reformulation of the social bond, which was achieved with the support of all groups less than their own and Catalan extremists. A reformulation that includes the classification of three categories of vulnerable consumers, to which invoices will be subsidised based on income. And the most important thing is the creation of the category of "vulnerable consumer at risk of social exclusion", which cannot be suspended from electricity supply. The new social bond also includes the obligation of electric companies to notify defaults before cutting the light so that social services can act. You weren't worth anything from this bond, Mr. Casal. They didn't value their income limits, they seemed to be insufficient, and what was demanded from companies. And now you're using us in your proposal. Look, again one shows more of his incoherence. The second measure of the Central Government seeks to contain the energy indentation by planning a sustainable energy transition that does not allow the imbalance that you all — to the left of this country — have allowed in the electricity sector. In fact, it's been two years since the cost of energy in our country gets paid and doesn't continue to generate debt. And the third measure put in place by the central government was to manage to generate jobs, to get jobs to grow by 3%, 700 jobs daily in Spain for the third consecutive year, when Mr Zapatero's years were lost 1,500. Yes, Mr. Casal, these are the actual measures and data obtained. Finally, I would like to point out to you why we are going to vote against your proposal by explaining the measures taken by the Autonomic Government. Of course, the self-government has been a pioneer in activating measures for the most vulnerable consumers. First, it created in 2014 the social electric ticket, which benefited more than 7,500 families, of which 2,500 received this support in 2017. He granted supply cut-off aid to more than 5,000 homes between 2016 and 2017, which in total were more than 12,000 families who were helped to pay their energy bills. And as you know that the problem of energy poverty is not only a question of income but also of cost and energy efficiency, the Government of Greece has been operating aid from 2009 to more than 27,000 families with an budget of 34 million euros, through the Housing Plan, for window renewal or coverage, or for families who opt to use renewable technologies. Secondly, what will be done for this same year the counselor told you there are a couple of full-times to yourself at the root of a question. It's working on adapting protection measures to the most vulnerable domestic consumers, adapting to the social bond and adapting to the provisions of the Greek law 7/2017, adopted in this Chamber in December 2017 only with the support of the People's Group, which has meant a step forward in the attention of the most needy as those families at risk of social exclusion have ensured the supply service and the free use of minimum consumption. A new aid order will be launched coordinated with the Social Policy Council and all the agents and administrations involved. The Government, once again, responds to the needs of citizenship. And thirdly, Mr. Casal, the Autonomic Government activates all its tools to further increase employment, which places our community in April as in the lowest unemployment rate: a decrease of almost 11% and exceeding the rate of state decline by more than four points. Mr. Casal, this is the reality, this is the data, and I should stop confusing people. Energy poverty is a serious problem that doesn't deserve to be treated with demagogy and with failures to the truth so serious that they bring us shame. The German Government has been there, pioneering since 2014, moving forward with aids like the electric ticket and understanding that the problem of energy poverty is a state problem. And that's why he showed himself in favor of a state solution as the social bond was. Mr. Casal, there is already a social bonus and a Welsh law of measures against energy poverty, so we are not going to support this initiative. You keep showing your sectarianism. They're not worth anything from our government, but then, where they rule, they don't do anything they promised.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u71	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u72	For you, social income was a priority and it turns out that they spend twice as much on advertising as in the Town Hall of the Crown; or Santiago's, in which three cases related to energy poverty have been processed in the course of the year, Your Honor. I'm done. We're going to be a little more serious and, of course, more rigorous with such delicate data as the ones I've exposed here today, who knows he can't prove. And you won't find anyone related to the health that gives you the truth about your data. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Replica. Author group of the bill, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u74	Thank you. I appreciate the support of opposition groups to the proposal. I agree with Mrs Noa Presas of the BNG that this is indeed a first step, of course. It's an emergency step. Mrs. Novoa says no, there's no emergency. Then we'll talk about what he said. The definitive solution, of course, would be to re-consider electricity as an essential asset and not as a commodity — that's clear — and to change the entire legislation of the electricity sector to prevent tariffs from being fired and have to be the administrations that have to cover these unacceptable extra costs so that homes can maintain comfortable conditions. The truth is that Mr. Losada has trampled me a little bit on what was going to be the end of my intervention. But he talked more about general economics, which I thank him for, because it's always a privilege to learn from his speeches. Mrs. Novoa, let's see, tell you that the data of deaths caused by energy poverty due to the respiratory conditions that involve must be taken cautiously. I agree, I agree. What do you mean "cautious"? Cautious means it may be a little bit more or less, but cautious is not denying the data, which is what you do. You say that doesn't exist. No, it's not that cautious. In Galicia people die from energy poverty. I repeat, and that's not demagogy, that's a reality and you can check it out at any hospital in the Welsh health network. I deny it is truly unacceptable, unacceptable. [[Applause]] This is mentioned by the World Health Organization. They mention all kinds of international health agencies. But besides, it's obvious, a home with a high degree of humidity and a low temperature greatly favors respiratory conditions. Why in Galicia are there 21% more deaths in winter than in other times of the year? Well, obviously, for something it will be. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Novoa, the clear job you have to do, of course. When people get less money, they have less availability. But do you know what most energy-poor homes in Galicia are? They are single-person homes of elderly people. Do you know who those people are? They are pensioners, women; many of them voters of the People's Party. That's embarrassing, that you turn your back on your own voters. That's a shame. They see the pensioners women in the towns and rurals going cold, getting warmed up with an oven, which in many, this isn't demagogy, Mrs. Novoa, this is outrage. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Indeed, we have taken the steps of income that appear in the state social bond, in fact, to facilitate proceedings, but with a substantial change — and you are sure you have read it and did not want to quote it — which is the change in what is available income. One thing is the whole income of a home and another thing is the income available. We base it on the available income, which is the income of home less the cost of housing. Because, according to his escalation, a lady of these ages we're talking about, which covers 550 euros a month's pension, will not have the right to help. On the other hand, with our planning if you will. And besides, a person who covers, at best, 800 euros, if, by discounting the rent price, he's down to 500, he's also entitled, which is how the rent should be considered. The truth is that yesterday in the country—and Mr. Losada spoke of it—there was an article that examined whether the People's Party was going to disappear. He was essentially justified by all the judgments, the hundreds of judgments, which are going out this year for the hundreds of cases of corruption, for the billions of stolen... I know they don't want to talk about it. [[Strong murmurers.]] You're interested in talking about an apartment that was bought for 50,000 euros, a 60-square-meter apartment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u75	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u76	Go ballast!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u77	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u78	That's a ball. The Coruña government bought a 60-square-meter apartment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u79	Go finish, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u80	...in the Coruña for 50,000 euros. Tremendous ballatage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u81	Silence! Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u82	What they don't want is to pay the billions that Spanish society has lost with its corruption.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u83	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u84	But do you know why, really, I don't agree with what the article says, that the People's Party is going to disappear by corruption and by the handcuffs that between you and yourselves who get the daily...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u85	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u86	...even if they don't leave later on the cover of the papers?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u87	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u88	Do you know why the People's Party is going to disappear? To say "fuck" to people with energy poverty as well. [[Applause]] Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u89	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Having concluded the debate on the legislative texts, we shall proceed to the vote on them. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the bill, of the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, an organ for the transfer of ownership and competences from AP-9 to the Galician Union. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to refer to the Congress of Deputies, an organ of transfer of the title and competences of AP-9 to the Galician Union. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67. The voting is positive. Therefore, this bill is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u90	We are now voting on the draft law of the En Marea Parliamentary Group on urgent social emergency measures in the field of economic benefits to alleviate energy poverty and to improve the energy efficiency of vulnerable homes. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, that's what you're talking about. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, it's okay, I say it from here, you... sorry, it's up to me. Who runs the debate is me, not you. [[Murmurs.]] Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. in Marea, on urgent social emergency measures in the area of economic benefits to alleviate energy poverty and to improve energy efficiency in vulnerable homes. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 35. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this bill is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u91	Finished voting. Open the doors, please. We move on to the third point of the agenda, which is that of appearances. Comparison of Mr. Advocate of Fairy, on his own request, to report on the follow-up to the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u92	That's what the Fairy Counsellor has to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I compare today to report on the result of the evaluation of the first three years of the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan, intervention in which I will also advance my expectations for the current exercise. Ladies and gentlemen, three years ago, we have taken a risky decision since the Greek Government, to develop a strategic plan up to 2020 as a tool to boost the consolidation of a very weak economic recovery. Galicia was a pioneer in this five-year planning tool and an example for other territories. At that time, no autonomous community similar to Galicia had betted by pushing an integral strategic planning, with concrete and quantifiable measures and targets, or, otherwise, a roadmap that had told us where we were going and how we were going. And why a risky decision? Because then we were suffering with great intensity the effects of the greatest economic crisis that we had to face and manage in the history of our autonomy. Clearly, it was a crisis in which, in addition, no decisions were made in time. And it was also years in which the Government of Galicia had to assume an unprecedented fall of its budgetary resources. But with all these risks, in the Greek Government we concluded that it was time to put off improvisations, which to a large extent caused and broadened the negative effects of the economic crisis, and we waged for planning. We're thinking of turning a risk into an opportunity. The economic landscape had begun to change since 2014, when the Greek economy was able to curb the destruction of employment and even began to grow timidly. It is true that it was still a very weak growth and there were many doubts that this recovery was going to have continuity. But Galicia was beginning to grow, and it was in better conditions than most autonomous communities, with political and institutional stability that today is nowhere in Spain, only in Galicia, and with less debt and less deficit than the autonomous average in order to better cope with our future and the generations that will come after us. That's why we understood that making a strategic plan at that time was a risk, because no one was flouting that a third recession could come. But it was also a great opportunity, because, by setting our priorities and our goals, we would have more chances of achieving strong and equal growth, a growth that would reach as soon as possible all the Greek homes and which would also cover all areas: employment, innovation, education, inclusion, cohesion or equality, among other objectives. And that's what we did: planning. Because whoever plans doesn't improvise. A plan that we want it to be integral, covering all the action axes of the Galician Union, participatory with the work of who best knows the situation of each sector and, most importantly, ambitious planning, with no easy targets to achieve when they were fixed. And I think it was a good job. But we don't stay there. First we want to plan, and once we've done this, we have to evaluate compliance with the default targets. They will obviously understand that the easiest thing for us was to approve a strategic plan by 2020 and wait for that year to check its effects. Galicia has opted for a more difficult path: to make a broad and rigorous assessment halfway through the road with two objectives: to check if our strategy is taking effect and to have a margin to make the timely decisions that are needed. Ladies and gentlemen, three years later it is time to report to Parliament and to civil society that helped to develop this planning tool. And the main conclusion is that we are right about this decision. And data confirms that it's being a useful plan for Galicia and, above all, for the Greeks and the Greeks. Our strategic planning has a goal: to build amongst all the Galicia we want. And two priorities stand out above all: economic growth — facing an objective of a GDP increase of 2.5%, average growth between 2015 and 2017 is 3.6% — and employment growth — facing an objective of creating between 80,000 and 100,000 new jobs by 2020, over the first three years, has generated 55,000 jobs. Galicia that we designed in 2015 for 2020 is a more equal Galicia with more opportunities, with more and better employment, with more productivity, with more territorial and social cohesion and with strengthened well-being. And in the middle of the road, we see that we are going the right way to achieve these goals. Before evaluating the results of the plan, I will briefly remember the steps taken to make it a reality. The first was to draw up a diagnosis of Galicia's economic situation, to find out where we left from. With this analysis, we have identified priority needs and made an approach aligned with the Europe 2020 Strategy, drawing up a plan that does not cease to be an evolved model of triple propellers — i.e. administration, university and company — to which we add the participation of civil society. We made a strategic plan that was the result of everyone's participation and involvement. We involve half a thousand entities, to cover the whole socio-economic fabric (pemes, self-employed, trade unions, associations, sectoral groups and third sector entities), with a specific and participatory website, with three sectoral forums and eleven thematic tables in which we sit discussing 220 of the major experts in these matters and an advisory committee that is formed with the largest experts in the institutional, economic and academic field, which has endorsed this strategy. With the Strategic Plan 2015-2020 we promote the greatest process of participation in Galicia's history. With all these approaches and only with the administration's own means, we've developed this 2015-2020 Strategic Plan. And the result of all this analysis and recompiling of ideas was placed in a structure with five axes, the first being employability and intelligent growth; the second, well-being and social cohesion; the third, sustainable growth: territory, sea, agriculture, livestock and mountains; fourth, digital society, language, culture and weight strengthening of Galicia in its environment; and fifth, a modern, efficient and quality administration. We've also made three horizontal priorities. Firstly, governance and partnership; secondly, the promotion of equality and non-discrimination between men and women; and thirdly, sustainable development. And we also set four horizontal targets: the drive of the culture of innovation; the promotion of entrepreneurship, industrialization and internationalization; demographic dynamization; and finally territorial cohesion. So with analysis and participation, we've designed five axes, three horizontal priorities and four transversal targets, and with this structure we're looking for an integral bet to get a more productive, inclusive and sustainable economic model. In his design, we identified 95 strategic targets and 427 indicators for evaluation and chose ten main challenges. Firstly, to grow in a sustainable and healthy way; secondly, to re-create quality jobs; thirdly, to export more than ever; fourthly, to minimize school dropout; fifthly, to extend higher education to the Greeks; sixthly, to promote inclusion and equality; seventhly, to fight climate change; eighthly, to promote clean energy and energy saving; ninthly, to address the demographic challenge; and tenthly, to converge with Spain and the European Union. Ten challenges for a more prosperous, more egalitarian, more productive and more sustainable Galicia. Before explaining the main challenges, I explained how all this strategic plan design work has determined our budget policy. Two weeks ago, I had the opportunity, together with the president of the board, to analyze it before the managers to, on the one hand, thank them for the work done over the past three years and for animals to continue to improve day by day the execution and follow-up of the Strategic Plan. Ladies and gentlemen, the process of participation with the greatest experts and with the collectives in each area allowed us to know and decide that we should prioritize. With this data, we turn these priorities into strategic targets and then we assume those strategic targets as budgetary targets. That is why, in each of the last three budgets I presented and defended before this House, I stressed that they have the seal of compliance with the Strategic Plan. And that's because, in drawing up each budget, we include — or not — splits and condition their accounts according to the priorities and objectives set out in the so-called Strategic Plan. Budgets over the last three years would not be the same if we didn't have the strategic plan. The conclusion is only that the design of the 2015 accounts influences — and in a relevant way — the results achieved. The Greek budgets are the numerical result of a country strategy designed to boost economic recovery. Let us now look at the results of the challenges that we consider more priority for Galicia. The first challenge was economic growth. In 2015 it seemed very risky to forecast average growth over 2.5 % of GDP up to 2020. We'll close 2014 with positive rates, but only a few tenths. And many of you — others who were not yet in Parliament — told us that our economic forecasts would not be met. Well, in the middle of the period, fortunately — not for the Government but for the whole of the Greeks — the forecasts are not only being met, but the results are very positive and even overcome this more optimistic scenario. The Strategic Plan has driven that over the first three years — 2015, 2016 and 2017 — the average GDP growth in Galicia has reached 3.6% of the average growth, when we came for a few years from a deep recession and only in 2014 with still very weak growth. Planning therefore favours Galicia's three years of growing above 3.5 % of GDP, very positive data, which encourage us to follow this path, but aware that we now have another objective: to be able to maintain in what remains of the period up to 2020 GDP advances also around or above 2.5%. If we get it, we'll chain up six years of strong growth. As I shall explain later, the prospects for this year 2018 are also good. The challenge number two is the job. Ladies and gentlemen, the creation of between 80,000 and 100,000 jobs for the period 2015-2020 three years ago seemed also risky, seeing the background of previous years. Again we had to hear from the opposition benches that our expectations would not be met, and again the results confirmed in the first three years are very hopeful, because we have counted 55,000 new busy. And this is very positive, not for the Government, but for the Greeks, 55,000 new jobs in three years to transfer recovery to families. In this period, the employed grew by 5.5%, with an average annual of 1.8%. We want to consolidate this trend by 17,500 new jobs this year and promote better jobs and higher wages. In fact, with recent data from the first quarter of this year, we've added nearly 17,000 more busy than a year ago. It's the best first quarter since 2009. Thus, comparing the first quarter of the Strategic Plan in 2015 with the same period in 2018, at this time we have almost 63,000 more occupied Greeks and Greeks. With this generation of jobs, Galicia had already closed in 2017 the highest occupation since 2009. In addition, in the first three years of the Strategic Plan the population employment rate between 20 and 64 years went up to 64.7%. So we move forward five points in three years. And with this evolution, we are prepared to comply that by 2020 the expected rate is approaching 70%. More occupation, better employment rate and consequently lower unemployment rate. Thanks to the impetus of the Strategic Plan, in three years we reduced the unemployment rate by six points, because the unemployment rate fell from 21.7 % to 15.7 % on an average annual basis. Ladies and gentlemen, behind these six checkpoints there are a lot of Galicians and many of the Greeks who three years ago had no job and who, fortunately, today do have it. The evolution of the 2015-2017 period is in line to make possible the ambitious goal of having a unemployment rate around 10% at the end of 2020, a 10% rate when there is not much more than 20%. The unemployment rate has been lowered at a rate of 2 points each year. And that's why the challenge now is double: to continue to improve employment and unemployment rates over the next few years and to continue to improve the quality of the job that is generated and the wages that workers receive. Challenge number three is exports and R+D+i. The launch of the Strategic Plan coincides with the best export cycle in Galician history. We're getting year by year historical peaks of the value of our exports. And this is not the result of chance, but as a result of the design of an internationalization strategy. One of the major challenges of the plan is to increase the weight of sales abroad in the German GDP. Well, exports reached the record of 35.6 % of GDP in 2017 and the first data we know about 2018 are also very positive, again exceeding records last year, which was the best in history. With this development, we maintain that by 2020 the objective is that it can bring us closer to an export weight close to 40% of the German GDP. As we want to make Galicia an increasingly competitive territory, we reinforce our commitment to R & D+i every year to consolidate a model of more productive and sustainable growth. Data from the last available year 2016 show that the expenditure rose by 1.6 % and that the number of researchers increased by 7.7%. But we are aware that we have to improve, especially in the private sphere, something that not only happens in Galicia but also in the rest of Spain, as the Minister of Economy has acknowledged very recently. From the Autonomic Administration, which is from which we can focus more directly, we've approved a new R & D+i plan. This new plan will contribute, among other measures, to strengthening the burden of spending on the area of German GDP, which remains around 1% and needs to be increased. The data confirm that in Galicia the public sector and universities have a tractor effect on R & D, above Spain and above even the European Union. This year we have also just increased by more than 20% of the budget in innovation and the challenge is just adding up to the private sector. Therefore, we are responsible, we know that we need to improve the weight of R & D over GDP. And to achieve this, we act on two lines: with strategy and planning, and with more and more available resources, with a purpose, which is nothing other than to sustainably increase expenditure on R & D+i. Challenge number 4 was the reduction in school dropout. In a strategic plan there are priorities, and one of the biggest, of course, is the education system, because education is one of Galicia's cornerstones of the present and especially of the future. Training is the key to achieving a more prosperous and egalitarian Galicia. And in this sense, one of the most important indicators like the dropout rate in Galicia is already below 15%; in particular, in three years it decreased by 3.6 points and it was 14.9%. At this point, the dropout rate reaches the lowest levels in the historical series. With this evolution, Galicia is in clear position to reduce it by 2020 to 13.5%. The fifth challenge is that of the population with higher studies. So we continue with training, and the level of studies substantially increases the potential for quality employment. So it's good to measure and evaluate this aspect. And in this indicator Galicia also has a good position. The percentage of Welsh and Germans who completed the higher education is already at 45.6% and we are on the right path to increase by three years to 47%. Galicia is now out of line with the objectives set out in the Europe 2020 Strategy, but we want to keep moving forward. Challenge number six, inclusion. Another priority of the Strategic Plan is the consolidation of inclusive economic recovery, which promotes the fight against inequality, offering opportunities to those who need it most. And with the last known data, the year 2016, the social exclusion rate dropped in Galicia to 20.3%. Galicia improves by 7.6 points in relation to Spain and by 3.2 points in relation to the European Union itself. The number of persons at risk of social exclusion has fallen to more than 76,000. It's not enough, and year by year we have to bring solutions to the Greeks who need it the most. With the strategic plan we favour inclusive economic recovery and we will fight and continue to fight against inequality. Challenge number 7, climate change. The fight against climate change is also essential for Galicia in the future. In fact, in the Administration we have a specific department, as you well know, for this matter. Since 2005, CO2 emissions have fallen by almost 20%, but we must continue to take continuous and planned measures to reach the 35 percent reduction target. It's true that this indicator is very conditioned by climatology, which explains the 2016 data, so the most important thing is the tendency to decrease greenhouse gases. The fight against climate change is essential, and we must among all contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. The challenge number 8 was that of energy, which is also very linked to the fight against climate change and the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency. Consumption in renewable energy exceeds 20% set in the Europe 2020 Strategy, and in the last three years it has already placed us around 40%. In this case, and as I had previously commented on the reduction of emissions, there are also punctual oscillations due to climateology. By their band, energy efficiency has improved by 9% compared to 2005. Galicia clearly has its strategy to boost renewable energy and improve energy efficiency. Challenge number 9, demography. The demographic challenge is one of the country's challenges and obviously transcends the vigil of this strategic plan, but we continue to take steps to encourage Galicia to be a good place to reconcile, to have children, to attract people, to settle down and even to return. From the German Government we take this challenge very seriously. We have already exceeded by 5 points the school coverage rate, set by the European Union at 33%, and we want to reach 40% by 2020. We have 47 children's homes in rural areas. We have over 29,500 Greek families who received the Welcome Card to help with their son's first-year life expenses. We have also made it clear that demography is a country target, which requires consensus, and an integral package of measures maintained over time. And this is the commitment, like the German Government, that we have to demography. Challenge number 10, convergence. The strong growth of the Greek economy is leading to our convergence. In fact, Galicia reached the highest level of convergence with Spain in 2017, 90%, with a progress of almost 2 points in three years, and with the European Union; in this case, in only two years we reached 2.7 points of convergence. Galicia is at its highest historic level with Spain and we have advanced positions with the European Union as well. In addition — something we have often forgotten — Galicia was the Spanish community that grew more in terms of per capita GDP, 10 points more than the Union as a whole. I have mentioned this once in this Parliament, because it is the most important thing to condemn when we take a little more look at the prospect of triumph than as society we are achieving, and of what we should all be very proud of. As I have just reported, the first three years of the Strategic Plan have a high level of compliance with the marked targets, but we must not stop, but we must continue to consolidate, on the one hand, economic recovery and, on the other hand, the model of healthy, inclusive and sustainable growth that we are building among all. The Greek Government will continue to analyze all economic and social indicators weekly, and month by month, because continuous and constant follow-up is the only way to corroborate that we're going along the right path. And the data we're going to know in these early months of 2018 is also positive. The Greek economy continues to grow above 3%. Galicia is one of the most unemployed autonomous communities; it's almost 26,000 new social security affiliates in the last year. Industrial production is growing again. The German exports, after their record, as previously stated, historical in 2017, grow at a rate above 20%. In addition, the main agencies that advance forecasts are also estimating greater growth for Galicia. That's why the President of the Union himself has already made good progress. We are going to look up the forecast of growth in the Greek economy this year, a forecast that is 2.5% at the moment, and that we are going to rise in several tenths, on line -- I insist -- with what the main economic agencies are already doing in their latest reports on our Autonomous Community. We will have to confirm in the next few weeks the scope of this review at a glance, but we trust that, with the same, the average growth between 2015 and 2018 will continue above 3.4 per cent. In this way, the growth path will continue far above 2.5 % on average in the Strategic Plan. And with the forecast of job creation this year, in the period 2015-2018 we will already be around 72,000 jobs generated, so in the upper part of what we estimated by 2020, we will get closer to 100,000 new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, although objectively the results of the first three years of the Strategic Plan are positive, even if I would say very positive, we must not be self-compliant, because the greatest enemy in planning is self-compliant. That's why we have to keep doing day by day, month by year, the analyses with the utmost rigour, consolidating the policies that are producing fruit and strengthening those that need a boost. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the evaluation of the first three years of the Strategic Plan 2015-2020 allows us to conclude that this period has been characterized by a high degree of compliance with the objectives initially marked — even some very above the forecast — and an increasing economic recovery — with average GDP growth of 3.6% — and a job creation that has reached 55,000 new jobs. In addition, expectations for this 2018 are also to continue with strong economic growth, above that originally anticipated, and with strong job creation. So as far as the rest of our lives in this Strategic Plan are concerned, we are committed to strengthening the resources to meet the challenges to consolidate this model of more productive, inclusive and more sustainable growth by 2020, because we believe in planning as a useful tool for bringing together the present and the future, so that we can build among all of this Galicia we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u94	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u95	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. As I have limited time and I can't be ten minutes talking about how this plan was handled, I'll only point out one of the issues, one of the eves in which the Galego Nationalist Block already insisted, which is that this plan was born fruit that, since you failed your own Plan 2010-2014, because the strategy was to oscillate, with this new delivery, between little concrete and little ambitious objectives; so, in this way, you were skilled and could meet some of the goals without effort. That's why for us this evaluation already hides a perverse logic, a logic of the simulation, which we're used to, which allows them to swim between self-comprehensiveness and elude a serious and deep debate about structural political priorities. On the one hand, you take advantage of the general tendency of the departure from the recession to self-attribute benefits and issues from the macroeconomic framework, as if it were only for your actions and did not influence other factors — as I will report later — and, on the other hand, they pay attention to the time frame for data as appropriate, to use those that benefit them most. In fact, we have to say that you did magic, directly. Because you talked all the time of three years of implementation of the plan, three years of implementation of the plan, including the 2015 GDP data, and I have to remind you, Mr. Martínez, that this plan was approved in the Greek Parliament in May 2016. 2017, 2018. I, or I don't know how many times you tell us, or only two years have passed. So that's the level of rigour in the analysis that you — always attributed to the opposition lack of rigor — have. Even create fiction until the duration of the implanted plan. On the other hand, we have also observed, once again, an exercise of a lack of courage to evaluate rigorously what subjected the crisis and to their policies of cuts and austerity. They don't do it because they don't like the result, but in items like poverty or employment, logically we can't get along with slightly improving one of the indicators — not all of them — of 2015 or making it as if you hadn't ruled in the previous four years. And as in all the plans of the People's Party, we also see another great common denominator, which is the lack of relationship between theory and reality. For example, you sold as a nuclear issue — and I quote literally — of this plan "economic growth based on innovation and human capital to reduce unemployment". I'll focus on these three questions. You speak of human capital and, frankly, Mr Martínez, seeing the data seems that you could already incorporate these data into the export section, because what you have done, your policy in recent years, has been to export population to other parts and force people in this country to take the suitcase and emigrate. According to the target pattern, today there are 87,750 people less in our country than when you entered the government. And if we take the 2015 stage right now, we're not even worth the result because the population has fallen by 24,008 people, even in a context of economic growth. And we are going wrong, Mr Martínez, because, despite his rhetoric, the negative behaviour of the people of Greece during the Feijóo Government — however much they try to conceal it — we are paired with less dynamic and peripheral countries in Europe such as Hungary or Poland, and while other countries in the backbone of the European Union are increasing population. I don't know if this is your example of convergence, but of course BNG's not. And even that's what allows them to come up with some data such as GDP, where it won't deny that in per capita GDP we have less population, and that that's why the result seems to be better. But in the meantime, we see with sadness how Galicia loses population and how especially they keep leaving a Galicia that is not a country for young people and girls, because it is precisely between the youth population where the most population we export out, thus consolidating ourselves as well as one of the state's oldest communities. I am surprised that you speak of the fall of resources, of the socio-economic crisis — which has undoubtedly been important — but right now, at a time of economic growth, you avoid talking about issues precisely related to the demographics that are currently under discussion. It tells us that demography must be a matter of country, but rather than coming here to self-agree with this plan, it was good for us all to sit down and see what we are going to do before demography, in fact, is not going to be, as it seems, an important burden on the distribution of European resources. Not to mention already — because it would be repetitive — all that you have pending as regards an insufficient funding system. As I say, we have a Galician that loses human capital, and that's because of its policies. On the question of employment we also see that the dairy accounts are, once again, because, with EPA in hand, since the government Feijóo, the unemployment rate has increased and the unemployed have increased by 25,500. In this period, both activity and activity rate have experienced declines, and in the last year — despite the improvement of most indicators — it does not occur, for example, with the rate of activity, which has been reduced if we compare the first quarter of 2017 with the current one; therefore, the current one will not be as wonderful as you have painted us here. But we also have to say that the worst behavior is that of the busy people. It's true that this parameter has been increased since 2015, but it's also true that you are not at all — as you told us — anything bold, because they haven't even marked as a goal to recover the more than 120,000 places that have been lost since the start of the crisis. We've got 120,000 busy and busy less than when you got to the government, and it looks like you're in line with the indicators, in a busy frame of time, slightly improved. And we have this bleak picture thanks to the work policies designed, which they do is to prolong that precariousness. You can conceal. You can take some indicators, for example the number of employment contracts, and boast that in the 2017 closed year of work they have increased by almost 50%. But what happens if we get in the middle of the data and see what happened? For it has gained relative weight, in the type of contract, the temporary recruitment and not the stable recruitment, and that is indisputable, the picture of precariousness and temporality that leaves us the economic crisis before you act, neither in the state nor in the board of Galicia. A change of course would be necessary to reverse this precariousness. That's why this country is already walking towards a general strike. Because we are not worth the result that the exit of the recession is done in exchange for the consolidation of the loss of rights and inequalities that, of course, we are not prepared to admit quietly complicitly. [[Applause]] Because the result of your policies is that we have an increasingly unequal Galicia than at the beginning of Mr. Feijóo's mandate, and we are not worth a model in which poverty has increased three times since you rule. [[Applause]] To me, honestly, it seems to me like a joke of taste that you come here talking about inclusive economic recovery when, for example, in 2016, a fourth of our country was at risk of poverty. It may improve some indicative slightly, but of course it's not at all what our ceiling should be. This plan offers no alternatives to this situation of social emergency, and its policies, either; and I'm going to give you a very graphic example. At the previous point in this plenary we discussed energy poverty. You can search the nearly 200 pages of evaluation of this plan that will not find the expression "energy poverty". That is the demonstration of all the absences of this German Government, which lacks will to solve this social crisis and also lack of will to introduce important measures in relation to our productive sectors. In a matter like the energy issue I'm not going to come in because we've been discussing it with Mr. Counsellor a short time ago, but I can't help but make mention of a matter. Look, Mr. Martínez, a lie, as much as it counts a thousand times, it doesn't become a truth. I think I should give you a little bit of a chance to come to this House — and to any of the People's Party — to promise us that it will double the investment in R+D+i; it's perverting the figures, which is what you do. A real insult to intelligence! You said we were going to double this expense. We see that GDP spending in Galicia in 2015 is 0.88. I'm not going to insist that it's far from that 2% that they promised in the innovation plans. But, look, in 2016 we went from 0.88 to 0.86, and that's what you're saying is to increase, which is to double, because they live on a parallel planet where they want to transform the reality of the dictionary, but of course we didn't buy it from them. And one last reflection. You are also talking about budgets and that this plan was actually linked to budgets.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u97	And as I run out of my time, I'll refer to myself in the reply to how the absences and low executions, starting with innovation, show that it's an absolute fallacy. I am finished, Mr Martínez, indicating that you have drawn up a plan as you have not even met; and that, of course, it is far from the needs, both social and other matters, that this country has. Because you live more to meet the deficit, to comply with Mr. Mariano Rajoy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u99	...and with Mr. Montoro, that of injecting real alternatives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u101	...for our population. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Before passing on to the representative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet the students of the Pino Special Education Centre in Ourense. And also to the fourth and fifth primary students of the Plurilingual College Professor Albino Núñez. Welcome to Parliament on behalf of all. And now yes, you have the word Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning to our guests. Good morning, Counselor. The Socialists welcome today to come here to talk about the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020; but a strategic plan that was presented by you in this House on May 10, 2016. So it's a plan that, despite covering the year 2015, at best was approved and presented in this House 17 months later. In the presentation you made of this strategic plan, he said it was developed within the greatest process of participation in the history of autonomy; a strategic plan of the Greeks and the Greeks. But the Socialists and the Socialists are a little curious to talk about participation and follow-up when the 2016 balance sheet is hung on a website but it has not been presented in this Parliament, as the document itself states. For 2017 they present an advance that is actually a PowerPoint advertising and propaganda. We don't know what social participation was in that follow-up document. We don't know who had access to the balance sheet document. And for the governance of the plan, a follow-up committee will be set up with six bodies which are only part of the autonomous public sector. We don't know when this follow-up committee met, either. [[Applause]] Counsellor, we are once again in a Government of PowerPoint, in a Government without transparency, a Government of advertising and propaganda; a plan of the Greeks and the Greeks but without the Greeks and the Greeks. By the way, Counsellor, the review of the Strategic Plan is planned this year 2018, when will it take place? You'll answer us, I suppose. Will it be done again without the participation of society, without the participation of the Greeks and the Greeks? Will it be sent to this Parliament so that the various parliamentary groups can make our approaches, our proposals, in order to improve it or adjust it to reality? Or is it going to be a sample of more than one advertising and propaganda government? Counsellor, we, men and women socialists, fully agree with the general objective expressed in the document of the Strategic Plan of Galicia, which says: "Impulse Galicia's economic growth by starting from a model based on innovation and human capital, which collaborates to achieve a modern, socially and territorially cohesioned Galicia; that allows for a reduction in employment, increasing productivity and income for the Greeks and the Greeks, collaborating to return to the path of population growth." We fully agree with that general objective. In that same sense, you in 2016 said in this Parliament that this strategic plan was to return to the citizenry all the effort you made during the crisis and work everywhere to get the most disadvantaged, the ones who suffered the crisis the most, are now the ones who have the greatest opportunities. And he also said that day—just like he just did in his intervention now—that it was a roadmap to consolidate economic recovery and job creation. For that, they proposed in the document themselves a series of measurable targets for the achievement of this final goal, in which we too can agree, though — as I will tell you — with some nuances. The first one. Higher annual GDP around 2.5%. Target reached by Galicia but also by the rest of the communities. Something that's already done from now on. I increase by more than 100,000 jobs by 2020, which in the follow-up document itself have already marked with an 80,000-100,000 slot. They must have had doubts about reaching those 100,000 jobs. A 10% reduction in the rate of unemployment. Improve the rate of occupation of citizenship between 20 and 64 years in 10 points, up to 70%. We don't know why not 75%, which is what really marks the European 2020 Strategy, is five points less. You will answer me, Counselor. Duplicate R & D expenditure to 1.7 % of GDP. We also don't understand why they don't mark the target of the European 2020 Strategy, which marks it by 3%, not by 1.7%. Reduce school dropout by 3.5 points, up to 13.5%. And also the European 2020 Strategy is under 10%. We don't know why this is the goal either: to reach 47% of Greeks in between 30 and 40 with higher studies, to reduce the population at risk of poverty, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to increase the use of renewable energies, to implement a package of measures for the demographic revitalization of our country and to convert to eight points with the European Union in per capita GDP. I mean, Counsellor, even though you say that when this strategic plan was drawn up, we do not understand why, according to what marks the European 2020 Strategy, which is a smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, the Government of the Council of Galicia sets out far less ambitious targets than those set out in this strategy. We don't understand, I hope you explain it to me. Why is there always a lack of ambition on the part of Galicia? Why don't you match these goals? Unless the Government of Galicia considers that our country does not count on sufficient instruments to achieve these objectives, or doubt the management of the Union of Galicia itself. We'd like to be able to respond to these uncertainties, because I suppose you won't come here today to do an act of independence from the People's Party Government, something that we've also been accustomed to, but I suppose it won't be that. You talked about making this strategic plan was a risky decision, risk and opportunity. But I remind you of something I continually remind Members of the People's Party of this House: one thing is what forms itself in the role and something else, as I will show you, is the reality of its facts, of its government. Counsellor, after two or three years, as you wish, 2015 or mid-2016, since the adoption of this plan, I will give you data on the situation of some of the targets set in the plan; targets that, as I say, are less ambitious, and in the European 2020 strategy, Spain also undertakes to achieve these committed targets. You were talking about the job. It says: increase in more than 100,000 jobs by 2020. In fact, this goal, in the review, you, as I said before, have already fixed it in a 80,000-100,000 slot; these are no longer those initials. So even you yourselves have doubts about fulfilling that goal. And five points less than the European strategy suggests. You know, Counselor, that employment has to be the most important objective, the fundamental for all the Greeks and for all the Greeks and therefore to Galicia as a country. You know that employment is what gives dignity to people, which allows them to do their vital project. And you know perfectly well, Counselor, just like those behind you talking continually, that employment data in Galicia is not good, Counselor; and you know it. EPA data just came out in the first quarter of 2018. I could compare -- I'm not going to trap you -- those busy in the third trimester of 2016, which is when you started implementing this strategic plan, with the first trimester of 2018. If I did that, I'd say there's 7,800 jobs less, less, since it's implanted. But still not doing that, and collecting comparable data, therefore, fourth quarter of 2016, fourth quarter of 2017, has risen to 6,200 people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u104	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u105	I mean, Galicia is 0.59%, while in the state as a whole it is 2.65%. I mean, Galicia 4.5 less than the whole state, with similar GDP growth rates in Galicia and the rest of the state, about 3.1 per cent. Therefore, Galicia, growing at this rate, does not create the same level of employment as the state's whole. And, of course, it's a much lower level of employment than that marked by your own plan, where you plan to create more than 16,000 jobs/year, and yet, I tell you, you only get part three. And if we take the balance sheet, Counsellor, 2016-2017...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u106	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u107	...Galice was the autonomous community that less employment has created from all autonomous communities. And the latest data published by the EPA, first quarter of 2018, tell us that the occupied population that was created is 22% less employment in Galicia than in the whole of Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u108	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u109	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u110	He's got another shift yet, then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u111	... 8.13 % in Spain and 6.34 % in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u112	Thank you, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u113	These are the realities. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u114	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u115	Good morning, Counselor. I will begin by saying that I agree with you on one point, and that the economic cycle phase has changed in Galicia since 2004 and GDP is growing again, as in Soria, as in Andalusia, as in the rest of the state, as in Poland, as in all the countries of the European Union, which I hope do not depend on the economic policy of the Union of Galicia for those GDP growth figures. That GDP growth is normal, that's what you did in twenty-eight of the previous thirty years, ranging from 1997 to 2007. After the great recession caused by austerity policies and cuts, we return to the normality of growth, indeed. That's the only thing I share with your publicity and propaganda intervention. What we differ radically is in the evaluation of their performance, because the balance of the nine years they've been occupying power can be summed up in a sentence: they're responsible for the decade lost by the economy and the Greek society. And here I want to stop, Counselor, in something that has surprised me. You went up here and said that the Greek economy is growing 3.6%. I'm going to say it again to get it recorded. The councillor said that the Greek economy is growing by average in 2015, 2016 and 2017, 3.6%. Counselor, either he wants to fool us or he doesn't understand the concept. I'll explain. That 3.6% is the nominal growth of the economy, i.e. the real growth of the economy, which is what all official bodies use to assess the economic growth plus the variation of prices measured through the GDP deflator. Counselor, I don't know what worries me anymore, whether you want to lie to this House, or if you can't understand the concept. The Greek economy has grown by 2.7% in the last three years. [[Murmurs.]] Losing a decade is much more than being back in 2018 with the same level of wealth that we already had in 2008, because the effects of that lost decade are enormous in terms of dimension and it will take decades to recover from these effects, if one day comes. How much wealth? How much work? How much well-being have we lost since the year 2008? Figures, when I've made the bill, they're scared. If the Greek economy had grown between 2008 and 2017, with you in government, only half of what grew between 2000 and 2008, Galicia's GDP would be $23 billion more than it is now. That's the brutal hole that no longer inherits: 23 billion less wealth every year. And the same thing happens to the job. If in the nine years they've been governing employment, only half of what was growing between the previous nine years, including the coalition government between the PSOE and the BNG, there would be 317,000 jobs in Galicia more than there is now. I'm not going to do a counterfactual analysis or an advertising and propaganda analysis, I'm going to make a real balance: the comparison of how we were when Feijó took the presidency and how we are now. A very negative real balance, because Galicia today has less employment, more precarious jobs, worse wages, more poverty, more inequality, backward demography, cut public services, part of our destroyed productive fabric, and even we run out of our own financial entities. In ten years. We have 120,000 jobs less than in 2009 despite the change in the economic cycle. We still need to recover 6 out of every 10 jobs destroyed to be back where we were ten years ago. A figure, Counselor, and here I'm going to stop... my BNG and PSOE comrades have entered into many figures that I share, but I'm going to stop in this, which is the following: How would you qualify a government that had publicly gone out saying that its goal is job destruction? Would you say he's irresponsible, antisocial, incompetent? Well even if it's hard to believe, this is the central goal of the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan, as you said here. You said that by 2020, after three People's Party legislations, you intend to reach a level of occupation of 1.1 million people in Galicia. How busy were there in 2009? There were 1.2 million people working. So what you're talking about is that, after twelve years of government, the level of employment in Galicia is 100,000 jobs less than when they arrived. Twelve years later! The central goal is to destroy jobs. Counsellor, to see if you can explain it when I go back to this gallery, because we are facing an unprecedented case in the history of the world economy, a government that aims to close three mandates, three mandates, twelve years!, with a lower number of jobs than it was when it began to govern. Less employment and more precarious, because half of the working class has a temporary contract, works part-time or route between unemployment and precarious work. Precarity that especially affects women, who bear part-time work, and younger people. Less jobs and more unemployment, because there are 186,000 people looking for jobs in Galicia, 25,000 more than at the beginning of 2009. We're moving forward a little by what they call axis 1 of their strategic plan, called Empresability and smart growth. In this case, the results of your government are something better, it only took you ten years to go back to the exit box, back to the level of GDP that was when they started ruling. It's not bad like a government balance that boasts of being a good manager, a lost decade! But we stopped for a moment in the concept of smart growth. Counselor, I'll ask you a question. What's interesting to you is to reduce the weight of the industrial sector and to gain the weight of low value added services? Is that your model? Because since you once again occupied the Galician Union the industry has suffered a breakdown, and now it has brought only 14% of GDP, the lowest figure in the entire modern history of our country. A fall in the weight of the industry that obviously reflects the employment figures. Today there are 41,000 industrial jobs less than in 2009. Since they run, we've lost 1 out of every 5 jobs in the industry. Counsellor, this industrial downturn will have something to do with the failure of the government's R & D policy. As you well said, 0,9 % of GDP budget, compared with an average of 1.2 % of the European Union and the European Union of 2%; then, in addition, it is not implemented. Deindustrialization complements the third-generation of the economy, with a growing weight of services already reaching 70%. So far there would be nothing to object, because it could be a smart strategy to grow on advanced services. But no, unfortunately for our country it's not like that, it's all the opposite. Branches of services that grow older are trade and hospitality. A country of waitresses and trade dependents is its model of smart growth? Is losing activity and employment in industry and increasing it in low-value services your model? Counsellor, do you know that trade is already the branch that has the most busy?, who work more people in trade than in the entire industrial sector?, what does one in four people working in Galicia do in a trade or a bar?, what adds trade and hospitality to 80,000 people more than working in the industrial sector? Because the economy is out of control, but it's about low-value added activities and they lose the most advanced ones. For example, the contribution of financial activities to the Greek GDP has decreased by 25% since 2009. Maybe something has to do with the disappearance of the Pastor Bank or the liquidation of the Greek savings banks. Before they call me in order, I'll be done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u116	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u117	The Greek economy came out of recession, but most of the Greek society is still living in the crisis. Galicia 2018 is a country that is more unfair, more unequal, more poor, with less employment, with more unemployment, with lower wages and greater work insecurity. We have less working rights, less social protection and worse public services than Galicia in 2008. That's why, Counselor, you should apologize, apologize. To say, Mr. Counsellor, that they did everything they could, but it was not enough because of the worldwide recession, the policy of the Troika, the cuts of the central government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u119	But going up to this rostrum and saying that Galicia is better than never being an insult to the citizenship that In Marea will not tolerate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u120	Thank you, Mr. Lago. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, I would like to begin by congratulating the Councillor on his request for this appearance — which no group has requested — to assess the execution of the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020, which in turn is an exercise of accountability and transparency. It brings a specific debate on the Strategic Plan, but it certainly has a long journey and a broad and general nature because it affects all government actions from 2015 to 2020. So it includes an assessment of the fact, where we are and where we want to go — that is why it has been a long journey — and of a general nature because, of course, it allows a general approach, so scarce in these times of communicative immediacy and appeal to emotions, in action, politics, which, if noble and important, is precisely because it allows us to think and order social priorities to, among all, be able to contribute to the better life of each one of our citizens. From the group that supports the Government, it certainly causes a certain surprise, that it is the Government itself who bravely submits the control of its action, in the long term, to this chamber, and also does so with a great deal of transparency. Madam PSOE spokesperson, given the proximity you have to Mr. Losada's spokesperson, it seems that military subscribers to the anti-Power party are also being paid. I just want to remind you, for the sake of transparency, I can give you my copy that I have gone down, a word about 200 pages and lots of accounting information, precisely from the evaluation of the Strategic Plan. We're not talking about PowerPoint, we're talking about transparency that's hanging on the website. [[Applause]] Appearance is timely, and even timely in time. Even as I know the counselor, I know he's a person of systematic and outstanding work. We're going to the date they criticized so much, I don't know why. I think it's no coincidence that we discussed the evaluation today, when the approval of the plan was just two years ago, specifically at the plenary session of May 10 and 11, 1996, so just half of the strategic plan. Besides it was a very long debate, it had begun much further behind the last debate we had in this House. I recall that this debate was the end of a participatory process where all universities were; where all social agents, employers, trade unions; where representatives of the third sector were; where the administration itself was through different departments. The work of a year was delivered to this House, which had a month since the counsellor's appearance to analyze it and another month to present amendments. Indeed, two years ago exactly we approved the Strategic Plan, which, by the way, incorporated 32 improvements presented by the Socialist Group; another 32 between 29 AGE and 3 of the Joint Group, that is, 32 of what are now The Tides; and finally 10 of the Nationalist Block of Wales, 25% of the total allegations made to this plan in this House. Nothing, of course, has been said here. It was a participatory, solvent plan that showed that some of us shared certain goals, as the socialist spokesman just said, and others did not share them. For example, the representative of Alternative Glaga de Lefta — since she is heir to the current En Marea group — clearly said that they were not in favour of opening up the Greek economy, that a strategic objective was to increase exports, that they preferred an self-sustained economy, and they presented to us amendments such as those referred to in food sovereignty. In fact, we do not share our goals. These objectives, of course, have clashed with ours, which are briefly: to effectively integrate the Greek economy into the European economy, into a world that tends to be globalized. Finally, here we approved a strategic plan that was formalized in physical support, oriented with rationality and perspective, which introduced a hierarchy of priorities. It was integral, I mean, it compromised all of the government's action, which requires for its implementation a coordinating effort. One thing we must also point out is that this government, the difference between others, works in coordination. It was realistic, because it was based on an analysis of Dafo — i.e. weaknesses, threats, opportunities and strengths — that was very much praised by the opposition, which even came to say that it was like an amendment to the whole of what the Government had done so far. Obviously, it was because they read only the column of weaknesses and not the column of strengths. But the truth is, Dafo's analysis was very much praised on that occasion. Not only does he have these four characteristics that I'm referring to, the author's ones, which he theorized about the convenience of planning in economic strategic action, but, fifthly, we say he was cyclical; that is, he could be evaluated, which is exactly what is being done today. So, as I said, there were many compliments. I want to remember what the representative of the PSOE said: So, counselor, I'm going to the diagnosis and objectives that sound good, but reality denies what you're offering here today. There was a good evaluation of the plan's objectives. Certainly, the Block characterized it as a toast to the sun. The AGE spokesperson said it was propaganda and a country didn't govern with arguments. And the PSOE, again, said that the background prevents optimism in its realization. I mean, there was a good assessment of Dafo's analysis, a good assessment of the objectives and a certain skepticism about the ability of the Board to fulfill them. And precisely to justify that this was not a toast to the sun or an argumentary, the counsellor is here today, to prove what is being done. As I have little time, what I'm going to do is not compare what the counselor today presents to what the counselor himself foresees, but I'm going to compare it with what the opposition itself hoped for from the Strategic Plan. As he said, there are multiple data, multiple variables. I just referred to a report after the follow-up. The spokesperson for the Galego Nationalist Block — my respected spokesperson for that of the Block, as respected as the spokesperson for today, who you know we respect it because it usually addresses the issues with the seriousness that matters require — and I quote literally: "It is difficult to oppose a plan that establishes, among other purposes, to grow above 2.5 % of GDP; to create more than 100,000 new jobs; to reduce by 100,000 people at risk of poverty or to converge eight points with the European Union and five with the Spanish state." That's what the Block said back then, that it was hard to oppose a plan that had pursued these goals. Let's remember them. Target of GDP growth. The target was 2.5% growth. Growth, 3.6. Mr. Lago, it's convenient, when you bring growth figures, look at the INE when you check them out. The revised INE, official real growth figures, not nominal growth, are; 2015, 4.2; 2016, 3.6; 2017, 3.1; average, 3.6. Mr. Lago, I also sometimes don't have time to look at the revised figures, but counsellor, when he presents something in the Chamber, brings the actual figures and the contrasted figures. Therefore, growth of 3.6. The latest data we have, for example from the Abanca Forum, are giving us 3.8 growth figures in the last month. So ambitious target 2.5, actually 3.6. According to the objective that marked the opposition: creating 10,000 jobs. We have had 55,000 jobs created since the start of the PEX application; the last EPA speaks of 16,500 new busy; thirteen quarters followed — that is, more than three years — of consecutive ups, 1,050,000 busy. The last data gave the best employment rate in the first quarter since 2011; the lowest unemployment rate in the first quarter since 2009 and the second highest since 2005. Looks like we're doing well on the target of 100,000 jobs. Reduction of the risk of poverty, third fact that it was difficult to resist. Poverty risk rates — i.e. people at risk of poverty — have decreased 100,000 that were marked in the plan; 76,214 according to the balance sheet presented to us by the Government today. It happened at a rate of 22.6 to 20.3, i.e....
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u122	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u123	...7.6 points less than Spain and 3.2 points less than the European Union. Exactly, we want to keep this rate down. Fourth data, convergence. In 2017 we achieved greater convergence with Spain, 1.8 % in terms of per capita GDP, and for the first time more than 90% of per capita GDP in Spain. And with the European Union, in the period 2015-2016, a convergence of 2.7 points, all this official data from Eurostat and the National Institute of Statistics. In these goals that were difficult to oppose, it turns out we're doing well, even in some of them very well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u124	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u125	We could go to others, we could leave them for the replica. But, in any case, what is left out is that the Strategic Plan meets not only the expectations of the Government, but those that the opposition had to see it hard to oppose the approval of the plan. I can only congratulate the counselor, the Government and above all the Greek society, because things never manage at all but can go better or worse, and this assessment tells us that they're going better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u126	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Replica, advisor to Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u127	Thank you again, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my first speech, obviously within a context of certain parliamentary formalism, I tried to offer the data reflecting the situation we are in today, three years after the Strategic Plan. Indeed, I think we should all bear in mind that the participatory process so broad that the Strategic Plan began in the second quarter of 2015, precisely because we realized that this started to change and that we should raid this new roadmap, with higher priority resources from that year to try to accompany that which was very incipient economic recovery. Obviously, it did not end until the references that were made here by two of the opposition groups, with respect to what was May 2016, but if there was a very long debate, and what if I can forward to it is that even the budgets for 2016, which were the first as advisor I presented, already contemplated the structure, that incipient and not finished at all, because what Galicia needs, above all, is planning. What we have is to unite — using that phrase that seems to be handy, but that is a crushing sense — with the present and the future, because there we will minimize improvisations and we will try to succeed, knowing that correcting everything, given the complexity of what we have in our hands, is something impossible. But it all indicates that the data are sufficiently positive in this evaluation, an evaluation after a very large follow-up that is completed by 2016, as you well know. What is 2017 is a step forward that we're going to end now, the second trimester of this year -- i.e. in very few months -- to put ourselves in what would already be a review of the plan, not as much as a general review and questioning, but because there are things we need not to redirect, but if we affect, because we're detecting that in some matters there are certain evasia. It's not all right, but objectively I think the situation is more than good in general terms, which is my first approximation. I believe it is an act of transparency because society offers such detailed information, with so many financial indicators, of results, and not financial ones. I think it's an exercise that we have to do as a society. Interestingly, there is no autonomous community in Spain that is in this exercise, first planning and, second, tracking and evaluation. So, I think it's something that we owe to society, something that obviously all of you participate in. But, as I told you, it's not so much history, and it's not that we were right at that time or almost right at the measures we're implementing, but this has to serve us for what's ahead. We still have a lot to do, but it also helped him that the first data we're having from 2018 is clearly positive. When, for example, the indicator points out that we are in February — the last published by them — at 3.8%, I think we should congratulate ourselves, because we are maintaining a high rate of economic growth. When such an independent and increasingly prestigious body, such as [...], points out that Galicia is one of the communities in which it is growing most in the first quarter, we must also congratulate ourselves. When another organism can be Ceprede, it says that as an average and as a minimum we will be in 2.8% this year — I think we are today slightly above that amount — I think we should all congratulate ourselves. But all the sectoral data we're going to have, or almost all of them -- I'm going to refer to some here -- they're also saying that. Mr. Lago was currently referring to the industry. Industry in 2016 and 2017, and this year 2018, I think it's driving economic recovery very clearly. Industrial production, for example, is growing by 14.7% in February. That's also what we need to measure, not just make history, but see where the new data comes from, and obviously we're at rates five times higher than the Spanish averages. So this data does not conform to the whole reality of the industrial sector, but it indicates that things start to change and go the right way. Does that mean we have everything done and with self-comprehensibility? In no way can my words deduce that question. I always think about what to do; or we always think, better said. For example, when we consider exports, they're increasing by 19.5%. To grow into two digits, you have to value what it means. Even though we have not grown so high, an economy as internationalized as the Greek economy, with different companies of different sizes, different sectors, increasingly incorporating, if we are able to place our goods and our services, Mr. Lago, if we even place our services qualified in a world market, it will be, for some reason, will be!, in a third-party economy. You don't have to be afraid of the outsourcing of the economy either, but that's what I'm going to refer to in a moment too, to some of the appreciations that you've made as well and which you curiously just said to Mr. Puy. Because to confuse what's nominal and real... is that, really, I, obviously, like most of you, have a personal appreciation for it, but right now, from this forum, say that the real growth of the Greek economy in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 is not at 3.6%... is that then we can hardly discuss whether we've already asked those questions! If we don't know it's a given advance of the INE, a provisional data and a definitive data, there's something missing, there's something missing, Mr. Lago! So, with all due respect, the reasoning that has been given then is very much questioned. I'm not going to say invalids, but they're very questioned. It is a shame not to understand what is 4.2% of the latest INE review, of which is the German GDP on this date. As I was also referring to sectoral data, to the service sector, which is also good, when certain references are made here to where the economy grows, I wouldn't think of the people who work in the hostel as unintelligent. You remember, we're also having a certain age, as well as at the beginning of the 1980s, nobody thought that certain business examples of a world character that we have here, in mature sectors, could mean the most important in the world. There are no good sectors or bad sectors, there are sectors and companies that do their job very well. Let's put all that in value. There's even intelligence in the hostel, Mr. Lago. Prestigate some of those people! [[Applause]] Trade. Trade sales, as you all know, are growing in a very clear way, and also above the Spanish average in March, 2.6% and why? Because there's a reactivation of consumption. You mean we're getting fees we all want? Perhaps they are not the desirable ones entirely, but this growth, as I have ever said in this Parliament, is like that of our mountains, that we are a little softer at the ascent and also a little smoother at the descent. It's not bad to go this way up. Why? Because behind it is the recovery of the available income that our families have, and that comes from the job as well, as I'll mention in a moment. The service sector in general, which is growing in February, for example, to 3.5%, and which has already accumulated two years in total in positive terms. I think we should all be happy, knowing that it's not all right, but that most of the data we have as a society, and so they're telling us. From my words, both in previous and present intervention, and from the Government, in no way can they deduce that we are here with excessive triumphalism and self-comprehensiveness, in no way! I often referred to that in my first intervention. But it's logical, and sometimes as a society, we don't do that favor to recognize the data we have and also to rejoice at what we're achieving, these positive data of growth, employment, exports, education, inclusion, convergence. And even, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, before I forget, one thing is being aligned with the 2020 Strategy, and another thing is that in certain parameters, given where we left, we're not going to achieve everything we want. The other would be assuming impossible, not physical, but metaphysical. As you will understand, we are dealing with something a little bit more humble, trying to accompany that recovery, because after this plan there will be another one, and after 2020 it is certain that there are 2221 and 2222 for those around here. Mr. Puy also made reference — I don't like it very much, but from time to time it must also dive into what was said about the strategic plan — to Mr. Jorquera when he intervened. I won't stop at everything I had, because I also had the same appointment with Mr. Jorkera. By the way, one of the people who worked in the most positive of that -- others not so much -- in a long period that we've been discussing the strategic plan. My gratitude not as a person, but for the effort he made, which was very enriching. By the way, and apart from what Mr. Puy said a moment ago, that it was difficult to oppose a plan with these types of increase of 100,000 new jobs, Mrs. Rumbo, by the way, in the formulation of the plan it was always talked about 80,000 to 100,000, never scored 100,000. And we're certainly about 100,000 more than 80,000, but well, let's just keep going. But there's an appointment that Mr. Puy didn't make. A little more polite than me, he stayed a little earlier. After saying this about creating jobs, lowering the unemployment rate to 10%, among other things, what I was pointing out is: the role lasts everything, but where do you have to sign? Where to sign? Each and every one of the parameters I just told you with data are out of date, all of them and every one of them! But was that same expression used by Mr. Santín, who was then the spokesperson in this matter of the PSdEG, who also said, "Where should we sign?" I don't ask them to sign, what I'm telling them is that we must have enough rigour to measure. And I think it's good that document that's hanging out on the website for you to look at, and everyone you want, how things are done, how follow-up and evaluation is done, and by who does it, too. And, as always, with its own means, which I think is the right way. Of course, why is this transfer made? To get to know her, but also to get her close. We don't have the heritage of intelligence in any way. The one about work, but the one about intelligence doesn't. [[Laughter]] I suppose, therefore, that both socialists and nationalists would not think about signing the results of the first three years, and I should ask Mr. Jorquera and Mr. Santín, who were then to work a lot on this matter. It's a pity Mr. Sánchez isn't here, because he also participated, though not in such proactive terms. Mr. Sánchez then was at AGE, and what Mr. Sánchez was coming to say was that they basically believed that these objectives—and a little bit also said here differently Mr. Lago—we changed their name, and where Galicia puts it here may be any other region or autonomous community, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter, because when we make a rigorous evaluation, we see that the behaviour of the Greek economy, and also in social indicators, our community is above the average and above the communities that are currently with us. Does that mean that we feel completely in line with the results we have today and that we cannot improve? Not at all. But let's value what we're doing! When you talk here and you get data... I'm not saying we're just collecting data from EPA, registered unemployment data, social security affiliation data, statistical data, to make them more or less comparable, at European level, than jobs and equivalents. Everyone can search in a quiet way, and even with some rigor, but what's clear is that the EPA, for example, in the first quarter, what you're telling us is that there's more work indefinite. Work is not only amount, but quality. That's also what we need to value — and there's more full-time work — when things are questioned here. You mean we can be satisfied with the data they reflect? I'm not saying that, but comparatively they're better than we had, and above all better than the behavior that the rest of the Spanish economy is having. So you have to put it in value. If we consider that in Galicia workers have a full-time contract of 86.3%, and in Spain 85.1%, why don't we say so? Why don't we say they have an indefinite contract of 73.3%, which is practically identical to the Spanish average, which is 73.9%? Let's not be afraid to put numbers and say things with property. Nor are we afraid to say that in 2017 wages grew by 3.77%, which has been that we were the second community after Navarre where they grew most; and that we grew by more than 3 points — when wages are criticized — than the Spanish economy is doing. So something we'll be doing well as a society. [[Applause]] We'll do something good when we talk about wages and we're talking about that in the public sector there was also an increase last year, and we hope that the increase this year will bring us to 2%, but in the period 2018-2020 the Autonomous Community of Galicia — and just like us very few — will approach at least 9%. Let's put that in value! Let us highlight what has been talked about so many times in this Parliament, so it also means about business society in the civil and commercial field, where we are saying that this is the moment when each company starts to look at its results and is moving them, as far as possible, depending on that greater productivity that in terms of means it is also being detected, which are the payrolls of its employees and employees. I think it's good to say it. As it is also wrong to say, when it comes to inclusion, that poverty increases in Galicia. No way! Talking about poverty is always bad, it's like debt, and you're talking to them about the councillor of Fairy. These are those words that are born bad. But do you mean in comparison that we are worse than we were with the closest ones? No way! But how can I be convinced when you analyze the different rates and we're talking about over 10 percent or 10 percent? No way! And what we must also say, for example, when we talk about the rate of risk of poverty, which is now 19%, small data!... It's that when we were in economic favor with a two-party government, it turns out that it was in 20.9%. What are we left with? Is 19% less than 20.9%? I think yes, I think yes, and we must all rejoice at that, that we have better data! But does that mean 19% is a good thing? How can I be glad of that if in the end each person is there and we're talking about 19%? That's not in this government or anyone else, but let's put things in value for what's being done! As well as when you're saying about emigration in general, young people, girls... I think you have to have a little bit more rigor, because the latest official data, both INE and IGE, what they say is that Galicia is the autonomous community where emigration is smaller than all autonomous communities. It turns out we have, year 2016 — last official data — 0,82. Emigration rate of autonomous communities, 1.45. And we're still wrong about these points. But when we talk about young people, for example, it turns out that in young people between 16 and 34 years of age in the last year we've won 143 inhabitants. If we choose what the INE considers to be juvenile population, that for labour market purposes — as far as I know — is less than 25, it turns out that we earn 957 inhabitants; and so for every stretch we're seeing. And we're following the matrecola of emigration. What's going on, very early, is a return. Is that enough to recover everything we have to recover? I'm not saying that! But we have to change some guard because if we don't, we don't realize that this has just changed. So let's put a little more value on the situation. Like when you were talking about R+D+i here too. In my relatively flat message of my first intervention, on some subjects, it was deduced that in R+D+i we have to do a lot of things. The first is to plan — we have already done so — and the second is to provide resources — we have done so — and the third is to execute them. We need to keep in mind that we're between hard management funds, they're not lost, they're incorporated, but we're speeding up. That also needs to be taken into account, but there's no need to know much about public economic management. And when we look at what growth is, within the demand, and the importance it has, even now, the set of R & D+i in Galicia, the last known data that tells us is that our companies, for example, are increasing their investor effort. Enough? No, no, no, no. But we're talking about, for example, that they increased by 9.3%. They're starting to be figures that are already sounding to us a little bit more. It turns out that we have over 900 companies that are investing, and in the last year that we have here collected, closed — that was 2016 — it turns out that more than 500 million euros are investing in R+D+i. Something's getting better. Companies, therefore, are making an effort, but still the intensity should be greater. If we talk about intensity, it turns out that the intensity in R+D+i our companies are 2.2%, when the average Spanish is 2%. Enough? No, because we left below, but we're already positive about what is the most homologable behavior we have. So, I'm telling you, the most important thing in this matter is to have clear priority set in your sectoral planning, which is 20% more than I was talking to you. When we're talking about demography, let's not confuse, please, what is demography, all that has been demographic decline since the early 1980s in the behavior of the autonomous community, which is to put into value decisions, and at this moment we're not going to look at a true result because we have to deal with it from an integral perspective. But what is clear is that, every time we talk about demographic crisis, one of the first values that has to do with demographics is, for example, everything that has to do with childhood education from 0 to 3 years. In 0-3 years we have the parameters above, practically, of any developed European region. We're talking about almost 40%, when the recommended rate is 33, and we go on and on. And this will come to deal with it? Don't! This is one of the fundamental but not the only issues; but as an indicator, that's why I was telling them. Like, for example, when we confused certain data that were given here by an opposer. For example, when we talk about the employment rate, in this case I'm going to refer to a very specific employment rate of young people, for example, which is the rate of between 20 and 64 years of what female employment can be. Equality must be preached by example and results. It turns out that in 2014 we had a female employment rate that was at 56%, exactly 56%, and in 2017 we have it at 61.2%, when the goal -- obviously -- is to reach 67% by 2020, because we left very below, when the optimal should be above 70%, so these results go in the right line. And most importantly, more than I can refer from this rostrum to certain issues, is that no one has the truth. What we have is exposure and work behind us, realizing that there's still a lot left to do. So I think the balance is good; very good in some respects and in other good things. And this government is asking for cooperation and asking for those suggestions that it would also make us some member of the opposition at its own time. Because I think it's very important that we consolidate the objectives and indicators that are working better. And we must also focus on strengthening those areas in which it is necessary to give a boost so that we can really achieve the goals that as a society we brand ourselves in 2015, in 2016, and in that 2020, which is already beginning to abrupt in a very different way than we had at that time, always for the benefit of the Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u128	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. [[Pause.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u129	With a little fear that you will use these words when you stop being a Member, I will dare say that I have two matches — two — with Mr Martínez and Mr Puy. The first is that I also miss Mr. Paco Jorquera very much always, even though I have the pleasure, fortunately, of continuing to coincide with him in the militancy and in the bodies of the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Applause]] And the second one is that I have also read the Journal of Sessions corresponding to this debate, of course. I was not a Member, and then, when I prepared this meeting, I scubated myself in that hemero library too. Then he had the fortune, Mr. Martínez, that after listening to Mr. Puy I chose the same appointment as you, and then I will complete it. So Mr. Jorquera literally said, "There's a saying that the paper supports everything, but in order for the plan to be credible, public policies have to be consistent with the objectives announced, and they have to be accompanied by concrete measures and budget allocations." I subscribe to every word of Mr. Jorquera because, in the light of the data we see — and some other example I will put — the truth is that they didn't go the way you were marking. And, in fact, about the theory, since BNG we'd like that all those targets were met automatically tomorrow, even though some of them have nuances about them or others seem insufficient. But the question is that the result is not so, together not; partly, of course, you take the clues you want. Surely, if at that time, Mr. Martínez, he had done a little more of a case to Mr. Jorquera and they had incorporated that social emergency plan that we were demanding, for example, perhaps they would have halved poverty and would not be in the current indexes. That is also why I made a number of proposals on the part of the Galician Nationalist Bloc and other action groups that should incorporate this plan. It's also interesting to see that some of them have been given, because, indeed, even though you say it's a dynamic plan and that it's possible to incorporate reorientation proposals, you haven't announced us here any. We expect them to be incorporated in the next few months and we can meet them, because if we don't, instead of evaluation, we'll be talking, once again, about self-comprehensiveness and propaganda. As I say, I would not stop taking advantage of to quote at least — although I have little time — two examples of issues that in good faith and positive proposed the Galician Nationalist Block, which you have dealt with and in which you have not acted. In one of them — to set an example for a different sector — we came up with proposals around the milk sector, in which there was a lot of social concern at the moment. Today, the picture we have is that 80% of what is produced in our country ends up going to foreign capital, and about 50% becomes even outside our country. Therefore, a sector in which we have already put forward initiatives and which seems to us insufficient to deal with the situation. Another very interesting one — since I suppose we can talk more at tomorrow's meeting, Mr Martínez — we were already thinking about the difficulties of access to credit. Nor is it enough for us to do that, and we have to say that Mr. Jorquera's fears were quite well founded and true. But besides, you jumped a paragraph in the answer you literally quoted in this House and I'd like to go back. I was referring to the evolution and convergence of per capita GDP with regard to Europe and to the fact that the previous plan, as I have insisted, was not fulfilled. We see, therefore, that if Ben Galicia has averaged from 80% to 82% with the European Union in the last year available to us, we see that it is not as much as they sell us, because it still stands at 82% on the European Union average, far away from 91% that is supposed to be at the levels prescribed. And in that sense, we have to take into account this parameter that accelerated population loss since 2011 also influences. More questions we don't agree on? His appreciation for the youth population. Since you came to the Government, a lot of young people have been lost between 16 and 34 years of age, 161,000 girls and boys. And that's more than just joining...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u130	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u131	...all the population of Ourense, Artexo and Fene together. And we could go on with more questions that exemplify that there's really a lot left to go on and that you have little desire to incorporate opposition proposals and little will to make a deeper diagnosis. And that would require a deeper change in your policies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr. Pedro Puy, I already know that your role here is to praise the Government of the People's Party, and sometimes tell us things that don't correspond and, above all, things that even try to disqualify our role and our work as parliamentarians. But, look, I've got the 2016 follow-up, that big one you're talking about -- you're here, okay? -- and I read it, too; but 2017's a PowerPoint. And if you have another 2017 document that doesn't match, maybe it's a document that's not hanging on the web and so the opposition groups -- don't laugh -- don't have it. [[Applause]] So please don't try to discredit our work as parliamentarians, neither do we. Thank you for your master's classes, but in this case I think we've come here to do politics and not to do college classes. Having said that, I reaffirm — and the adviser himself in this second intervention — that participation in drawing up this plan can and should be called upon to society because there may be variations, there may be deviations from what was originally proposed. So what we ask is that in these evaluations we also consider the participation of society so that, really, it is a strategic plan for the whole of citizenship. So I ratify your words. It is also true, Counsellor, that in this second intervention — I don't know if it is because the media are no longer around now — you have been much more concise and much more consistent with reality; much more consistent with reality. I'll also tell you that we're a little tired that if you tell us that we're not rigorous in our interventions. Look, plan, INE -- I don't know what you want -- EPA, and up to the data from BBVA studies, which won't hesitate to be with us any more than you do. I mean, when we bring the data here, Counselor, Mr. Puy Fraga, all our data is contrasted, including the population pyramid. These are data from the IGE, so if they're not like that, somebody's hanging things on the web that are not right, and something they have to do, that you're the ones that're ruling. [[Applause]] Turning back to the intervention and to the data it was giving at first, which obviously did not give me time and now will not give me time, I tell you that the Regional Observatory of BBVA itself says that the Galician Community will have the worst behaviour of all autonomous communities in terms of job creation. Yes, everything, everything. Overall increase of between 2.4 % and 2.5%, and Galicia will have 1.3%. So about 50% of all autonomous communities, and considering that GDP is going to have a lower growth, but in any case it's going to be more or less similar for all autonomous communities as well. I also tell you, Counselor, Mr. Puy, and I say it with all the love of the world, because I am a Welshman and I would like things to be much better, and our role as opposition here is precisely trying to make things go better and try to get closer to improving the activity of the government itself. So, I ask you, will you not also have something to do with this data that we have to do with our jobs, which are not good, and you yourself can see it and you know perfectly well that they're not good for Galicia, that a game like 32, Job Promotion and Labour Market Institutions, in 2017 only run at 56%, i.e., they're left without running 133 million euros? Can't that be a cause too? Can't it be a cause that in three years, 2015-2017, you leave without running 357 million euros? Wouldn't that improve the 68,900 homes with all their members unemployed? Or the 34,300 homes without any income, how did Mr. Losada explain perfectly? Or that 50% of the homes in Greece didn't have to mean that they came with difficulty or with much difficulty at the end of the month?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u134	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u135	I'm sure that would be the case. In the board's own document, you set out that the number of people benefiting from employment promotion and employability action is 16,538, i.e. 10% of the total average unemployed in 2017. You yourself claim that the data is not good, as much as you say here. And look, last time I can give, because I know I don't have time. In the 2017 PowerPoint document itself, in that number 1, employability and smart growth, they leave 263 million euros out of execution in 2017, Counselor, and you know it. And in the total budgeted 2017 they leave 637 million...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u137	...of euro. And I know you said that those who plan don't improvise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u139	...but look, planning is not running, and if it is not running, it does not apply to correct the measures initially planned.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u141	And so that's what we ask you to do, not plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u143	...but they do. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u144	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u145	Counselor, you didn't answer my central question. Is the strategic plan aimed at reaching 1.1 million jobs in 2020? If that's the case, if we compare it to the year 2009, which was 1,200,000, what is the net balance of three legislatures? I'd appreciate it when I went up to the gallery to answer this question, which is simple. Is the target 1,100,000? There were 1,200,000, twelve-year-old government logo will end with 100,000 fewer jobs? Say it! Second. The People's Party, the Government, is logical, uses a reference date that facilitates its balance. Everything that works with statistical series does. You take the year 2014, which is the blackest of the crisis, of the recession, and of course from there everything improves all over the world. What's your problem? They've been ruling since 2009, five years earlier. Therefore, a rigorous balance of government action must include as reference the first or second quarter of 2009. Of course, since the deepest pit of the 2014 recession, the situation has changed all over the world, that the economy grows, that jobs grow and that economic variables are better, of course! What we're saying is that you, the Troika, the central government, the cuts, the austerity, are the culprits that we've spent ten years lost. Counselor, the economy is growing but divided in an unequal and unfair way. I don't know if you know, but we have the same level of GDP in Galicia as in 2008, but the part of GDP destined to pay wages is EUR 3,000 million less. Why? Because there's 120,000 less busy and because people have worse wages. And that causes social frustration. If you add that to the cuts in pensions or public services, you explain that in today's CIS, in the same way that your party is on the way that my colleague Pancho Casal posed, in today's CIS, says 93% of Spanish citizenship says that the economy is bad, regular or very bad, or 93%! They don't believe that speech. But I'm going to end my favorite theme, this one of GDP growth. It wasn't you, Mr. Puy, I don't know if you tried to disqualify me by saying that when you come to a debate you have to bring the data, the information, and I asked my colleague Fajardo, who is very efficient, to bring me the screen you can see at the IGE Economics and Business Council, where the growth of GDP appears... I don't know why you're laughing, Counselor. Does the IGE cause you to die? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] GDP growth, IGE — Galego Institute of Statistics — 2015, 2016 and 2017. According to the IGE, in 2015 the German GDP grew by 2.4%. In 2016, or 3.1 per cent. And in 2017, 3.1%. That's what the Galego Institute of Statistics says, this is taken five minutes ago from the board website. And I'm going to place it, Counselor, because the advantage of this is that it is recorded, and then Mr. Puy can pull out what has been said four years earlier. What has been, Mr Counsellor — say here — the real growth — which is really how these issues are measured — of the Greek economy of GDP in 2015, 2016 and 2017? Say it, please put the data in, because as it's going to be recorded, we'll all picture ourselves. I say, and I leave this paper here, that the Galego Institute of Statistics is 2.4%, 3.1% and 3.1%. At the bottom of the question, there is economic growth, there is a new phase of the economic cycle, which allowed, after three years of growing, that we reached the same level as we had in 2009. A decade lost! A lost decade that, if as I did in the counterfactual analysis didn't happen, this country would be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u146	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u147	...radically different. And at this stage of economic growth, which is the natural stage of GDP growth, is what has always happened, in 28 of the 30 years before the year 2007, that is normal, because there are variables that evolve positively. What do we say? That this growth is being unfairly distributed in the primary distribution of income between wages and business profits, and unjustly distributed in the secondary distribution with government action. I'll finish by saying, please answer the first question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u148	Thank you, Mr. Lago. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u149	To solve the problem faster, I mean I don't come here to praise the Government, though there are times that deserve it, as today. I don't come here to disqualify anyone either. And a joke about PowerPoint, I think it's not for you to take things that way either. And much less I come to teach. If I came to teach, I'd be at my university square. Still, I agree with Mr. Casal, who likes to hear Mr. Losada when he gives class. Me too, I like it. What one day you have to explain to me the PSOE spokeswoman is that we haven't come here to speak strictly because we're doing politics here, because what characterizes a class or university is that the data is handled strictly. You say, don't come here to teach, that is, to explain what professional things are, because here we're doing politics. That contradiction you think, meditate on it, consult with Mr. Losada, and one day he explains it. [[Applause]] Mr. Lago, as I have a team as efficient as Mr. Fajardo at least, I'll leave you here, so you can pick up the INE screen. From the INE, the growth of the INE's GDP. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's just that you cheated on me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You tell me I grow up like Soria and bring me data from the IGE, which I don't compute Soria. So here you go... here you have Soria, no, no... here you have Soria. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. President, I've got the time very fair. Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u150	Yes, yes, that's why. No, no. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u151	I didn't interrupt him. Please, a little... Look, this is where Soria comes out because the corresponding autonomous community, which is Castile. And all the autonomous communities come along. So when we say we don't grow up like Soria, but we're converging like Spain, it's with homogenous INE data. If you want to take the worst IGE data to compare it with the best INE data, it's your problem. [[Applause]] Obviously, every balance—that made it clear to the counselor—has his good things and his worst things, and that's what to learn. So the question is not that everything goes well, because there's data that needs to be improved, for example R+D+i, that there's a general coincidence, although it has to be recognized that public behavior is much better than that of companies, and that the problem is that the lack of investment in innovation in the German business fabric itself. Obviously, for that we are evaluating, to see where the weaknesses are and where to push. The general assessment, allow me to speak to Mr. Jorquera about the Block, the problem is not whether we'd be better off by accepting the amendments to the Block. That we don't know and we're never gonna know, because in 2016 there were also elections and it happened that the People's Party had a lot more votes than the opposition set, right? What we do know, if we look at that debate, is that you said that with this strategic plan we're going to be worse, we're not going to get better. And they also said that the targets were very ambitious and that they had to be shared, that they were impossible to refuse. How do I reject these goals? And what we also know is that today we are fulfilling those goals because they were realistic. And what we know, therefore, is that in that debate we are right because Galicia is better, according to what the Strategic Plan predicted, and you were not right because Galicia is not as bad as you expected if we did not accept its amendments. That is the key to this debate. Obviously, a lot of data has already been given, but I want to finish by asking. That Galicia is growing according to INE and therefore with figures compared to all Spain and Soria, an average of 3.6% of GDP, is it good or is it bad? I ask, is it good or is it bad? Mr. Lago, I know that you make this funny in the good sense of the term. I suppose it's better for Galicia to grow 3.6% that doesn't grow; or 3.6% that's negative, that's what Galicia was like in 2009. Which leads me to ask him. When he talks about lost decades, what decade does he mean? It refers to the decade in which we managed to turn back to the worst crisis in Spain's contemporary history, with effects that left in Spain worse consequences than the Civil War itself in terms of wealth, job destruction, etc.Is that what you're talking about? Or do you prefer that we go back to the decade in which we generated all the issues that led us to have the worst crisis in Spain's contemporary history? When you come to me with the year 2008 and the year 2009, don't you realize there was a financial bubble? Don't you realize that the adjustment in wages has much to do with the increase in wages far above productivity in the decade immediately before? Mr. Lago, that's what I'd ask you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u152	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u153	There was a lost decade, what a lost decade? It was a very concrete decade with the responsibilities of two governments, but basically of the left, that in Spain did not see the crisis come and denied it until the last moment. [[Applause]] Counsellor, during that period Galicia has converged since the vigil of the Strategic Plan. Obviously, this growth we believe would not be so solid as not to be for the Strategic Plan. In addition, it is favoured by political stability. The least developed community last year was precisely the one with the most political instability. A political stability that gives certainty, credibility and trust; that allows you to approve budgets and that also counts with a program, the Strategic Plan, which allows you to measure results. To finish, I just want to thank you again for this visit, positively assess the results achieved in the first three years of the Strategic Plan and humbly encourage the Government so that these good results will serve as a boost to further design and prioritize, year by year, the policies that Galicia most needs to present in 2020 better results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u154	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Close this show, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u155	Good morning again, Mr. President. Two points. Indeed, Mrs Presas, tomorrow we will talk, I think, about the issue of access to credit and also about what I have at the moment called for the disappearance of Banco Pastor. Disappearance, by the way, has already come from 2012, not from the year in 2015, when it comes to Santander. But we'll talk about access to credit tomorrow, although maybe it doesn't give us much of the time we have on that issue. Of course I'll be delighted to answer your indications, if you're the one who formulated them. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I'm going to say a chascarrillo. Please don't get the wrong idea of what I'm going to say, because on the one hand it was taken by certain reports, in this case, a coherent report, careful! How can it be the BBVA you said. Just one question. The correctness of BBVA's reports with this autonomous community over the past three years has been repeated, please, I'm not going to do a valuable trial. Tell them again and then we'll look at the official data, either from the IGE or the INE. [[Applause]] So that the thing may also remain sufficiently... only a nuance to Mr. Puy's words. Here I think it was Professor Puy, actually, because normally to establish comparative data there has to be a certain level of comparability. The IGE, for now, we don't want to be dedicated to measuring Soria's data. No, no, we don't have that kind of Galeguist tendency, so abusive. But one question is true, the IGE also gave certain data since 2009, and then, unfortunately, the economy didn't grow, but it was decreasing. He also gave softer tissues than the ones that gave the INE itself. Now that the recovery began, the IGE was growing in the first year, in 2015, softer than the INE gave. But what is true, too, to record, when so many references are made, is that today the size of Galician GDP according to the IGE is about 115-120 million euros more than those that give the INE. I mean, to see that we are finally positioned on the same contour, but we have to look at them in a relatively broad sense, so it's so important to have rigour without falling into rigorism. It's very important. As it is also very important — and you don't need to know about mathematics or ask yourself for the names and names of all those who made the Chinese wall — if we're talking about the Strategic Plan, occupied then, from 2015 to 2016, 2017 until 2020, between 80 and 100,000 new busy, a year ago, you just have to add, in the worst case, 80, and in other case, 100. It's very clear that they were the busy ones we had by the end of 2014. By the way, IGE data, because we're working on equivalent full-time jobs, to make it comparable at European level, not just in Soria. But we're going to close, because I think the balance — welcome, Mr. Anton Sánchez, before I referred to you too, I hope it was quite literal what I said in 2015 until May 2016, when then also all the goals that we marked ourselves, of an economic and social nature, according to what you had predetermined, could serve for any region or autonomous community, only have to change its name. Three years later, without being triumphalist, the data we present are comparatively much higher than the Spanish average in almost all the parameters. And by the way, quite different from the autonomous communities that are more contiguous with us. So it wasn't worth changing one's name for another and anyone could do it... what happens is that he wasn't very proactive then, very because of work, maybe because expectations were different and eventually people voted what he voted for. But let's go aside. I think the balance — as I said — is good or very good, running away from any kind of self-comprehensiveness. Is the situation we have right now a great one? I can never say that, we're in a theory of relative maximum. As the results are good, it is important that both civil society and parliamentary groups, after analyzing the important documentation they have... Of course, what is definitive is 2016, it was already told you, Mrs. Rumbo, that what is in 2017 is an advance, progress that we will end in this second quarter of 2018, as I told you. Then it will stop being so PowerPoint to be a real report. By the way, PowerPoint menu! Because it has a level of detail, a level of indicators, that is, to master it, you have to know. If you call that PowerPoint... well, it's amazing! Yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's amazing how we play with words. I think that's why, after the biggest process of participation that there was then in planning -- we hope that also in the follow-up and approach by civil society -- I think it's good to make these documents, broad documents, because behind there's a lot of work on what the methodology we've given ourselves to do the tracking. It's a lot of people who work in the administration to make this possible, we'll transfer it transparently to society, which in the round where it's to be told, which brings us closer to those who want to come, because everything is better. We're in the middle of the road and I'm not so worried about it, not so much about the results we have today, being very good, but about consolidating the two main guidelines, which is nothing but consolidating that economic growth, which has to be inclusive. Like I say economic growth I say inclusive, I always used that word. And the first derivative you have to move to is the most and best job. In that we are, I think it's correct figures that we're achieving and hopefully they were slightly higher. Those are the ones we have, and being good could be slightly better. I think this growth is coming to homes, but perhaps not with the intensity that we wanted, that's also good to recognize, but the situation we're in right now is totally different from what we had in 2014, and let's not say it in 2015 and 2016. By the way, we have also given here some undisclosed data of what may be materially severe deficiency. I repeat again, if we're talking about poverty, about data such as materially severe deficiency, because it's already extreme data. Even so, the data presented by our autonomous community is better than the data presented by medium-sized society in Spain. So, not being a good data, we don't recreate it, but put it in value, that something we'll be doing right. So I think if we have more growth, if we're at rates above 3% — 3.4% this year, we're going to be about four years old, INE data, I'm saying in advance, I think it's a good data. Why? Because he's moving to work. As I said, with 2017 closed, there are 55,000 new jobs created, but it's that in this first trimester we're already going for 63,000, so that's good, we're going very quietly to the end of the year at 72,000. Very quietly not, the trend says we're going to reach 72,000 or 72,500, and obviously we're already on the high road to reach 100,000. To the 100,000 we had in 2014, Mr. Lago, I repeat, with an export cycle that's telling us is that we have better companies every time, which are not only putting their products, but their services, third-party economy, advanced world that we all need, as is today our autonomous community. With that society of the future that advances in data such as school dropout, which we already have very well. I wish we had it in 10%, but coming from where we saw it, at this point in time it was 14.9, with 13.5, with a lot of effort, trying to achieve that, it's what marks the trend, that's where we should go, and always with more social inclusion and, of course, with the most convergence at the end. We also realize that we have an important demographic problem that we are facing, and I hope that among all of them this was a country issue that we put on without fighting with others, because that's a lot as society we still have to do. So, I'm one of those who think that, apart from some chascarrillo, we should keep working together to consolidate what we've achieved in recent years and improve, that there are things we have to improve. Because the important thing is the challenge we have: to continue to build among all the Galicia we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u156	Thank you, Counselor. The thing should have been pretty focused because the two reports that happened to me coincide. We suspended the session until 5:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u157	We resume the session with a non-law proposal, as announced in the communication of this change in the agenda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogango, on the negotiation by the Galician Council with the Council of the Crown and the other parties involved in the revision of the 2004 port conventions, as well as the criteria for management, the legal form of the consortium, the financing and access to the external port and the other sections contained in the proposed protocol transferred by the municipal Government of the Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u158	There's a self-amendment from the author parliamentary group itself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u159	Mr Sánchez has the floor for the defense of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u160	Good afternoon, everyone. Let's talk about the port of the Coruña, the land of the port of Coruña. I would like to point out that once again, when this issue is debated, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, Environmental Advisor, is not here. As far as I know, she'll be the candidate of the People's Party in the Coruña, and she's not about to deal with this. Surely because we do not want to be colored when we say that she voted on the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority in favour of privatizing the land — at any meeting in which juicy diets were paid. Mrs. Beatriz Mato first votes in favour of the privatization of these lands and then becomes a candidate for the Crown. I hope citizenship doesn't forget. Well, what we're talking about is that on April 18th and April 18th, the Ministry of Development, Ports of the State and Harbour Authority signed a protocol on the uses of the land of the port of Coruña, a protocol which excluded from the negotiation and its terms the Town Hall of the Coruña, the Government of the Town Hall of Coruña; a protocol so drafted from institutional disloyalty, a protocol written on the margins of the citizen feeling to give legal coverage to a speculative operation, widely contested in the city of Coruña. It's an outrage to the municipal government but also to the citizenry of the Coruña. It's a protocol, therefore, infamous in its forms, a protocol, besides, unacceptable in its objectives. It is at the service of particular interests and partisans and is contrary to the general interest of the city, since, for a long time, the mobilizations of corrupt civil and political society have made it clear how the majority of the city feels about the land of the Harbour Authority of the Crown. There was a frontal opposition to privatization and urban speculation on the land of this port, and it was expressed in an absolutely rotting manner in favor of the preservation of the public title of the coast. The vast majority of the citizens and citizens of the Coruña understand that the Solaina and the Hotel Finisterre, on the one hand, Calvo Sotelo, Battery and San Diego on the other, cannot be the object of a superb urban ballast, as the Harbour Authority wants, but must be at the service of an overall vision of the city, taking into account the general interest and prioritizing its public and staffing use. The use of these lands must be defined by citizenship and the Town Hall of the Crown, which is the institution that has the urban competences and management of land uses once they are disaffected. The signing of the protocol by these administrations with the Galician Board on the Port Lands implies a forced and illegitimate expropriation of the powers of the Council of the Crown, a manifestly anti-democratic expropriation of the right of citizens and citizens of the Crown to decide on the future of the Coruña coast and its public use. While decisions are excluded from the Council of the Crown, which is the administration which has the competence for urban management in the municipal term, it grants control in zone 1 to the Galician Union by purchasing 51% of the land, which gives it the power to block what is done there. And this, of course, is not innocent. The marginalization of the Town Hall in making transcendental decisions for the city is also the marginalization of Coruña citizenship. On the other hand, the content of this protocol does not respect the majority will of corrupt citizens, who are in favour of eradicating speculative and real estate interests in land management. The protocol remained faithful to the 2004 ballast agreements transferred to the 2013 General Plan of Municipal Management approved by the People's Party, where urbanization actions were proposed in San Diego, with thousands of housing up to nine heights for the purpose of financing the costs of the construction of the foreign port or the debt of the Harbour Authority. The big bet of the Harbour Authority is the private engeneration of the port lands and the privatization of the public soil, lands that have been won at sea, in one case, or old communal goods of the city, in another. He intends to change one of the most precious goods in the Coruña: his maritime facade and shoreline. The disaffectation of the wharves of Calvo Sotelo, Battery and San Diego supposes — I should suppose and should suppose — an opportunity for the urban planning of the city and opens the door to its public use, with financial equipment, free spaces and green areas. But this public and financial interest is quite the opposite, on the contrary, to the strategy of the Harbour Authority, the Board of Galicia of Mr Feijóo and Mr Íñigo de la Serna, which seeks the sale of area 2, San Diego — 80% of the land — to private promoters for the urbanization of these land with a majority destination to housing and commercial tertiary uses. But this speculation, still above, will not pay the debt of the port. The speculative protocol will not pay off the debt of the port of Coruña, only to earn a minority of real estate pirates. The planned engenerations will not solve the current structural debt situation of the Coruña port nor will they allow a rebalancing of their accounts. Persisting in the sale of port land as a solution to that debt means being anchored in the 2004 hypotheses when it is expected that the revenues of the sale of these land would pay, to pay, to pay, a third of the cost of the external port. Maintaining that hypothesis today is an absolute depurpose. There is also contempt for citizenship, it wants, out of support interest, interest in the People's Party, whatever it costs, leaving the Town Hall of the Crown, and therefore citizenship, without the ability to decide, and deprive it of its participation in the future management of a fundamental part of its territory, of the harbour shoreline. It is intended to do so without the slightest transparency, negotiating and agreeing on the city of Coruña without the participation of the government and administration representing the interests of those citizens. And it is done as a punishment to a government that is not of the People's Party and does not serve the interests of the friends of the People's Party, the People's Party that is considered with the divine right to rule and that considers intruders to anyone who democratically defeats them. The solution, on the other hand, is, like the proposal made by the local government, to open a negotiation process on the demands widely shared throughout citizenship, as it has become apparent in the mobilizations. This way of negotiating, collaborative, cooperative and democratic processes that reflect the proposal of the local Government encompasses these widely-based demands of citizenship. It's the climate of institutional loyalty, collaboration, in search of these goals. This proposal by the local government is a proposal based on management criteria that affirm the public ownership of port goods and which deals with the necessary integration of the city with the port, to take advantage of this historic opportunity for the transformation of the city. Institutional loyalty should force the Union, the State Ports and the Ministry of Development to agree on a solution under these criteria, rather than to choose the obstruction of dialogue and the obstruction of negotiation in view of poor partisan calculations and electoral interests to campaign a woman who raised her arm to privatize the land of the Port of Coruña. At Junta, Mr. Feijóo and Mr. De la Serna decided to favor the speculators and try to weaken the Government of the Crown. They decided to mortgage the future of the harbour coastline of the city's maritime facade. They're wrong, but they're still in time to fix that mistake to avoid an outrage at the Coruña's citizenship, to find solutions to the protection of general interest and to guarantee the public ownership of the port's lands. In this self-amendment that we have done — because there was no material time for this initiative to enter in time but we propose today — we urge the Galician Union to make the necessary managements to leave the protocol signed without effect, the protocol of shame, the protocol that will pass into history as a protocol of the shame of the People's Party, which cannot hide its nature (...) by this way of action. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this shall be withdrawn.)]] [[Murmurs.]] To restore institutional loyalty and to meet the majority will of the Coruña citizenship... yes, well, it's hard to overcome this morning, when Mrs. Paula Prado called us fascists from En Marea. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's obvious it's hard to get over that list [[Prosequent murmuring.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u161	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u162	He'd be looking at the mirror. We would only need to be told that we have a relationship with drug trafficking or that we have been financed by drug trafficking or that we have been founded by seven franchisors, etc., etc. That's what we needed!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u163	Let's go to the Coruña, which is what matters to the Coruña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u164	Yes, it seems that this bench doesn't care much about what happens in the Coruña. That's why they're saying what they're saying.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u165	Yeah, let's go to the Coruña and get it over with as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u166	We therefore urge the Union to act faithfully, democratically, and to negotiate with the Council of the Crown, with the Harbour Authority and with the Ministry of Development and to review the 2004 conventions — which are a genuine platoon — and which meet the management criteria, the legal formula for land management and the financing contained in the protocol proposed by the Government of the Coruña. It's the majority demand in the Coruña citizenship. They don't want these lands to speculate, they don't want those lands to carry out the election campaign of the People's Party. They love us as an opportunity for the future for The Crown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u167	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. The expression "Antidemocratic People's Party" we removed it, if you like. Yeah, yeah, he said that. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I understand that. No, no, sorry, is that, if that's the case, that's another story. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But I understand you, the anti-democratic People's Party. Then we removed him. Yes, he did, yes, yes. [[Mr. Sánchez García: I just didn't say so.]] Let's take that off. Well, he's retired, he's retired because he's willing to retire. [[Mr. Sánchez García: No, I didn't say so...]] I understood the antidemocratic People's Party. Silence! [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] The expression is removed. Well, I'll check exactly what they said, and on that basis, I'll decide what we do. That's it. That the House's services check exactly what was said and, on the basis of that, I'll decide. It's just... Come on, please! Don't you know that everything is recorded here? That's it, because we're going to do this. Please! It's just that it's something that has no feet or heads. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. For the BNG this parliamentary debate on the maritime facade of the Coruña is necessary, and above all, after what has happened in the last few weeks when the Council of Galicia took part in the Harbour Authority, in the Ports of the State, and not in citizenship, in the city of Coruña and in its historical demands. Because it's a two-part agreement so you try to give a comfortable emergency solution for the People's Party to an ineptitude, or corruption, in the management of the outer port. Why are you going to come to my head now to the City of Culture? The budget forecast at the beginning was 429 million and we're already in 734. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is management and this is competition... this is incompetence. And Nantronte Fômento and Junta — two feet from the same bank — agree to use public property to cover the huge financial hole of the Harbour Authority. Of course, by the way, they are content with the expectations of greedy business sectors on the public's behalf. And also, by step, the Herculine city of areas and shopping malls is given to see if it ends at once with the small trade. In view of the determined and firm opposition, they make the business with a way of commitment to maintain public ownership by providing the German Government, I guess, a maximum of 20 million. The Minister of Development states that such agreements are not common in the Spanish port system. Oh, my God! Since the BNG, we have to say that all those lands we're talking about are public, all of them! And, therefore, any purchase that is intended to be made by any administration is law fraud. Solana and the Finisterre hotel are two occupied and policeed by the corrupt elites in full frankness, in the 1950s. Elites that transformed the beach of the Parrot into the host- sport complex that have enjoyed in privilege since 1968. The concession ended in 2027 and, in anticipation, the municipal government, with its popular mayor Carlos Negroira at the front, made a timely modification of the general plan by changing the use of public financial resources for private use, thus shielding the capacity of companies and removing the city from its recovery. And there was the BNG fighting and denouncing to recover the historical memory of the city and of these spaces, to recover them from the Frankish policeman. With regard to the interior docks of Battery and Calvo Sotelo, the gravity of the facts is no less. This second business has its origin in the convention signed in 2004, when Prestige still lay down those plastic threads, remember? It was a speculative maneuver framed in a council of ministers held in Maria Pita and crafted by three main actors: the mayor—don Francisco Vázquez—, the Minister of Development—Francisco Álvarez Cascos—and the Territorial Policy Adviser—don Alberto Núñez Fexóo— today president. [[Some Members: Done!]] How? As you like, but also as I want. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u169	They don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u170	I can read as I like. Yes, in the end... linguistic disquisitions... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] This ballast agreement states that the external port is financed by the sale of the inland port, opening the door to private initiative and real estate speculation, with provision for the construction of buildings of up to ten highs at sea, all in order to be able to finance a debt of the Harbour Authority of nearly 300 million euros. BNG understands that originally the land was ceded by the city for its marine-fishing use, on the condition that, if that activity and use were gone, the spaces would return to the neighbors. It must also be said that on the wharfs of San Diego there are spaces at the station of goods with an intentional disuse in full disassembly by the Ministry of Development, and the railway reaches the Ourense square in the center of the city. This is the most tasty case of the cake. In addition, we want to remind this House that the external port of Coruña has been committed to an investment by the State included in the Plan Galicia of 2003. Punta Langosteira's works cost 734 million euros. Interestingly, the Ministry of Development, through Ports of the State, is the one who funds the works of southern expansion of the port of Barcelona with 1,312 million euros; also the extension of the port of Xixón, 786; and, in Valencia, 978 million euros. Let us not forget that our outer port is conceived as a logistical necessity and for reasons of maritime safety, so that the Aegean Sea and others are not repeated. For all this, since the BNG we are more ambitious than the PNL itself that presents in Marea. And so we're not just saying that we need to review the 2004 conventions and the protocol recently signed by the President of the Union. We affirm that they must be amended in its entirety in order to ensure that all the spaces on the interior docks of the Crown are returned free of charge and that the financing of the external port is carried out by the general budgets of the State, as is usually done on other sides. It is therefore clear from our complaint that we will support this GNP of the En Marea Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u171	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u172	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. It is true that this morning he attended a legislative initiative on AP-9 the infrastructure advisor. Today we are certainly missing the Territorial Environment and Ordination Counsellor, and a member of the Board of Directors of the Port Authority of the Coruña. It would be of interest if the Pector candidate of the People's Party in the Coruña attended this debate. Because today we are talking about a crucial issue for the present, not only for the future, but also for the present, of the city: the reorganization of the soils of the inner port of the city as they are released on account of the opening of the Langosteira peak facilities. [[Applause]] From the Socialist Parliamentary Group I look forward to supporting this initiative put forward by En Marea, even with the self-amendment tabled. But I think we have to put some points on the is. And in this sense I remember the catastrophe of the Aegean Sea — 1992 — when we still had Urquiola in memory; in 2002, the catastrophe of the Prestige on all the Greek coast, name by name, on the shore of Death. And the Coruña has an oil pipeline, which passes through our soil, six kilometers. And in that sense, the two 2004 conventions, signed precisely by the Council of the Crown and also by the Council of Art with the Ministry of Development and with the Council of Galicia, were, of course, signed by the respective mayors as well. And the 2004 conventions — and I believe that some of the statements made by both Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Rivas — have not been born to bring forward an atrocious speculation from the city. They were born for two main reasons the conventions, and it's enough to read them, and it's enough to know the history of the city as well. First of all, to give more environmental security to the city of Coruña by carrying out the most dangerous discharge activities outside the city. And secondly, to achieve a greater port position of the city of Coruña in the context of the entire Atlantic arc. Another thing will be when we talk about how the outer port of the Coruña is being managed. And another thing will also be to talk — which are major policies and words — about why we do not address the necessary integrations of the different port infrastructures of the entire arch. Then I want to insist on it. The 2004 conventions gave rise to the possibility that the Coruña could have an external port, not only The Coruña, but the metropolitan area and all the northwest. And in that sense we have to remember how those agreements were signed not only by Nuñez Feijóo — from that territorial ordination councilman — and the Minister of Development, but by the respective mayors of the Crown and Artixo. But, of course, fourteen years have passed and economic circumstances, urban circumstances and even sociological circumstances have varied greatly. And, therefore, since the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Municipal Group, it is also considered necessary to carry forward a review of the 2004 agreements. That's why I would insist on making less policies of burnt land and looking forward to the city horizon. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the occasion of this frustrated night auction of the Solana and the Finisterre hotel, presented a number of initiatives, firstly, defending the need for the outer port of tip Langosteira to La Coruña, the need to budget the railway link of tip Langosteira, and the need to constitute the follow-up commission precisely provided for in the 2004 agreements to address the new future of the city in redefining the uses of the soils of the interior facade under a fundamental principle of irrevocable public ownership of all these lands. At the plenary session on 5 December, we asked the councillor — she answered the sea councillor on this issue — and we reminded her of how the Law of Ports of the State and the Merchant Navy itself established free transfer possibilities to the public administrations of the unaffected harbour land. And we asked the sea councillor in this case why large cities like Bilbao, like Valencia, like Barcelona or Amsterdam, or other cities like Genoa, have addressed internal harbour reorganisation processes with institutional collaboration formulas and why we cannot. The advisor announced us a protocol, and that protocol, by Mr Feijóo, arrived on April 18. And I would say that in an alarm of illustrated despotism, because it would seem that we could say "I'm going to do something, and all by the corrupt and the corrupt but without the corrupt and without the corrupt." Because it is really necessary that in the definition of the new inner port facade of the Coruña be the main actor, which is the Town Hall of the Coruña. Mr. Martín Fernández Prado, you are a concelerator in that plenary. And the Town Hall of Coruña must be the main actor in the redefinition of the interior harbour's soils. Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Minister of Development cannot come to the Crown and enter the back door. They have to come to the Coruña without crossing the Rubicón, they have to come to Maria Pita's municipal palace to define the future of the city. You can't enter the Coruña like an elephant in a cassette, you can't use Troy's horse technique. Let's review the 2004 conventions together and give the city a new chance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u173	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u174	The follow-up commission of the 2004 conventions is hereby established. We bet on a consortium formula that leads the project to the city, we don't use electoralism on this question of the future of the Crown. Whoever wants to capitalize this will be punished, we play too much in the Coruña, we play the future. Let's be smart and not waste this great opportunity to promote a new city project that illusions everyone, as other smart cities did. And the Coruña is and has always been a smart city.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u175	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u176	What I don't know is if the politicians are in touch with the circumstances. Yesterday, the Socialist Municipal Group presented, as you know, a motion, which achieved unanimous support in the municipal plenary, in order to set up the committee to follow up the agreements to talk among all of us about how to bring forward the reorganisation of the soils of the interior port.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u177	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u178	It may not be that Mr. Feijóo accompanied by the Minister of Development comes and takes the Crown on his own. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u179	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u180	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Allow me, Mr. Sánchez, to begin with a high-ranking appointment of the Tide. Well it's true that this high position of the Tide was dismissed from the Town Hall being low, but I think it synthesized very well in a sentence the explanation of the work of the Tide of July Ferrier and his government on this topic of the port: "Bla, bla, bla...". High charge of the Tide, signer and founder. [[Applause]] This same high office the other day also said, "As if we forget things about the Tide!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And he said, "When we spoke before, the other day, of coastal weaving..."—also weaving network of friends, as Errejón explained. And he said the other day that he was less than 1% of the population of the Coruña, 99% stayed out — far enough to be 99%. He said, "We said before we were going to rule for 99%, and now we rule only for the minority of friends; there were higher tide charges than citizens of the Crown." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, I think with this "bla, blah, blah" -- what the founder of the Tide of the Crown -- they said they wanted to create a parallel reality to see if so, so many times, people believe it. But it's a lie and I'm going to leave the things pretty clear to see if... First, this protocol follows what was approved by the Full Coruña, which asked to avoid the push of the Solana, Battery and Calvo Sotelo. He's meeting a demand from the full Crown. Second, Mr. Rivas, Solana stays the way she is, she's not playing. And Battery and Calvo Sotelo are filled, they've never been from the city. In any case, they're always porters. It focuses only on the property, the protocol speaks of ownership, to ensure that it is a public property, because it is in co-ownership with the Union, which remains with 51%. And he doesn't speak for anything about use or urban management or any competition from the Town Hall of Coruña. That's why we vote in favour when we talk about changing the conventions. In any case, there's no mention of uses or any competition from the Town Hall. And on the other hand, what was signed is a protocol and an agreement is annexed. And the doors are opened and one is invited from the minute - because this has not yet begun until the agreement is signed - to participate in the Council and the Deputy. It's not closed, it's not left out, it's not put in any municipal competition. It's about property, ensuring it's a public property. That's what this protocol does. Besides, he has held his hand so that everyone who wants to be involved. What happens is that there are two models: one is of "bla, blah, blah" — as the founder of the Tide well said — and another is of work and 20 million euros above the table. Because, of course, the Town Hall must be the only mayor and county in the world who, when a president wants to invest 20 million in his city, opposes. Not asking for anything in return, and to make sure some land is public. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Minto, the mayor of the Coruña is opposed not to 20, but to 40; also to the 10th intermodal, to the 5th public housing of the Ofimatica, and to the other 5th of the health center of Santa Lucia, everything! It is opposed because what needs to be created is that parallel reality that there is a confrontation, because that seems to work for the local political interests of the tide. But, look, 99% -- because we were talking about 99% -- of the city of Coruña are happy with this agreement because they understand it's a good deal. Why? Because he solves a problem that Ferreiro couldn't fix. And that's what hurts them, Feijó gets to fix a problem that you weren't able to fix. [[Applause]] But, look, what's on the table is an invitation to institutional collaboration. It's on the table for them to join, dialogue and participate, from the very beginning — that the convention is not yet signed. Incorporate to the agreement, propose something. The problem is it's just blah, blah, blah, but work and propose, nothing at all. In any case, they ask to amend, in point 2, the 2004 Conventions. It was very well explained by the PSOE spokesman. But if we were saying that this 2004 convention was signed by a socialist mayor and that the two-party government, PSOE and BNG, which initially approved it in 2009, the two-party government of the BNG and the PSOE! Of course, the BNG now don't want to know anything about those agreements they signed, that they worked. [[Murmurs.]] Why? Because those who signed them were in Cerna and now they're in the Marea, all three of them. But, of course, when the left one put it wasn't speculation. [[Murmurs.]] Now who inherits is who has to approve them. There was the document of the general plan for the final approval left by the Bipartite such that, no more than one square metre, such that the Bipartite left it and those who are now at the Marea, of Cerna, such that! Then, before it was speculation, not now. Look, I was talking about the cases of Bilbao and all of them. The other day he told them the mayor of Bilbao, the former mayor of Bilbao, in those invitations, "Look, what speculation if the surpluses are all public? In Bilbao we did 5,500, 5,500!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u181	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u182	Anyway, there are so many things they say, which is a shame, I'm half left. But it's a bunch of lies. Anyway, I want to end up alone. In point 1, call for an agreement that will bring 140 million euros of rail access to the external port to the city of Coruña, 140 million, without having to put the Harbour Authority a single euro, to bid in the first half of 2019, which will be there in the 2019 budgets. And they are asking us to cancel what we have all voted for in this Parliament, which is incongruity! Stop thinking about the tide and think about the city of Coruña. Tell the chief of staff what he wrote, what he feels, what he talks and what he talks about, because he's open, not starting yet, and not signing the agreement, so all the administrations that he wants are incorporated. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u183	Thank you. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u184	Well, I very much appreciate the support of the Socialist Party and the BNG for our proposal. As for the People's Party, high-ranking quotes I propose to them some songs from their party: "Luis se se forte," or some that happened when you were in the Government, when that of Pikachu... when they said, "Look at a little thing [...]. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u185	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u186	I don't know if I can talk... when I was talking about antidemocratic... I mean this. I don't know if...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u187	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u188	When it happened, when you were in the government, when you were in the government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u189	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u190	...with Pikachu, there were really good dates. What happens is that the Atlantic tide has arrived precisely to end its rot and to throw them out. You don't realize that a candidacy without the means that you have and without the power that you have has has has has barred them from the map. [[Applause]] Therefore, Mr. Fernández Prado, intends to justify the unjustifiable. I mean, the People's Party has always been in favor of the ball, it's always been in favor of speculation, it's always been in favor of privatizing the public. And Mrs. Bea Mato voted in favour of selling Solana on the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority, where she was charging juicy diets. And you approved a general municipal management plan that consolidated speculation on port lands. And you lied here in a number of questions. The signed protocol endorses the agreements, agreements that say that in the San Diego area — 80 percent of the land in the port of the Coruña, 344,000 square meters — will build 4,000 dwellings up to nine altitudes, and you have approved that general plan of municipal management. You say here they activate the tracking commission, and you never proposed the activation of the tracking commission. You're saying that Feijóo came to solve the problem, when the People's Party was in favor of privatizing the land a year ago, and now he's come to the stage to campaign for Mrs. Bea Mato. And you're going to have to re-correct because they have citizenship against this, absolutely. They're gonna have to go back to rectification. And you're still going to sign a protocol saying it's the solution, disregarding who really changed things, who passed the model of the ballast that you supported the model of public ownership. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was the struggle of the people, of citizenship and of the democratic government of the Crown and not Mr Feijóo. And Mr. Feijóo still on top comes to say that in 80 percent of these land, 4,000 homes are built. That's the reality you've tried to justify. And you came here to lie. The protocol does not approve of any of the EUR 140 million in rail connection. The ad... how many times are you going to make that ad?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u191	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u192	Furthermore, the public financing of the railway connection to the external port was in Marea, not the People's Party. So now it's clear what role you're going to play here. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u193	Quiet. Quiet, Mr. Martín, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u194	So they're going to have to rectify it once more. If you wanted to privatise Solana a year ago — and Mrs Bea Mato voted in favour — you will now have to rectify it. And the Town Hall of Coruña will have to lead the democratic process of design of the port lands, as much as it costs them. [[Murmurs.]] Laugh, laugh what you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u196	Laugh what you want. His position was infamous, shameful. You're used to doing things like that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u197	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u198	Go to Junta, who has no competence, tell the krunis and the krunis...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u199	Quiet, quiet! Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u200	...what is the future of those lands? You're still at the same point. It was the councillor of urbanism that approved the change of the public's staffing to the private's staffing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u201	Thank you, thank you, sir...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u202	That you also have a past, Mr. Fernández Prado. Rectify, that's when they're right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u203	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u204	Rectify, that's when they're right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u205	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u206	I told you. Among other things, I have to protect whoever is in the use of the word, and that I ask for for for everyone. And, by the way... [[Mr Sánchez García addresses Mr President and speaks words which are not perceived.]] Well, I'm told that in the morning you also spoke... I ask you all to cooperate. We're going to clarify what happened before, because I've been brought here and this is good. The exact phrase is: "The People's Party which cannot hide its antidemocratic nature." [[Murmurs.]] Do you take this off or don't you take it off? Call the order. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me, call... No, no, of course. [[Strong murmurers.]] Silence! [[Strong murmurers.]] Call the order. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have a call to order. We're still on the agenda. Now we move to the fourth point, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the environmental impact of waste water from mining
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u207	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u208	To formulate the motion, Mr. Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u209	Yes, Mr. President, doing what Mr. Feijóo has done and the Minister for Development in the Coruña is deeply antidemocratic, and I will say it as often as necessary. And he's cacical too, he's cacical. [[Murmurs.]] Call me in order, too, if you like, by calling the Cacicily to that People's Party course that we know well in this country. My friends and friends, that's the way to proceed with the People's Party. Yes, sir, yes, sir! [[Protests.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] Please check if you stop listening, see if you stop listening. Let's see if you can stop listening at once, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u210	Quiet, quiet! Quiet, please. Mrs. Santos and Mr. Trenor... Otherwise, the usual one, we suspended the full and everything we had to do today will come to an end and it's no use at all. Quiet, please. Mr. Sánchez is in use of the word. He'll be compensated in his time. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u211	Well, I don't know if that's what I'm saying or CIS, but it won't even talk here. Well, we're also going to talk about the nature of this popular government, which has in some of its areas clear examples of what it always stands for. We're talking about mining, we're talking about the Directorate-General for Energy and Mines, we're talking about the economic and industry advisor, and we're talking about the absolute lack of control over the pollution produced in mining in this country in recent years, about total impunity for pollution caused by several of the farms in this country. In the inquiry I myself presented, the councillor was unable to explain what happened in recent years in Touro, in San Fins, or in Santa Comba, in Varilongo, or in Monte Neme, where, despite the obvious impacts caused by mining activity and the non-restorey of farms at the end, the Greek administration did not act to control and punish what was needed. Mr. Counsellor had the opportunity to explain case by case and even to quote the sanctioning files applied by the Board in each of these places, if there were them. But as it is true that there are no such sanctioning dossiers, and the fact is that in San Fins, in Touro, etc., the streams in these areas have been contaminated for years and have not acted against this contamination, it has had to try to divert attention by trying to tackle the debate. He looked to the other side of the Galician Union whenever these contaminant spills were produced to the regattas, as well attests to the writing of the Prosecutor's Office transferred to the Noia trial, or how well they testify to other complaints of collectives who are doing a work that this Council should do, this Council of Galicia, and who does not. Last Thursday I accompanied, along with my colleagues Julio Torrado of the PSOE, and Montse Prado of the BNG, the collectives of the Platform for Defence of the Arousa River to the Valadora building of the people to talk to the valedora to ask for help in the lack of information, in the face of this government's obstruction of access to free information from these collectives, who have been asking for information about a project developed in Touro for forty years that has been affecting the environment, and worried about what can affect their lives, people who are engaged in productive sectors, people who work in a river that does more work, only in the marijuana sector, than the entire mining sector in the country. They were concerned about the impacts of a mining exploitation that has no parallel in this country, which is projected in Touro, with an unknown dimension and with obviously unknown impacts. What is known is what happened in a much smaller mining operation than what is projected and what the public administration has done; that is, nothing. Come with concern to this megaproject and ask for information. And the General Directorate of Energy and Mines doesn't even answer, once again. It is unfortunately the modus operandi of the Galician Council and the general direction of Mr. Tahoces in the mining sector that is obstructing the actions of the collectives who want to know the truth of the actions of these miners, as attests to the shameful judgment of the High Court of Justice of Galicia, which gave reason to the neighbours and neighbours of Corcoesto five years later. They had to reach the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia to give them the reason for access to information, for access to reports that also affected Corcoesto's project. They should fall in shame. Just like when some people have to go to the UN to ask for support: "The UN admits to processing a complaint about impeding access to information on mining projects." The Ombudsman, in Madrid, has also warned of this obstruction of access to information and the lack of information that he transfers to the Galician Union about the slates in Valdeorras, etc. This Galician board modus operandi is no coincidence. For the business to work as these multinationals want it to work, there must be and are necessary the following elements: subsidies, opacity and outsourcing of environmental costs. Externalization of environmental costs that cannot be achieved if there is a public administration to comply with legislation. It's only possible when there are governments that are conviving with these companies that look elsewhere. That's why I say it's no coincidence what the Galician Union is doing looking elsewhere and with that passivity. It was, over these years, one who didn't want to see, one who let go and obstruct the work of those associations. And now they tell us that Touro will scrupulously comply with the law and that there will be no impact. Both Junta and the company say that everything will be perfect there and that everything will be done. But the past tells us totally the opposite. What left the exploitation after 1988 was the pollution and passivity of the Union, it was the pollution and non-restorement of mining. It's not restored. Even the streams are contaminated by acid drainages and heavy metals from that unrestored exploitation. And what they're not the sanctioning files, the files you couldn't quote here the advisor. Besides, they want to convince us that this company, which also has a past -- they have a past in Africa -- has a past in Andalusia, in Riotinto -- of non-compliance and environmental aggression, will arrive here in Galicia, with a consistent administration, and will behave civilly. That's impossible, that's impossible. It is a squilming model of the territory of multinational pirates that are perfectly designed to extract as much benefit as possible as possible and to leave here the environmental liability for years and years; issues that we will have to pay both Welsh and Welsh, well with public budgets, well with our health and our environment. It's always like this. So far there has never been any project of this dimension and therefore we can't check it out, but in smaller projects, such as Varilongo, San Fins, Touro or Monte Neme, it's always been that way. The company has a sufficiently complex plot so that then no public administration can tie it up when it has to force them to restore, and much more so when the Galician Union has never even urged these companies to restore these holdings. That's the reality. And with that reality, the People's Party came a few months ago to tell us that the solution to this country's economy was the law of predation. The law of depredation in mining is more easy for businesses and less easy for people to defend themselves, for public participation, more agility in renewal and the granting of mine rights and less public participation. That is the law of depredation, creating companies of first and second companies, these multinationals that will not have administrative obstacles, which is called — euphemistically — environmental guarantees and public participation. And, on the other hand, small and medium-sized enterprises in this country that work in these productive sectors still have the same bureaucratic and administrative obstacles. A sort of company is created for which everything is possible, for which there is no control. And this is the law of depredation. In this reality of the mining sector in Galicia, what we don't need is the law of depredation. Instead, more control, more rigour in control, greater added value, better do things, all that's not said in the law of depredation. Therefore, in this motion we also ask—shrink the sun, of course, because the People's Party will not come the divine inspiration today—...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u212	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u213	...the derogation from the law of depredation and we also say "no" to the Touro mining project, we say "no." And we tell the People's Party and the Government of the Union to rectify and clear responsibility for those who have been working for these companies for years, have been tolerant of pollution and have been obstructing the work of people, citizens doing the work that a decent government should do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u214	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u215	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. We're talking about mining. Mining generates waste and, speaking of waste, in this case not miners but political ones, I remember a short time ago someone told me that he had respected the presumption of innocence, speaking of the Gürtel case and speaking of the former secretary of organization of the People's Party of Galicia and member of the Board of Directors of Galicia until 2005, in which Mr. Feijóo stopped being Vice-President, with Mr. Fraga Iribarne. Now, as there is a firm ruling by the Supreme, I believe that I can no longer respect or continue to respect the presumption of innocence, but everything seems to indicate that in fact in the first sentence of the Gürtel case because that high head of the People's Party of Galicia had something to do with it. I was looking at who told me very angry that I had respected the presumption of innocence. [[Applause]] The truth is that I said, whenever they intervene, speaking of mining, and specifically of the Touro-O Pino project, that the Socialist Party was not willing to make a general cause against mining and that it was essential to defend from the administration the legitimacy of mining as a more economic sector. But it is true that it is essential that this defence should always be accompanied by the scrupulous observance of the law, something which can be obvious—anything can say that it is obvious that the law must be complied with. Seeing the situation of the former Touro-O-Pino mine, anyone understands exactly what I'm trying to talk about. Whoever does the most damage to mining is neither the radical left nor the moderate left, nor any other left, as the economic and industry advisor pointed out in the question, but it's politics, governments that forget the correction and the need to comply with the law in mining and the environmental responsibility of mining. The one who has done the most damage to the project and is doing the Bullo-O Pino mining project, beyond the legitimate opposition of a part of society, is to all those citizens who see exactly what the environmental situation that exists at that time in that mine concession space. The day of the interrogation, despite the vehement attempts — almost always — to get the counsellor to look at the photographs he was teaching him — is the fact that the almost Franciscan temperament of the counsellor was enviable; I recognize that merit — because I do not know whether to do the same with the Members of the People's Party. I think that, more useful than teaching the photographs, it's really a visit to the area, a visit to the Bama cut area fundamentally and to the mud rafts, literally black muds -- it's not that they're dark, they're black, exactly like water, that they stay there and that the neighbors have been watching for decades and seeing that, indeed, nobody has done anything to control those residual waters. Why hasn't Junta been acting all this time? Because there were resources, resources that in many cases were not executed. Looking back the other day at the European funds of 2017, there were concrete games for the restoration of degraded spaces. I think it is absolutely indisputable that this would be a perfect case of degraded space in which, when going to see the budgetary execution of that game that should lead an autonomic co-financing, it was literally zero, zero, all the sheet (i.e., vigant credit, retention, authorized expenditure, credit balance, etc., etc.), absolutely zero; i.e., absolute incompetence. I don't know if in this case it's also multi-annual, because it can also be, but in any case, the Union's share of multi-annuality corresponding to 2017 is absolutely zero. There are also questions that the citizens themselves and the neighbors of the various abandoned facilities — we think of Monte Neme and that failed attempt to promote tourism, but we think of it all in the case of Touro-O Pino — surprisingly see the lack of relationship between the scale of the farms that are kept in that mining area and in theory the activity that is developed there, the size of the installation of the waste management that exists and something as simple as the number of trucks that enter that facility every day, every week or every month. Undoubtedly, since this is absolutely closed, in that the Administration does not give any kind of information, mistrust and insecurity appear. And probably that project is manifestly better, but it's also perfectly understandable that citizens in that area understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u216	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u217	...—I will conclude, Mr President—that, without a doubt, we must ensure that the autonomous administration commits itself to the restoration of the environment. I just wanted to read an expression of the memory of the budgets, because I think it's illustrative of what the disconnection of the reality of the Council of Galicia means. On the subject of water treatment and waste it says that we are in the European leadership. I insist: go to the Town Hall of Touro, to the parish of Bama, and see exactly what it takes from there about thirty, twenty-five years ago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u218	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u219	That is why we are going to support the first four points, if we are allowed to vote by points. We tabled an amendment to the fifth point, an amendment which has already been tabled on other occasions in this Parliament, and we would support the first four points if we were allowed to vote separately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u220	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The quality of the environment, environmental care and the effectiveness of legislation are a great deal of the degree of modernity of a country. Ours is completely touched by the wing. I never had any idea, before I came around here, how this was. I just saw the difference between that fine that was thrown into him, that was made effective to a farmer who was opening a stream by the river and throwing some mud into the river and what was not done to the one who was throwing whole streams of purin or other stronger spills. But, of course, as it was said here, if you go to Bama and take a look at those rubbles, you realize that some are immensely green by the technosols that are thrown over them to make that green, but, if you look under those hillsides, you see black water rafts, white water, jurus water, all kinds of water that you see directly to the Brandelos River, directly, directly. And — which we know — there are no analyses or concerns about it. But if you stay inside the mine, which has a huge territory, you can realize that these muds — said Mr. Abel — are not only from the mine, but come from a thousand varied sites, which enter every day, before weighing and before paying. There's ashes, there's mussel shell, there's all that's shit — with forgiveness; it's the only word that can be used. But, of course, if you go to San Fins and ask who the five-hectare mining raft is, in Galician waters, you answer that you don't know who it is, and we've been asking who it is for more than a year. Ah! No one knows who he is, not even Catastro. Why? Because it's a raft that's been accumulating mining sludge for many years. Since the last time he blew up in the sixties and peaked and seized everything he took through his course below, from that nobody knows who he is, and the mine is licensed and has company that is working on it. But, under the mine of San Fins, there is the laugh of the girl, curiously, another laugh, with the banks of Berberetto possibly—disputable, with other laughs—of the best in Europe. And there he is, and nothing happens. And when someone, when some environmental activist gets into the river bed, takes out samples, it's reported by the company, because it can't walk: that river's not public, it's from the company. And it's okay here, it's okay here. Because all those remains of already exhausted mining facilities are used to refill the Sogama way with all kinds of mixed shit, because it doesn't even separate, and one can find in any vessel from any of this country's quarry—that is yes, managed by a waste management company—of everything (plastics, sugars, remains of the Prestige...), or you can go see a river, as I went the other day to see a river in the Somozas, the Mera River, which leads to Ortigueira, and, curiously, Ortigueira drinks water from that river. I found — I was sure to see another place where the zudre came from — another place, a beautiful white milk boiling, which was pure sugar and no sugar from the beef installations, which came down the dog, and nothing happened, nothing. I suppose this time you will, you will go ahead, because I called 112, I did identify myself, so the report would go ahead. And that's the way it is, and nothing happens here. Why? Because there is a tacit agreement in this country, between administration and businesses, that environmental laws are about to be skipped, because they are too strict. And they're so strict that in a stretch of the highway -- which is very dear to me, because it crosses my tribe -- were used engravings of the Touro mine, composed of copper, iron and sulphur, that they keep reacting, and there's no Christian who paints that stretch of the highway. But it's okay, because it can happen within twenty or thirty years like the lindane, so nothing happened. There is no environmental caution in this country. We have a very low environmental culture, and it's not the people's fault, it's the government's fault, it's not the batteries, and it's time I put them! That's why the BNG will support this initiative, as it does! Why? Because it's urgent, it's necessary, and you had to be supported, to heal yourself in health, because the times are coming when the population that is in school today is going to restrict the history of this country, this time, and you're going to have to ask for forgiveness, and you'll have to ask for it when there are victims and when the harshness of mobilization for life is unstoppable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u222	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u223	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, you told us if we were nervous. I've seen you since then very agitated. But nerves would have to be you saw a headline a few minutes ago: "At Marea, training with less fidelity to vote according to the CIS. It also occupies the red lighthouse in memory of vote and sympathy." So you also assume that part of nervousness. Mr Sánchez, when we refer to a sector as important as mining, which depends on the work of 6,000 families, which accounts for 1.1% of GDP, which represents 8% of the total production of the state, I think it is appropriate not to approach it frivolously and irresponsibly, as you did. Yes, and I tell you with all roundness and responsibility, because you gave here to understand or wanted to understand that this was the law of the jungle, where everyone does what they want -- that is, as if they were The Tides, right? -- without any kind of control, even though you know that's not true. The counsellor in the inquiry explained, on a case-by-case basis, in detail, but to you, as we have seen all this time, they don't care about the information, they don't care about the answers. You have your verdict and you're not going to change it at any time. Look, I'm beginning to tell you that there are no policies of tolerance with contaminant activity. Over the last 20 years, companies and administrations have worked together to try to reduce the environmental impact — in fact, nowadays the assets and restoration plans are mandatory — and they also have the commitment — that the counsel told them — to make a full review, as recommended by the Ombudsman. They say that Union has to commit itself and strictly apply legislation. All right. But then why did they vote against you the other day of a non-law proposition by our group in which we requested strict compliance with the law with all environmental guarantees in the Touro mine project? Because they don't care. You want the jelly, you're going to make the mess. They talk about lack of information and transparency. Look, what you wouldn't have to confuse is information and transparency with the administrative collapse that some, some organizations want. All documentation of the processing files is available to anyone who wants to consult it, some in digital format and another in paper format, presental, because, as you will understand, there are files with a large volume of information. Point 3, to develop political responsibilities. Look, that's what we've already left for you, who are experts, as we've seen in the last few days. The 4, to repeal the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Initiatives. Listen! But this law, which you have approved where you rule — in Valencia, for example — is going to collapse, a law that with total environmental assurance is allowing for agitating and implementing new projects, creating new jobs? You make reference to the people's valet. It seems to us very well that they respect institutions, we always do, even though they sometimes say things that we don't like. But look, today we saw a show with you. The other day at the commission they asked the valet to resign, it turns out that by leaving the Greeks who don't charge Venezuela's pension, or a year ago you were asked to resign because the valet recommended to the Town Hall of Santiago that you have to put on active policies for people without a roof. So you're clear: will you use the people's valet for what you're interested in? That's right, let's hope the people's valet gives her the reason, because, if not, she's obviously upset. Look, about the settlement of the Touro mine, Mr. Sánchez, I ask you: On what basis? It's all a contradiction. In other words, in point 1 they demand strict compliance with the law and in this they want the Government to prevarice, violating the 2008 Mining Law and rejecting a project without studying it or processing it. Let's see if we're clear: do you want to imply that if they were ruling, they would impose the meaning of reports on technicians? Don't you trust public workers, their qualifications, their professionalism and independence? Would they deny a project because they don't like it or don't match their ideology? Would they really do that? Do you know how that procedure is known, Mr. Sánchez? Autoritarianism, totalitarianism or — perhaps — dictatorship? If you want to talk seriously about the slate in Valdeorras, let's talk about it. 45 companies, 2,400 jobs, by the way, of which 25% are women. I don't know if they knew that the crisis caused 1,200 jobs to be lost, but it's still the most important economic engine and the main source of employment. Suppose you wouldn't forget it. Your Honor, the vast majority of industries started their activity in the 1960s and 1970s, with a very different environmental legislation and awareness of our day, and that's why they made great efforts signing protocols and environmental pacts, also with great performances, such as environmental recovery in the Sil basin over six kilometers, eliminating rubble in the Trigal area, The Castaneiro, etc. Different studies have been approved or a recent biodiversity promotion project compatible with mining on slate farms. Do you know that they intend to re-adapt 50,000 square meters of surface, with a budget of 100,000? No, he doesn't know, because he doesn't ask, because he's not interested in the answer; he comes here to say the usual one. Look, while this is done in the sector, the Board and the Hydrographic Confederation themselves have exercised their function of control, instigating numerous sanctioning files. But look, don't confuse yourself. What doesn't exist here are policies of persecution until the drowning of the sector, as you want. Do you know what your group did to support the slate? Four letters: nothing. I'll remind you of a few. In his previous legislation, Mrs. Yolanda Díaz — and so on in the Journal of Sessions — came to insult the entrepreneurs of the slate, claiming they acted like the mob. You also wanted to apply new taxes to the luxury industries, despite the difficulties they were experiencing. Last year they brought a PNL requesting to declare Pena Trevinca as a natural park...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u224	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u225	...without consulting the municipalities or the neighbours, or entities, which would mean the disappearance of the pizarre industries and thousands of people would lose their jobs. And, above all, you, those of progress, are against the construction project of the A-76 highway, which I assumed for the drive of the economy in the district of Valdeorras. But what about the Tides of We Can with Valdeorras?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u226	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u227	It's over, Mr. President. I believe that if we make a deep, serious and rigorous reflection, Mr Sánchez, we have to answer this question: do we want to take advantage of the indigenous resources that Galicia has and count on a more modern, sustainable and competitive mining sector? Our group, the People's Group, says yes; The Tides say no; the BNG says no when not ruling; and the PSOE depends: amends, and from abstention, I shoot because it touches me. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u228	Thank you, Mr. Blanco. Author group of the motion, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u229	Well, he didn't answer the counsellor and he didn't answer Mr. Blanco Paradelo. They'd rather talk about other things than answer. They were very easy to keep my mouth shut, Mr. Blanco Paradelo. I could get my sanctioning files out here in San Fins, in Touro, in Monte Neme, etc., but there are no them! In forty years neither one against pollution, only lately when he denounced the neighborhood. Not a file, when there are photos and analytics that say the rivers are contaminated with acid drainage. This is the situation. [[Mr. Sánchez García shows a document.]] And not a record of the Galician Union, neither in San Fins nor in Varilongo, nor in Monte Neme, nor in Touro. This is not a general cause against mining, it's a general cause against your administration, which allows this. Or should the wealth of mining be based on environmental damage or mortgage the future? Or is it going to be a third-world activity and not a quest to improve the process of extraction and quality of the product, as is done in other European countries, such as France? Walking there and not walking towards the third world, as you intend, expanding on an activity with a huge impact, that you never calculate the negative impacts of job destruction, in tourism, in the gainful activity, in forestry, all that you sell and sacrifice for the sake of a company based in Cyprus and with a black past in Africa and Andalusia come to profit for twelve years and then leave us environmental liabilities for generations and generations, as you have already left, as Mr Rivas said, in San Fins, two rafts that we will have to pay for your restoration with public money, thanks to your complicity. Never, as the Prosecutor's Office has said, has Mr. Tahoces urged to restore the bandages of San Fins. And they don't insist, they don't control, they don't sanction, because you're sold to these companies. Only from that explanation can you understand his convivent actions. So don't confuse yourself here. We are in favour of the productive economy, of course! We're in favour of creating wealth, but not for some -- a few -- to gain the cost of leaving us mortgages to others, which is what you're doing. You're doing that with the law of depredation, you're opting for that model -- a model that I define as the Katanga model -- in mining. I mean, here's what's needed, analyzing the general context of mining in this country, instead of opting for what anyone would say: looking for general interest and common sense, which is to improve extraction processes, reducing environmental impacts, increasing rigour, increasing control, improving public participation, you're quite the opposite: making it easy for these companies that create little employment, little wealth and that also leave a huge impact. You're still on that subject. You meant why I opposed or urged them to oppose. We talk about strict compliance with the law, because you don't comply with the law, you don't apply the laws. And of course — I don't know if I could take care of Mr. Blanco Paradelo for a moment — that there are political decisions. We don't want this mining model in this country, we don't want it. We don't want Corcoesto and we don't want Touro, we don't want Touro. And, of course, it's a political decision. You guys, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u230	Thank you. About the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u231	We accept the vote on points they request.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u232	The four? Thank you. We moved on to the next motion. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia in relation to the budget for 2018 for the prevention of school dropout
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u233	There are no amendments. To formulate the motion, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u234	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. The motion that our parliamentary group defends today is a consequence, like all of them, of an interpellation that I made to the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order at the plenary session two weeks ago, an interpellation that — not that I was much surprised at — left me much more uncertainty than certainty, much more restlessness than tranquility. Because we're talking about a programme in the budgets of the Education Council, the 423B programme, which refers to the prevention of dropout and which, as we all know, seeks to address the need for modern society, such as Galicia, to increase the number of post-war graduates, in order to have an increasingly and better trained citizenship. To that end, the programme itself provides for nine strategic lines, which are nothing more and nothing less than encouraging the participation of educational centres in the call for programme contracts — since we have often heard of their kindness, which is obviously not a bad instrument, or much less — to promote actions in the field of educational guidance that establish lines of reinforcement necessary to reverse school failure, to develop support and educational reinforcement measures — we call the House's attention to this point, this strategic line, the third one — the training of teachers, to promote support measures in instrumental and language areas, to improve school coexistence, to support municipalities and non-profit associations that carry out activities related to the prevention of school drop-out and to take measures for the evaluation of learning that is acquired in non-formal contexts, i.e. to understand us all colloquially, beyond the overall retrained educational system. What happened to the 2017 budget, which was, after all, the audit of the 2017 budget execution, which gave rise to our inquiry? For it simply happened that an initial budget of EUR 19.8 million — that is, almost EUR 20 million — went to a final budget of EUR 13 million and a half. Therefore, a decrease of €6.3 million was achieved during 2017, which evidently meant a reduction of 32%. What have you been reduced to? According to the counsellor, at the plenary session two weeks ago, in the ordinary budget management, which, as any administration does, undergoes several changes throughout the budget. And I'd be grateful if you didn't remind me, by necessity, that an budget is a forecast of income and expenses made. We know I'm a forecast. The problem is when the forecast manifests itself as wrong as what was done with this program. Look, Mr. Counsellor said they were mostly credit transfers due to staff costs. If you take the trouble — as I am sure you would do any Member of this Parliament — to check the budgetary changes that were made in 2017, which are available to all of us and to all of the citizenry, according to the Transparency Act, you could check how on September 13, 2017, a credit transfer of 145,000 euros —145,200 to be exact — is not an amount to scare anyone. But, in any case, this transfer, which is taken away from the start of teacher training in school success programmes, is carried out in order to meet such regular expenditure, in the sense of predictability and habitual, such as the operating costs of teaching centres; a strategy that is, of course, quite common in the Galician Union, that is to say, divert from other concepts to meet ordinary expenses. If this example had been little — which I said was not a relevant amount — on October 25, 2017, another credit transfer between splits was signed and nothing more and nothing less than 2.6 million euros from the School Failure Prevention Program to meet substitutes for teaching staff, i.e. a chapter also ordinary. What should be expanded according to needs? Yeah, we all know that. But €2,600,000 is diminished that day. We all know that measurements that are rarely taken are harmless; they have results, they have consequences, more or less serious. The problem with reducing the amount planned for school failure prevention expenditure at the beginning of the 2017 course is that the report by the Valator of the People — which was discussed this morning in this Parliament — says, with regard to the matter that concerns us, that this year — and I told the Counsellor — that is, 2017, we continue to receive complaints in which we have checked — and I insist and insist that it is the Valedoria of the People that you said you have checked it — that students are either deprived or greatly late for educational support to which they have rights, either in a specific period or throughout their entire schooling, because of their physical, psychological, sensory disability, etc., etc., etc. We're talking about conditions where the student needs certain educational reinforcements. And where or basically are the money that is needed to meet that need? In this programme, in programme 423B, which has been reduced — I repeat — by 32% in 2017. We're going to assume there was an error in the budgeting of this program, which was over-budgeted, that that error allowed you to meet other needs. That could be the case. Even the most responsible administration — from which is the paradigm of all that is governed by the People's Party — can make a mistake. But if there was a mistake and there were enough of these 13 million and a half euros, it turns out to us extraordinarily surprising that by 2018 they are planning 23, i.e. twice what was spent in 2017. This has only two explanations for us: either in 2017, needs have been ignored or in 2018, there is again an excess of budget that is justified only if the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order wants to have a wild departure from advertising. I mean, we budget 24 million euros for school reinforcement programs in an autonomous community where school failure is already below the average of the state, which is true, or we have an oversized game just to advertise, when we know that throughout the course we are going to cover other needs of other budget games without having a big problem. And, therefore, what we are asking for in this motion is that this Parliament approve the call for the Galician Union to implement all the initial budget for the activities planned for that programme without any reduction in credit, which we hope will take over from this plenary. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u235	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u236	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Go ahead, Mr. Álvarez, that from the BNG we will support the resolution of the motion. In addition, it would be difficult not to do so in the light of the text proposed in it, which in the end and after all is that this whole program intended or directed to the prevention of school drop-out and which, in addition, is done without any kind of reduction in its credit. You were referring precisely to that 32% cut. I insist: go ahead and we will support this motion. But we, from the BNG, wanted to focus the debate from another perspective. And we wanted to focus more on those issues precisely on which that budget departure is headed, that program and those funds that are intended to curb, palliate, reduce that dropout. And precisely recently the early school dropout data, which paradoxically, at the beginning of 2018, what they record is a breakdown of the trend that has been building up in recent years, according to IGE, INE and the survey of active population -- as we were talking about sources in the morning -- all sources match. If last year what we had was the lowest peak in early school dropout that had been recorded since this data was documented, we had the lowest recorded in history, at 14%, exactly 13.9%, paradoxically at the beginning of 2018 what that IGE, that INE and that active population survey say we were 16%. After registering the lowest digit since there are logs, 2 points have been increased over the previous period. And the most worrying thing we've seen since the Nationalist Block Galego is that break, that break, that trend shift in relation to the data that has been registered since 2012, 2013, 2014 and so on, until 2018. And that must give rise to a reflection beyond the budgetary issue, beyond the credit transfers, beyond that cut of the originally budgeted game at 32%. We deserve, at least, a collective reflection within this House and we will try to assess exactly what is the cause of breaking this trend and seeing ourselves with 2 points in addition to those recorded in 2017, — I insist — referring to the figures of early dropout. And in this sense, we need to take into account an educational part, an educational aspect, the functioning of, among other things, of that basic vocational training. And it is also quite true — and indeed, since the BNG we have already undertaken initiatives in this direction — that it would carry out an analysis of the results, not only as usual offered by the Ministry of Education and the Education Council itself in relation to the increase of students enrolled and enrolled in this basic vocational training, but also in the results, the degree of success or failure of these training programmes. I don't ask questions — and that's why, among other things, we've also recorded questions for the answer of the counselor himself — we haven't found any evidence of the success or failure of this basic vocational training in our country. But it is true that it has recently been published — specifically last year, in 2017 — a study — moreover, signed by three researchers at the University of Santiago de Compostela — which is entitled — it is available on the network — Basic vocational training, alternative to school dropout, because it was thought, was designed also with a clear objective of shortening this school dropout, in which an analysis is made, a study of all the data corresponding to the Spanish State and also our country. And what we see is that there's a percentage of abandonment in relation to the first course with the second course of more than 48%. We lost 48% of the students enrolled in the first basic vocational training course and then did not cover the set of two years of training, and therefore they either leave or leave uncompulsory education before they completed their training. We also believe that it would be important — I say — with these early-educational dropout data that shows us a breakdown in the downward trend and that it would be necessary to make an assessment and diagnosis of how that star measure works against school dropout that was at the time of basic vocational training, and also to take into account that this macroeconomic picture of what was being talked about in the morning, that there is a need to overcome the economic crisis and that there are improvements in the conditions also in the field of work, will also directly revert to the rates of early educational dropout. Because we are aware that precisely this drop also had a lot to do with the lack of job and professional expectations for youth, which remained longer within the education system. I insist that we support it — it would be absurd not to do so which is proposed in the resolution — but we also ask for a more in-depth analysis, when we talk about early school dropout, of which causes are the causes and, above all, what measures are trying to stem that abandonment, which, as we see, is breaking down the trend. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u238	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. In Marea will certainly support the PSdeG motion. We want the budget to be executed in full. We focus on three issues that we consider to be of utmost importance. The subject is quite accommodating and very worrisome. We play the future and quality, the future of many students and students, especially those who are in the most disadvantaged fringes, those who are most at risk of social exclusion. We look at three issues that we consider to be very important. One. When we are talking about strategic lines, which we consider as a priority — and there is from now on a practice of preventing early abandonment and absenteeism at school — that is what we mean by programme contracts. The programme contracts are important to tackle and prevent this abandonment. In program contracts, there's some curious data that makes us think a lot. They have six lines. The first is that we have known so far as PROA, which is a programme of accompaniment; the second is divided into three parts: it improves skills in mathematics, improves skills in languages and improves scientific and technological competences; the third is coexistence and promotion of equality; the fourth is prevention of early abandonment and improvement and prevention of absenteeism; the fifth, improvement and knowledge to achieve excellence; and the sixth line, and the last, improves the quality of management of centres. They'll take a surprise if they think about what centers and what demand is. What is the demand of the centers? Well, in the first line PROA there are 210 centers that are benefiting from these programs; in the second, 386; in the third, 230; in the fifth — I jump to the fourth, which is our responsibility — 210 centers; in the sixth, 169. Do you know how many centers are demanding and applying prevention programs? 31, 31 centers, nothing else (8 in Pontevedra, 3 in Coruña, 1 in Ourense and 8 in Lugo). This makes us wonder about a lot of questions. First. Uo30% more resources in this course? What other measures are being taken? How do the existing needs — which are many — be met? How can a better trained and quality citizenship be achieved? This is an important fact for reflection. There's a second aspect that was also addressed by the people who preceded me in the exhibitions, which is what refers to educational abandonment. Statistics on dropout are not a recent picture. They're related to the boys/races that were between 2008 and 2012, because the drop-out rate that's registered is among people who are now between 18 and 25 years of age. So, if someone deserved it, it would be the government, always so accused, of the Bipartite. That's for one part. On the other hand, it is obvious that it reflects the situation of the people who finished high school. On the other hand, we have the basic FP makeup. Basic vocational training titula and professional qualification programs weren't entitled, it's a way of makeup, yes. Yes, there's more title, but better training, no. The students who are in basic vocational training are pupils who have mostly walls ahead, because it's the most disadvantaged fringe. On the other hand, and to finish, this morning the advisor either got wrong or he's obviously misdirecting the data. Very boastful, very proud that we are the most equanimous community. Well, at the state level, yes. Galicia is the fifth community with a lower level of absenteeism, but it is made up; after Madrid, Navarre, Cantabria and Basque Country. But at European level, round lies. Do you know how many countries have a higher rate than we do in this sense, that they have more absenteeism? It's not to dance at the tip of the foot. Only two countries: Malta and Romania. What does that mean? That twenty-five countries in the European Union have less absenteeism and less school failure than we do, even though Spain is the third country and Galicia is the fourth if we separate from this. So, if it's good to spend all the money — and it's all few — to improve this level, and of course to evaluate and properly diagnose. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. After listening to this motion by the Socialist Party and after the short time I've been in this House, in the Galician Parliament, in conclusion, I want to make a high-level reflection: I recognize that the Greeks are people with a lot of education, with a lot of culture and, above all, with a lot of intelligence and almost always choose the People's Party to rule, and, above all, that you do much better the opposition than it is to rule. [[Applause]] And to begin with the theme of the motion, to start in a smooth way, clearly say that this initiative runs counter to budgetary regulations, such as the Galician Financial and Budget Regime Act, which allows technical changes to ensure, for example, the payment of Chapter I, dedicated to staff costs in the service of the public sector. Mr. Álvarez, I'm very sorry, but I have to tell you that the public budget is an early financial estimate, usually annually, of government revenue and expenditure, necessary to meet the purposes of a determining program. But, on top of that, what was the budget for the Bipartite for school dropout, and what data did it achieve? It's important to go back a little bit. Criticizing for criticism is always easy, but one thing is preaching and another is giving wheat. You can criticize everything, but it's not all worth it. There may be the famous boomerang effect, which criticism goes towards what criticizes and not the critic. Let us be realistic: to question today the educational policy adopted by the Council of Culture in times when the results are so positive and so visible is frankly difficult, I would say a fear. We can disagree in the model, but we cannot question the important effort that the Council makes for a sustainable and quality teaching. In addition to promoting a good educational system that promotes equality in opportunities and equity, Galicia presents a defined model that involves the entire educational community. Mr Álvarez, I am aware — and I believe that all of us in this House know or understand, or should know — what the processing and execution of the budget is. Starting from this base and applying the precautionary accounting principle, I have to admit that it is surprising — I am very surprised — that they use to question regular and technical budgetary changes, in order to sow doubts and argue about the Council's commitment to the fight against school dropout. And in that context, the first thing I have to remind you is that when we inherit, one inherits the good and inherits the bad. And in this case, we cannot reject it. We inherited from the Bipartite a 25.8% drop-out rate in 2009—as to assume!—. But the educational policies put in place by today's Galician Union have allowed us to close 2017 — ladies and gentlemen, I ask them to attend to me — at a rate of 14.9%. What you see doesn't hide. It's the data we have, even though it weighs. [[Applause]] I know they don't like this data, and, as they say in Pontevedra, and in Pontevedra, there must be dew. Something we'll be doing right now in Galicia, downgrading educational neglect in more than 10 points. It's more than 3 points below the national average at this rate in 2017 and it's already reached the target set for Spain by the European Union by 2020, set at 15%. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us stop sowing doubts and disqualifying the educational policies of this government. The data recorded on the abandonment rate can be perceived by a common achievement of the Welsh education system, which must continue to work, together, for the sake of its improvement. And I'm telling you more: the level of execution of the Board's budget set up to 98.86 % and with 100% running games. We are convinced that in today's globalized world with constant changes, education needs to be waged to grow collectively and ensure greater well-being. Despite the good results, we must not fall into conformism and think it's all done. We mustn't be sleeping in the laurel. He left written, to finish, the humanist physician and philosopher Francisco Sánchez, also called the Skeptic, in his main work, Quod nihil scitur. He said: "I aspire to be read by the strong and judicious people, who are not used to swear on the words of no teacher, but to examine things by themselves, to commit with their own sword all matters, guided by meaning and reason." Well, our sense and reason recommend voting against your motion. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u241	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Pérez. Author of the motion, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u242	Thank you, President. Mrs. Rodil, Mrs. Cuña, I appreciate the support of their respective groups and will allow me to share, in addition, the fundamental and argumental lines of their interventions. Of course, basic vocational training would give for a full monographic — but of those who are like today and tomorrow, like today — to talk about what I put into the education system the inclusion of an educational modality designed, as you said perfectly, to increase the number of graduates, not so much, unfortunately, to increase the number of persons trained for the performance of a profession in the right wage and work conditions. So I thank, as I already said, your support and also, as Mrs. Cuña said, the very low level of success, as in other unfortunately programs. I think we said this in a sad way: to see the failure of certain policies that we consider a priori good for the education system, but that they do not achieve, for whatever reasons and that they should be studied, success around educational institutions. Mr. Rodríguez Pérez, I don't know what you're talking about if the people of Greece are cult and intelligent because they vote for the People's Party. Frankly, I think he's out of place. I understand you had to say it. I understand you're saying it, but I don't understand why you're saying it. Because this is not a political voting debate, it is a debate about a programme, about the execution of a programme. Anyway, you said that the Greeks are smart because they choose who governs them and choose the People's Party and sometimes it's even the People's Party that elects who governs in certain municipalities, it's not the inhabitants of these municipalities. But well... [[Applause]] Look, there's a time -- it's true -- to sow and another to pick up. You spoke of inheritance. We're going to talk about inheritance, we're going to talk about inheritance, and we're going to talk about data, neither IGE nor INE, but the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport, which all autonomous communities are forced to provide data. See, in 2005, school dropout, school failure, in Galicia was 22%. In Galicia, in 2009, it had actually climbed, as it had risen in the rest of Spain. By the way, autonomous communities like Madrid and Murcia had a percentage of school failure much higher than Galicia, but, after nine years of the People's Party's government, you only managed to reduce the differential with the rest of Spain to half of what the bad government bipartisan did. I'll give you the data whenever you want and we'll contrast them so you can see that not everything they tell you is true. I, however, deeply regret that we have become a debate on the intelligence of the Greek people and their link with the vote in the elections a debate on budgets and devote the money to preventing school dropout to that particular chapter, which, as has already been said enough, was a good lack of it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u243	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to improve public employment and working conditions in the autonomous public sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u244	Amendments have been tabled by the Bloc Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u245	To formulate the motion, Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u246	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. This motion is presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in order to implement the request made by this Member the other day to the Councillor for Business and Public Service on the improvement of the working and working conditions of the entire sector of self-employed public employment. The other day the councillor of Fairy, in the responses to the appeal, pointed out that since the Galician Union, what we are looking to be able to do once again to continue negotiating with the trade unions. That legal ability, so the news tells us, may be coming, but obviously there's no need for legal authorization to start a negotiation process. If that were the case, the minister himself could not have reached an agreement with the trade union organisations, in this case of UXT, the Workers' Commission and the CISF, but would have to wait, of course, for the necessary legal qualification. That is why we, in view of the subscription to that agreement last March, urged the Government of Greece precisely to initiate the negotiation process of all those issues which do not require legal authorization in the law of budgets, but rather that they need, within the field of autonomous competences, to initiate a negotiation process which can then, with the necessary legal coverage, have the corresponding effectiveness. Indeed, the agreements of both March of last year and especially March of this year 2018, between the Central Government — as I said — and the majority trade union organizations, really undergo a rectification, a derogation, we could say that tacitly or differently, of the measures that were adopted by the Government, in this case by the Government of Greece, in that emblematic and so often debated Law 1/2012, whose formal derogation we, of course, insistently request and will continue to request, because it is a legal instrument that, if it loses supervision, must be removed from the legal order. But today it's about looking forward, not looking at the past, though it must take into account what happened in the past, and recovering, even if it's not totally but partially, lost time. Today, on the basis of this motion, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is time to arrive in this House at agreements on public employment which, precisely, are trying to recover a lot of the quality lost in autonomic public services. So from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, when we used that interpellation, we collected six points that we believe are of the utmost importance for the recovery of the working conditions of self-employed public employees. And that is precisely why we are asking for the application and negotiation in these areas of labour conditions of the civil servants and of the self-employed public sector, not only of the General Self-Government, but of the set of entities that make up the self-government public sector, because it was precisely the agreements reached by the central government in this case and by the trade union organizations mentioned above. So, first of all, what seems absolutely necessary is to start talking, start negotiating, the fate of this additional percentage of the wage mass that the Government of Greece will be authorized to apply for the triennium 2018, 2019 and 2020, although the increase in maximums that can be reached by 2020 is 8.79%, — I insist, maximums — we will still be at seven percentage points of loss over the reduced average remuneration to public employees in Galicia in the period at least 2013-2016, but we still need to recover all that part to which the agreement covers. Secondly, something fundamental to the net job recovery is precisely to sit at the negotiating table and agree on those sectors where they can increase by 8 per cent additionally above that 100 per cent of the overall workforce replacement rate by 2018. Thirdly, and it is already a fundamental objective not only to create net employment, but also to create quality employment in the areas of public services in Galicia, to agree on that additional rate of stabilisation of temporary employment not only — as I said — for the general autonomous administration, but also for the set of entities that integrate the autonomic public sector. Fourthly, we also welcome the need to negotiate with the trade union organizations present in the General Bureau of Public Employees on the common ordinary day of all public administrations, which has been fixed since 2012 for thirty-seven and a half hours, even special days, well with an annual distribution of days according to the need for each function, task or sectoral scope, especially in view of the type of day or shift, night or particularly painful days. Fifthly, a theme which is obviously emblematic and has worked as very emblematic in these issues, but which really is punishing, precisely, certain situations in which workers — in this case public workers, but as any worker — may be in a situation of temporary disability, which is to agree precisely the remuneration in the situation of IT through pay supplements, either the provision of a general social security scheme or the provision of the various special civil servants' schemes, which allow up to 100 percent of the fixed remuneration prior to the start of the disability situation. And to promote, sixthly, in a determined way, equality plans, conciliation and co-responsibility plans in the set of autonomous public sector entities, even as it enables the agreement itself, by regulating a cumulative free-time exchange of up to 5% of the annual day to meet the needs of reconciliation for the care of older, disabled and minor children. These are all the aspects that the motion collects to implement that interpellation that we have made to the Councillor of Fairy, but ultimately to apply in the autonomic field the possibilities offered by the agreements signed by trade union organisations, in Madrid, but also in the autonomic field. We must remember how the institution of the People's Valedor itself, in the report delivered before this House this morning — and I reminded the Councillor of Fairy the other day — of the working conditions of the workers who serve in the autonomous public sector, considers it essential to conduct a good management of collective bargaining to enable them to bring together efforts and respect rights such as careers or employment and family reconciliation. Finally, what we are talking about is, as I said at the beginning of this brief intervention, to recover the working conditions of self-employed public employees, from about 100,000 public employees when we bring together the various entities that make up the public sector throughout the Autonomous Community of Galicia, but, ultimately, we are talking about regaining the quality of public services in health, education, justice and in all sectors that have suffered this crisis and this great recession. And as we also reminded the councillor about different interventions the other day, and I think I remember that this morning too, socialists are not in favour of a state of well-being at 38%. In this sense, the quality of public services requires public investment. It requires public expenditure in terms of GDP, which at least places us in the middle of the European Union. Spain is currently 42%. The goal presented by the Central Government to Brussels is to come down to almost 38%, when in the euro area we are 47% spending on GDP and in the EU of 28 out of 46%. As my colleague Losada said, we are not trying to look at ourselves with France, Finland, Denmark, Belgium, Austria, Switzerland or Italy, but we do not want to compare ourselves in terms of public expenditure on GDP with Poland, with the Czech Republic, even with the United Kingdom, with another way of carrying these policies forward. And I say it with all regard to these states, but our social model is the European social model, not the social model broken by the great recession. Nothing else. We hope to get the House's support for this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u247	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u248	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. BNG has an obvious discrepancy with this proposal. It seems to us that it is a People's Party trap initiative and that it also places the debate in the playing field, with the rules of play and even with the referee, who, as it could not be otherwise, is bought, as it happens in the Champions with the team of Mr. President, the referee is bought and therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u249	That's bigger words.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u250	I withdraw the words about football analogy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u251	We don't understand anything. There's a mess here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u252	He said in this agreement the referee is bought, as is also the case in football competitions. We think this agreement is a trap, it's an artimagina and a People's Party weapon for the negotiation of State budgets 2018. Furthermore, it is a negotiated agreement between bambalinas, without light and no tachographs, by the union dome, without any participation of workers and workers, without any consultation, it seems a funny concession from the Government. And it also seems serious to us because it lowers what demands and expectations the public service and its union representatives are supposed to have. In addition, it was done without the participation of administrations which have their own and exclusive competences in these matters. Thirdly, it is an agreement that is supposed to accept the right story about the crisis, the economic story, the political story, as well as the story about the exit of the crisis and the distribution of wealth: the boot for the bank and for the big companies and the distribution of the crumbs for the working class. Moreover, this agreement also seems very serious to us, and we disagree with the words of the spokesman of the Socialist Party, because we think it is essential to look back, to know what happened, to know the rights that took the working class to regain them, and not, of course, to accept it as an irreversible reality. This agreement is to put the counter to zero, make tabular the wage and labor rights taken away by the excuse of the crisis; it gives good, for example, the seizure of more than 25% of the public service's salary by different ways, beginning with the reduction of 5% — approved by Mr. Zapatero's stage —; the seizure of extra wages; wage freeze; the imposition of insolidary and unfair tax pressure measures; or the increases in the CPI that did not take place at the bottom of wages. All the legal reforms that have been implemented over the years, starting with the reform of article 135 of the Constitution, are also good, and all these reforms are still in force. Law 2/2012 is also in force, with budgetary stability and financial sustainability, and temporary public employment measures, which are 2012 and which do not disappear from these agreements that have just been tabled, are also in force. They were temporary, but it really seems they came to stay, and they also applied more rigorously and more sanctimoniously in Galicia with the Government of the People's Party. The current proposal brought us here therefore has many euvs, many traps, which we cannot support. First of all, it makes the spolium suffered by the public administration's personnel compulsive and irreversible. It foresees an increase that, if we take account of the data from the Banco de España, in fact, with the forecast of GDP growth and also of the increase in the IPC, will remain at less than 2%. This agreement also does not allow the removal of jobs by the excuse of the crisis; it does not end with precariousness and timeliness, but merely applies European judgments; and it also maintains the restrictive legislation on the rights of participation and collective bargaining. BNG has tabled amendments to this proposal. The first of these is to urge the Union to recover the paid and paid labour rights that have been eliminated in the field of the Civil Service, and to this end it proposes to open a negotiating table with the trade union organizations, with all the German trade union organisations; and, secondly, to request the Government of the State to waive the legal reforms that have imposed wage and labor cuts. Of course, we think -- as I said -- that we have to look back to turn right regression, and change the future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u253	Thank you, Mr Bará. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u254	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. As was said here, the Government of the State signed on 9 March with the unions Workers' Committees, UGT and CISF the second agreement to improve public employment and working conditions, and the first conclusion we draw is that the Socialist Party likes this agreement made by the state government with the unions. We like that the Socialist Party likes the agreement made by the Government of the People's Party with the unions, I think we should congratulate ourselves on that. And the second conclusion is that at last the Socialist Party realizes that the improvement of the conditions of public employees does not necessarily result in derogating from Law 1/2012, from temporary measures, as they insist on coming and coming to claim, because the relevant issues depend on and depend on state legislation, and within them the Board is applying the maximums permitted by it. This agreement, achieved between the Government of Spain and the unions, undoubtedly means a great deal of benefit to public employees in Galicia. In connection with what the spokesperson for the BNG said, I sincerely believe that you live in another galaxy, Mr Bará. He's going to leave the deal here, but I'm not gonna leave it to him because it doesn't matter. Like a crack at everything, like a crack at all! Anyway. By going to the motion, this agreement that has established the State with trade union organizations establishes a remunerative increase in which, if deficit targets are met, there may be an increase that, cumulatively added, can reach 8.79% in three years. And it breaks, as a novelty, with the linkage of the IPC salary sub and it binds to other variables, such as the increase in GDP. It is clear that unions have understood that it is better to link wage growth to economic growth, and in this way the effects of general economic recovery to public workers are clearly shifted. Galicia met all the variables of the budgetary discipline of solvency: deficit, expenditure rule and debt. And also Galicia, when she made the budgets this year, has already left EUR 80 million in reserves — which we have been criticised for that reservation — and thanks to that, right now, when the State Budget Act comes into force, there will be no need to withdraw money from other budget shares because they are already properly allocated. Why? Because the U.S. government is anticipating the situation. Another point in this agreement states that you can set a 100 percent rate of replenishment increased by 8%; this is a plus for autonomous communities like Galicia that meet the objectives of budgetary stability. They also understand public employment stabilization processes, which are already being done here in Galicia. Specifically, with the agreement of October last year, in the case of the squares of Justice, it has already been said that 36 job consolidation squares are set up which have been temporarily and uninterrupted for more than three years. Another point is about working time and conciliation, and it states that you can fix daily work days tailored to the situation of each worker or of each area, and that's what you have to negotiate, but whenever in annual terms the ratio of 37.5 hours per week of work is met. Equality and conciliation measures are also established. And it is established that in temporary disability it can be agreed with the unions that the supplement will be paid up to 100 percent of the remuneration prior to the start of the disability, and ultimately another series of measures that are also put in this agreement. How is this to be done? We propose an amendment to reach an agreement with the Socialist Party and put in place the fulfilment and development of this agreement in Galicia. This must be done in a coordinated way, as we are told that other autonomous communities have already requested. So, as far as Joine is concerned, we are convinced that it will. We will be of the first autonomous communities to apply these measures directly, which have to do with the pay issue. We're talking about 105,000 beneficiaries who are waiting for us. We have a lot to do, as we also have a lot to do in matters of temporality. Mr. Villoslada, we see that you agree on the increase in remuneration, the rate of restoration of 108%, the stabilization processes, the regulation and adaptation of the working day, all the measures we have been listing. What are good measures? What are good measures? But you know what, Mr. Villoslada? That these measures cannot be implemented unless the State budgets are approved. And the Socialist Party has announced that it will not approve State budgets. And if the Socialist Party is not going to approve those budgets, I think logic and transparency would be to come here to this gallery and tell the public employees in Galicia: gentlemen, these are great measures for all public employees, but the Socialist Party will not approve the budgets that would allow them to be implemented. So it seems that the Socialist Party announces that it wants them to apply, but it will not support that they apply because it will not approve the budgets. It seems to us a decision, a posture, contradictory, insolidary with public servants, and to us totally incomprehensible. Except that here you are hiding with this agreement a mistake, which is to commit a series of conditions and requirements and tasks that must be carried out to implement this agreement in Galicia, and that then you, as there are no budgets, say: "Oh, the Council of Galicia is not fulfilling the parliamentary agreement!" That's cheating, Mr. Villoslada. We hope that we will now be able to reach agreement on this proposal that you make, but we also hope that it will reflect on the Socialist Party and, among other things, allow public employees to benefit from all these advantages agreed upon by the union forces. So we ask for and hope that they will approve and support the state's general budgets in Madrid. Nothing else on my side. I hope we've reached this agreement and nothing else to say. I simply believe that with our proposal — which we have already spoken about — we can reach a meeting point and we can get a parliamentary agreement from here that allows public servants in Galicia to arrive at this agreement at national level. So, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u255	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u256	Good afternoon, Members and Members, President. Firstly, we want to say that from the Marea Group we are going to support all the points of this motion by the Socialist Party of Galicia, and not because they seem enough, because really the union agreement with Mr. Montoro Manstesoiras is absolutely insufficient, but if we consider that in the face of the police situation that the workers and workers in the public sector have suffered, we must start to work, because we are at this economic recovery festival where everything that has been stolen is starting to be returned to us, because those charged and corrupt do not return a euro. That, yes, we want to think about why this situation is going on, and we think it's essential that we not forget what happened in this country: what happened to the public sector and what happened to the private sector as well. The adoption of the extraordinary measures for the reduction of the public deficit in 2010 was a consequence of allowing financial markets to be made by global institutions such as the European Central Bank or the International Monetary Fund, with the complicity of certain right-wing governments such as, of course, that of Mr. Mariano Rajoy, and that of Mr. Montoro Manstesoiras, which led us to a crisis scenario which began in 2008 and which we continue to pay today. Those rotten apples, far from being separated from unwinded economies, extended their rottenness. In the case of our state was much worse because of corruption, a corruption that accompanied us all last year, continues to accompany us in 2018 with the internal war of the accused party, and I quote you because you are the sad protagonists of the state bells, with the highest representation of the Government of Mr. Rajoy. So, please don't push us any more into talking about and making friends' policies, when that's your modus operandi up to the infinite and beyond, and now there are governments that do politics in opposition to their client's policy. Interestingly, the same agencies and companies responsible for the crisis, for corruption and for the illegal financing of many of the cases of corruption that release them to you, according to Justice and UDEF, are those that determined governments like their own, the mortars disguised as supervisors, who have taken a number of measures that, far from solving the crisis, have served to undermine the health of public finances, based on aid and rescue with public money, with the money of all, the bank, highways, infrastructure building, companies, later in a new state of crisis, to involve in a process of cutting the rights of the working class and the most disadvantaged, even trying to get them right to pensioners, but the problem is that they were thrown into the streets. While the powerful continue to share profits, they demand austerity and austerity from the public spending of the working class, and their defendants and corrupt — we repeat — do not return a euro from the theft. You are hiding in the international bodies, in the Governor of the Banco de España, alongside the markets that have defended the deregulation of the financial markets and the reduction of public spending, privatization and the flexibility of the labour market to share poverty. Measures that are not new, because they come to be nothing but neoliberalism. I mean, putting more wood into the fire of the crisis, which was a scam, achieving an increase in the financial and business income compared to wage devaluation and the pensions of workers and workers. All the austere measures of wild cuts, especially applied to the public sector and the welfare state, have not been sufficient to satisfy the voracity of the financial markets, which have to the states of southern Europe, and in particular to our point of view of their speculative interests. And this was what justified the real decree, with the aim of speeding up the reduction of the deficit, collecting some of the measures taken earlier, thus correcting the deterioration suffered in public finances, with the objective of restoring confidence in markets supposedly, fulfilling the goal of 3% of GDP. The reality is that while the direct leaders of the crisis continue to share dividends and benefits to the corrupt, without paying and without returning a euro, they are the workers and workers, and in this case the public sector, as well as retired and retired, those we had to face the cost of the measures of the government of Mr. Rajoy and A. Feijóo, along with a lot of measures that damaged the welfare state. Rajoy's royal decree of absolute majority rule used as a principle the negative assessment of the economic environment as an argument to take the measures contained in it, and that later they would analyse how to deepen in this situation. Now we're already shot at GDP, there's no more crisis, we're looking at it economically, so we have to review all this and give it back to the workers and workers in the public sector everything that's been stolen immorally. That's why we're going to support this motion. You are slaves to your own regulations. This is totally insufficient, and this proposal for a maximum of 8.8% rise in three years is totally insufficient, it does not compensate for the reduced and stolen wages of workers and workers of the public, starting with the Socialist Government, the creation of net employment and the replacement rate is obvious, since it does not cover all the depreciations of jobs that the Administration has suffered, and therefore the state of benefits and well-being that we had in those years is not recovered.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u257	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u258	And now, since they don't have an absolute majority, they have to negotiate. Obviously. Reconciliation doesn't exist, women in the public sector are also at war; recovery of working days, and a long, and so forth. Responsibility, gentlemen, ethics. And please do something to remedy the enormous damage they've done to the entire citizenry and to sink into chaos. This is just a first step.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u259	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Author group of the motion, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u260	Thank you again. Mr Bará, the motion is made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, right? The motion is from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I think it is clear. And with this motion the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not in need of referees, it is the result of collective bargaining agreements in the field of State administration, between the central government — with the corresponding powers — and the trade union organisations of Labour Commissions, UXT or CISF. I understand that from the BNG they have to take a maximalist position forward, but what you cannot assert, Mr Bará, is that the agreements in that negotiation are dark, without light and without tachographs, because they are collective bargaining processes. But I understand the position in this case of the Galego Nationalist Block, although at the bottom I am convinced that they value certain agreements, which are not agreements of the People's Party or of the Socialist Party, I insist, are agreements of the majority trade union organizations and of the central government, because it is the central government that the whole public sector is thrown over, since there is an increase in GDP, and there has to be a redistribution of national wealth. In this respect, with regard to Mr Moreira's considerations, say that, indeed, the Socialist Group, the Spanish Socialist Party and the Galician Socialist Party, approve and comply with all these agreements, because they are the agreements that social agents consider at the moment, and in the new budgetary context of growth, the most positive ones to start recovering lost working conditions and lost pay conditions. When I was talking about not thinking about the past, I'm not saying we have to forget, but considering what happened, we have to take steps to try to recover — as I said — lost time. And if the Socialist Party is not going to support the State's budgets, it is for a basic reason, because the whole state, the total public expenditure, not only finance public employment, but, of course, finance a lot of other policies. And as I said the other day — we reminded the Councillor of Fairy — we socialists understand that if there is a nominal increase in national income — as I said — of 4.2%, social expenditure in budgets, in the 2018 Budget Project, is only 22.8%. As I said earlier, by seeking a simplification of things, we do not want to go to a state of well-being at 38%, because the Socialist Party is asking for in the State budgets, Mr Moreira, a higher expenditure of EUR 8 billion, in productive modernization, in social expenditure and social integration, in well-being, in culture and in cooperation with development, with new income shares from corporate tax, the fight against tax fraud, a new type of IRPF for incomes exceeding EUR 150,000, or a new environmental taxation. That is why there is no mistake, the Socialists support the trade union agreements with the Central Government because, although almost half of the average wage lost in recent years is not recovered, these are important steps that the Central Government is forced to take to move on. And if budgets are not approved with the support of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, it is precisely because other public policies and other social policies are not sufficiently met.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u261	Thank you. About the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u262	In any case, Mr President, we do not treat the amendment tabled by the People's Party as a substitution amendment, we have to treat it as an amendment to change which is actually being transposed from the points of the autonomic development agreement that we propose in the motion. I think, in that sense, we should come up with a transaction. Finally, thank you for En Marea's support because we agree that these are important agreements, although not enough. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will continue to work to achieve the progressive improvement of the working conditions of self-employed public employees.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u263	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u264	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u265	Do you need a time for the transaction? We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u266	Yes. [[Pause.]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u267	They're gonna send me a text proposal. Do you read it at the time of the vote? [[Pause.]] Mr. Villoslada, do you read at the time of the vote? Is it too long? [[Mr. Díaz Villoslada pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Okay. [[Mr. Díaz Villoslada pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Perfect. After the debate, we proceeded to the vote. Close the doors, please. Let's go to the votes. We begin by voting on the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Anton Sánchez. The amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted, but if the vote is accepted by points, and the first four points are accepted. First, let us vote for the first four points. We vote. Vote of the first four points of the G.P. Motion. in Marea, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the environmental impact of waste water vegetables from mining operations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the first four points of the motion are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u268	We now vote on the missing point. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. Mr de In Marea, on the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the environmental impact of waste water from mining operations, except the first four points. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 37; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected as well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u269	We now vote on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. No amendments were tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the budget for 2018 for the prevention of school dropout. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u270	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada. There is a transaction text. We voted for this transactional text that you already know the group. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to improve public employment and working conditions in the autonomic public sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 61; votes in favour, 6. The voting is positive. This motion is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u271	When the motions are closed, please open the doors. We continue with the agenda, with a change that has already been reported. Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to professional diseases
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u272	To formulate this question, Mrs Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u273	Thank you, President. First, thank you for the change in the agenda, although it was not necessary at last, but it was already changed. Thank you, in any case, for the need for a schedule to change this change. Today we bring this interpellation, this initiative, precisely the collation that April 28 was celebrated, one more year, the International Day of Safety and Health at Work. Unfortunately, we have no positive data in Galicia, which does not offer any flattery aspect of the policy being carried out in Galicia in the field of health protection in the field of work. That is to say, we have an increase, one more year, of work accidents in the whole autonomous community: 27,286 work accidents in Galicia, which, of course, overcome the increase in jobs. It is clear that, with these government policies, there are more accidents at work than in our country. In this context, in this reality, we also have a clear problem with safety and health related to occupational diseases and exposure to employment agents, and that is why we are bringing this initiative today. Today we are being answered by the Industry Councillor, but of course it is a cross-cutting initiative that we have put into a block of proposals related to health at work. There are aspects of the initiative, of this interpellation, which we move to the Galician Union, questions directly related to health care and others directly related to health protection, and we do so in a framework in which unfortunately, as we denounce every year on this International Day of Safety and Health at Work, the clear reduction in budgetary shares — something we have also denounced in the budgetary debate every year — devoted to safety and health at work. We have the obvious data drawn in the budget-related exercises that the Union is dedicated to Issga, which has been reduced by 40% since 2009. It is true that, unlike the start of the previous year, this year slightly increases that game, but it is totally insufficient, and does not recover that 40% cut that has occurred since the People's Party ruled. In addition, the rest of the job security and health budget, which is practically unrealistic — which was already very small in the year 2009 — was cut — we could say — dramatically: about 5.6 million euros we had in the year 2009, 755,000 euros we have in 2018. The obvious reality in numbers translates into the increase in labour inequality and the problem of occupational diseases, which are also increasing, according to Issga's data. We have met with the Issga staff, we have met with the union centres and we have met with affected and affected by different professional diseases, and it is clear that we are currently lacking — unless the advisor tells us otherwise — a map indicating where the occupational risks and diseases are in the whole of the autonomous community. There are no elements available that have to provide health protection for workers and workers with a map indicating where these occupational diseases are, where there are those risks. And we want the advisor to tell us today if they, if the Galician Union, if you have a specific map, and if they don't, what are those measures they plan to take to have it. Clearly, this doesn't exist. In fact, Issga itself denounces that, as far as professional diseases are concerned, data on the same occupational diseases are not sufficient and that the data provided by companies are relatively low. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Mr Solla Fernández addresses the President.]] Therefore, it is essential that the Council of Galicia take action in this direction. We have very relevant cases of very specific themes that affect the health of Welsh people at their workplace; one of them is exposure to asbestos or asbestos. We have a public health problem related to the absence of location of the points where asbestos or asbestos is placed within all public buildings, of the public network, which must be determined; and, of course, it is a very relevant and very important topic. And we have a work and public health problem related to that, too, which is the deterioration of the unit that treats people who are sick with asbestos. It was fought a lot, mainly by the naval workers, to have a Ferrol unit that cared for people who had been ill because of their job exposure, for devoting a lifetime to employment. And the reality is that today it has deteriorated and is moving part of that attention to primary care. So today we are also asking Junta to transfer us as it is or as they value the situation of the Asbestos Unit and to open up an asbestos unit to the southern part of Galicia. There are not only public yards that have worked and in which there is exposure, but also private yards in the south of the community and, of course, there are other series of exhibitions related to the use of asbestos in the workplaces. And besides, we have exposure to other agents that produce pneumoconiosis. We understand that the rest of pneumonia has to be treated in a specific unit as well. We meet with people affected by silicosis and we find something that is tremendous. Many of them are being intervened in lung to facilitate a lung transplant. And in fact, at the time of control, they find that they don't access a specific unit of pneumoconyosis and there's no specific staff to take control. So from our group, we want to know what the Galician Union is going to do and they're thinking of providing the south with a unit for asbestos that can be extended to other pneumoconies. They are very aggressive professional diseases, and unfortunately, in the case of silicosis — and so on in the initiative we are considering today — the data of the 2016 Issga itself indicate a recomputation of cases, especially in the province of Ourense. In the debate of some of the motions this afternoon we were talking about precisely the need to renew or improve working conditions on the blackboards, reference was made here. And the reality is that we have an increase related to the working conditions that, besides -- and so put it in writing -- has an important gender bias. Because the data recognize that not only in extraction, but in the manipulation of the slate itself and the elements itself petreos in any other industry — but also here — the exposure is the same. However, essentially those who pack the slate, in this case, are women. And there's a mugging of cases and there's no sort of plan on the part of the Galician Union. We therefore find it very important that this circumstance be taken into account. And there's another aspect not written but also related to professional diseases, which is the situation of exposure to radon. We have a very serious problem in Galicia, we have a serious problem generally in the homes that came out and it was news in the last few weeks, but we have a problem also with work exposure, because many public buildings are exposed to this substance, to this gas, and yet no measurement is being done. Here we must reiterate that the Galician Union is failing to comply with Spanish legislation in this case, because of course there are sufficient rules, there is an instruction from the Nuclear Safety Council, IS33, which was also published in 2012 in the Official State Gazette, which is to be complied with and which requires measurements and checks at the workplaces. It's being breached in such a way that even some union has also denounced the Galician Union to the Labour Inspectorate for this circumstance. It's true that the resolution said that the competition was from Industry, that is to say, its counseling. But we have a problem: in this very Parliament, radon measurements are being carried out, which is not being done in many buildings in the Galician Union. We don't understand why these types of measurements are not being performed in your administration. In addition, the Central Government is in breach of European legislation, Euratom legislation, which required maximum transposition in February 2018. We have still not transposed this directive. We have specific initiatives on both asbestos and silicosis and radon. Obviously, they all have an impact on the need for that map, the analysis of the situation of exposures to toxic agents — cancers in some cases, in others not — that produce occupational diseases. And we need the Galician Union to take action in that direction. In that framework, therefore, what we are trying to move with this interpellation is that the Galician Union has to put — said in a colloquial manner — the batteries with a topic that is not paying attention, which is occupational health, which are occupational diseases, with a drastic reduction in the budget devoted to the prevention of accidents and occupational diseases, with the total lack of interest expressed in that cut in budgets both from Issga and the rest of departures. So, Mr. Conde, today we want to know, in view of this situation, what will be done, what measures will be taken, to have that map that also demands the workers and workers of the Issga, not only the union centres, and the measures that will be taken in the light of the data of the Issga itself that indicate that repoint and that modification of the pattern of incidence. We need to indicate — as I referred to intervention related to silicone itself — that problem we have, because of course we have a problem with gender seism and we have a problem — coincidentally — in the work of the quarry, but we have a bigger problem, which is the use of pladur and the use of other materials to make measles that have a much higher concentration of silicon because it is artificial and there are far more early problems in much younger people. And, of course, the Galician Union has to take some kind of measure in that sense. We wonder if you think you're going to open that asbestos unit, if you're going to extend it to other diseases, and obviously — and to finish it — if you're going to provide the Issga with enough means to be able to make more stricter control than, fortunately, with the few means they have, they're trying to move to today. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u274	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Solla, I would like to thank you for raising in this Parliament such a sensitive and as important issue as the health of workers, a matter which, of course, for Galicia's board is a priority, and very specifically, logically, for this Council, as a labour authority and also for competition in industrial security. And in that sense, I thank you for your intervention and your interest in improving the prevention and treatment of professional diseases, especially in two very specific cases, such as as as asbestos and silicosis. What we can no longer agree with is the management of certain concepts and certain figures. I don't think you can point out and come to this gallery to say that the Galician Union is not paying attention to occupational health. It's a statement, frankly, that we cannot share, just like we can't share, simply a comparison of data with which you try to link job creation data to work accident data. We really cannot agree with that approach because we understand that this aspect must be addressed objectively and, therefore, how we can effectively address and act against diseases in the labour market. First of all, you know — and you haven't named it — that this government has the Swedish occupational safety and health strategy 2017-2020. He also knows that Issga has annual plans that include actions related to occupational disease research and workers' health monitoring. So there's a very concrete plan to deal with this situation. In fact, Issga has investigated more than 2,600 occupational diseases in the last nine years that, together with field work in the programs by sector, or at risk, and the treatment of statistics by the Galego Labour Condition Observatory, allow us, Mrs Solla, to have a very clear knowledge of professional diseases in Galicia. So there's a knowledge, in that sense, very exhaustive. Secondly, you know that not all the pathologies that are diagnosed are linked to professional diseases, and in that sense there is a very clear procedure of notification and registration — common to the entire state — so in Galicia we have a system of alerts to relate the medical diagnosis to the occupational disease framework. And, logically, this application allows Sergas doctors and prevention services to communicate the suspicion of any kind of occupational disease. Thirdly, health and safety regulations at work are becoming more and more demanding. I think that too — in order to make a realistic diagnosis — we must bear in mind that, indeed, this requirement of regulation is increasing, and prevention is one of the most important aspects in which we are working. You're talking about asbestos. It's, logically, a situation that is of enormous concern to this Government, but it also knows that since December 2002 asbestos has been banned in Spain. Therefore, exposure is now limited to the disposal and treatment activities where asbestos exists, which are jobs that you know require a technical report from Issga and that, in order to be authorised, they must meet all the preventive requirements necessary to prevent precisely that both workers and third persons may expose themselves to asbestos. In fact, Galicia has increased the number of companies registered in the Business Register with Risk by Asbestos, which have different work plans approved. So, you know, Mrs. Solla, that cases of asbestos exposure diseases basically correspond to workers who were exposed in the past, when the levels of protection were much lower, and also to some relatives or people who lived close to companies working with asbestos materials. And, logically, the fact that the activity has been banned since the year 2002 marks a completely different scenario to what you are moving to this Parliament. As far as exposure to silica is concerned, environmental values know that they have decreased in 2007 and therefore the European Commission is working not only to comply with these environmental values and limits — which, logically, the Galician Union is working to ensure that they are produced — but also the European Commission itself is working to change these values. And so they're very likely to be reduced in the future. In any case, the Galician Union knows it's been working for more than eight years next to the slate sector. We're working with the sector, with the industry, and that's allowing us to identify and protocol good practices for improving the protection of workers. Recently in this same year, in February, we called for a specific aid line precisely so that industry can modernize all production lines and, therefore, that there is a lower impact from the point of view of silica powder on the different production lines; a specific aid line with a allocation of EUR 3 million specifically intended for this situation linked to silica powder. In addition, Issga's 2018 business plan includes a whole series of activities precisely to gain a greater understanding of the situation of occupational diseases in Galicia. So we're not only developing a study to analyze the incidence of silicosis in Galicia, but we're also promoting the prevention of job risks in the canteens, we're developing campaigns to promote the prevention of work risks in jobs outside the usual center, and we're also developing a series of medical recognition programs for workers exposed to silica. Finally, honourable Member, the reality is that a continued and coordinated effort is being made in Galicia between the administration, the social partners, companies and the workers. We are working together, we are acting more and more strongly for better health and job security; an action that is integral and that goes from awareness and prevention of risks and diseases to follow-up and control, through technical advice, training and development of studies, and also through an Issga work plan that this year 2018 includes up to 74 worksheets of activity. This performance is being performed by paying attention to the two diseases that you have specifically pointed out. And Issga has a working group of both asbestos and silicosis to follow up on compliance and also to promote initiatives that will enable greater prevention and protection of workers. And logically, this is done in collaboration with the different departments of the Administration, and in particular through the Sergas, the Public Health System of Galicia, which logically guarantees quality care for all patients, whether or not they are due to a professional illness. And he knows there are specific units in areas where cases are larger. There's so much specific action and a specific health area in Ferrol, where you do a consultation related to asbestos disease, and there's also a health unit in Vigo where there's a specific clinic for patients who have a suspicion or are diagnosed with silicosis. And besides, you're talking about a gender perspective. You should know that Issga, through a committee to integrate equality in the prevention of work risks, has an active presence through the social partners, and is advising and reporting on this subject and is promoting specific activities in the women's sectors. Among other initiatives, specific follow-up is developed for the protection of workers' working health during pregnancy, maternity and breastfeeding periods. So, Your Honor, this Government is busy working on greater job security. There is no other interpretation, and of course, we are acting not only with full responsibility, but also with consensus on all actions with the social partners, with the sector itself and, logically, with the different departments of the administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u276	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Solla Fernández has the floor on her back.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u277	Thank you, President. Mr. Count, I appreciate your tone. But you asked us for rigour, and yet you didn't answer the questions of the inquiry. And I would ask you, please, if you have them in writing, to answer what we're asking you. Because, if you think you have enough data — something that I contradicted Issga's statement about occupational diseases because they are not sufficiently reported — you will not have any problem with making that map that claims trade union centres and some Issga professionals. So, of course, you should be able to answer that. With regard to specific aspects, obviously since 2002 asbestos has been banned, with which, sixteen years later, it is tremendous that we have in public buildings asbestos placed — in schools, in hospitals, fibrous pipes.... When are you planning the withdrawal? When is there going to be a plan, at least a map of the public buildings and if you plan that withdrawal? It's not true that it's just a job exhibition. Because you know, like me, that the materials are getting worse over the years and that the fibers get out. Of course, exposure isn't the same as in direct contact, but there's a risk and it has to be removed. And there's a regulation that obliges them and there's no kind of planning. I'm going to set an example: the hospital in Pontevedra, which has asbestos ceilings, and schools we brought here don't know how many. I mean, it's a problem where you have responsibility — obviously, the other advisors too. And they have to do some sort of performance about it. But besides, you didn't answer us about the asbestos unity. It's obvious that this aspect is from the Health Council, but you answer with solidarity. And since 2014 there has been a clear deterioration of the service being provided. They're caring for many people in primary care when they were previously treated in the specific unit. There's a waiting list -- and we have other specific initiatives -- of two years and four months for revisions. And besides, you can't say here that there's no exposure and that then there's no such problem, because you know perfectly that health problems appear at ten, at twenty and thirty years of exposure and, therefore, the foreseeable thing is that more workers and more workers or sick relatives or affected by this exposure continue to appear. In Vigo there's no unit, we only have Ferrol's. There's some pneumology professional who serves silicotics, but we don't have a unit. And that's exactly what we're asking about on this initiative, because there are sick people who claim that second and gifted unity. At least from En Marea we defend that it is for the rest of pneumoconyosis, that the most abundant in our country are asbestos and silicosis. And silicosis is not restricted solely to the world of the slate, although evidently the dagger as an example because Issga says Ourense is increasing. That contradicts those measures that tell you they're taking. But there's one element that I think is substantial. Obviously, the modernization of industry is necessary, but not that it will simply be reduced. And you said you were making a report. The report already exists, it is an Issga report, which I studied for the preparation of the initiatives and which clearly indicates the exposure in other fields or in other areas — so I moved it that they are not by direct extraction of stone or manipulation — as can be the handling of measles of that brand — I will not say it — and the handling, of course, of those artificial walls, of that pladur — which is also a brand — that has a very high concentration of silicon. And I'm telling you, there's a concern because sick people under the age of 40 are showing up with very advanced fibrosis. What will the Industry Council do in this case with regard to occupational health? And, of course, with respect to radon you made no reference. You said that silicosis was progressing in directives or in EU framework standards. But we have a standard in the case of radon that obliges transposition. Spain, the Central Government, has not abandoned it. It is therefore impossible because it ended in February 2018. And we have a rule of our own that was published in 2012 and you're incompetent in the buildings of Junta de Galicia. Fortunately not in this Parliament, but in the buildings of the Galician Union, no measurements are being made. What do you think of that? What do you do? Clearly, it's a problem. And I would like you to answer the questions of interpellation, because there is a clear, clear reduction in the levels of work accidents prevention and health promotion in the workplace. The reduction affects Issga and the rest of the game, and it's a reduction of what you don't realize and it shows that this is the Gambling bet of Galicia. For many plans that would like to be announced, there are no budgets, therefore there is no increase in inspection. And it is not enough to put on the role measures that they consider necessary or important. We also have reports from the University of Santiago de Compostela related to exposure to radon, which propose the measures — already mentioned — that must be taken. But all these things can't be done if there's no budget and there's no staff to inspect, to do measurements, to take action, to take prevention. And there isn't because -- and it's over now -- the global budget devoted to safety and health at work has been reduced by 56% since you rule. Therefore, Mr. Count, try to answer the plea. This is a serious and important issue, and, of course, from En Marea we are committed to it and we will bring more initiatives to this plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u278	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. You have the floor, for the Government's replica shift, the Economics, Employment and Industry advisor, Mr. Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Solla, I think I answered the questions that you have raised, but if you understand not, I will try to synthesize now, indeed, those questions that you have moved me to. The first thing I have to say to you is that there are a number of cross-sectional performances, not only from the Economic, Employment and Industry Council, but also from the Health Council itself. Indeed, we are developing actions, for example, in the industrial field, which seems particularly relevant to us because there, logically, we have to act, to reduce the risk for workers who are in contact with the silica powder. So this order of help to develop investments to improve working conditions seems particularly relevant to us. Of course, from the Issga perspective, we understand that it's much more operational to work on risk maps and specific health studies. You pose another strategy, but really Issga is working on specific risk maps, Issga is working on specific health studies and therefore we understand that they are tools that allow us to drive preventive actions in a concrete way. So there's a planning, there's a risk map, there's specific studies related to health, and so there's preventive action. I can give you examples of chemical or ergonomic risk maps in industry, or, for example, studies on occupational health and epidemiological, sectoral or collective surveillance. In addition, you forget again — I think I sincerely held your hand — that there is a Welsh strategy of safety and health at work, in the Government, that it is consensual and that it is working together with the social partners and, therefore, it contemplates a whole series of actions that also allow Issga to develop its work in a more focused way. There are resources to carry out your activities. And we're also working on making new technology tools and databases needed. And, therefore, that Welsh strategy is also allowing for better government action. As for your budget, the trend, of course, in the coming years will be the one we have recently, which is that the budget of the Issga increases. It increased by 3% in 2018, but the most important thing is that in Chapter VI — which is where the annual programming activities are grouped — the rise is more than 30%. So there's a budget increase. But regardless of that budget increase, you know perfectly well that, linked to prevention, it's very important everything that means information, advice, monitoring and control of all risk prevention and reduction programs. That's not Chapter VI, Mrs. Solla, that's Chapter I, and there, logically, the Government holds that bet for the technical staff of the Issga. So this knowledge that Issga's staff is acting precisely so that through prevention and through all studies, counselling and control programs, we develop a work that we understand is also indispensable for that reinforcement of Issga. Now, Issga must indicate that each year it develops an internal training plan that therefore enhances the capacity of Issga to respond not only to legislative developments but also to new risks and emerging risks to which workers are exposed. So there's a constant and continuous specialization of the Issga staff that logically translates -- even if you deny it -- into a quality service for the whole of Greek society. We believe, ultimately, Mrs Solla, that there are very concrete actions, and these are actions that are also allowing the public health system to guarantee quality care. And you know there's a health area in Ferrol that develops specific asbestos-related consultations, and you also know that there's a specific clinic for care to patients with suspected or diagnosed silicosis in the Vigo area. And they're located in Ferrol's health and in Vigo's health for a very simple reason: that's where there's more cases and so that's where Sergas' performances need to be reinforced. Therefore, Mrs Solla — and I conclude — Galicia and this government have a commitment to continue to achieve the best working conditions, a commitment to prevent risks and, of course, a commitment that is articulated through a policy of dialogue and consensus with the social partners, which you also omit. I don't know why...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u280	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u281	...but also forgets that there is a strategy that is also consensual to the social partners themselves and that, year after year, it knows that it is concrete in the action plans of Issga itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-08-DSPG070.u282	Thank you very much, Counselor. When this initiative is over, we will suspend the meeting until tomorrow at ten a.m.
