ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. [[Murmurs.]] Good morning again. Let's restart the session. I begin by justifying the inattentiveness of this full Mrs. Barahona Martín. And I also greet our guests and especially I greet also the students of the Enrique Murualis Institute, of the first and second bachelor's degree, of Pontenova. Welcome to Parliament. We started with an accumulated debate in the Question Time to the President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures envisaged by the Galician Council in the face of social claims against discrimination against women, low pensions or cuts in justice Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the actions planned by the Galician Union to meet the claims of Greek citizenship, expressed in the streets during the last few weeks
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u2	She therefore begins by asking Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want. Give a voice to Mrs. Pontón's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u3	Good morning and thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, democracy is much more than going to vote once every four years. And the Greek citizenship is doing an exercise of real democracy when he tells the streets that neither you nor the People's Party have signed an empty check to rule against the majority of society. And in the face of the discomfort expressed in the streets, what is your response as president of the Galician Union?, hear?, take note?, start a process of dialogue with those sectors? None of this, Mr. Feijóo, does the opposite justly, responds with more prepotence and choleria: historical manifestation of public health, and you respond by approving your health counter-reform; workers and workers of justice maintain an indefinite strike, and you are incapable of reaching an agreement and collapsing a basic service for citizenship. But it's funny, Mr. Rajoy does get deals with other workers with increases of up to 720 euros per month of his wages. We women play a massive 8M role, but you're still funding the centers that segregate by sex, taking hold of that Wert Law that just endorsed the Constitutional Court. Great contribution to equality! I remind you that it was also legal at the time that women couldn't vote or we couldn't divorce each other. Everything, of course, is very legal, a legalized machismo. [[Applause]] We want to know what your contribution will be after this 8M: to continue with this legalized machismo or to defend a co-educational teaching? And finally, pensioners also claim decent pensions. But the People's Party for Mana tells them there's no money for pensions, but in the afternoon it announces that they're going to spend 10,000 million euros more on military weapons. A real cocksucker and pensioners in this country who already have the second lowest pension in the state! In this House today you will vote against raising non-contributory pensions to the 40,000 Greeks and Greeks who have to live with 377 euros a month. And after you vote that you don't, you'll go out the door, you'll get in your official car and you'll stay so crowded; because at last this doesn't bother you. Once again, I'd rather defend Rajoy than the people of this country and vote against a BNG initiative that only wants to defend decent pensions for our country. But look, Mr. Feijóo, don't be mistaken, because this prepotence and this contempt with which you treat those who think differently will turn against you, because you can't despise everyone all the time. And for all this since the BNG we asked him: what measures will he take in the face of the social cry in our country to defend real equality, a justice without discrimination, decent pensions and, of course, future for our people? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, 15 days ago we proposed — with that retreat that you like so much — that you have appointed Jordi Evolo honorary Member of this Parliament, to see if we were more fortunate and the questions that you were not answering to the opposition at least answered that journalist. Because the journalists and journalists in our country are no better luck than the opposition groups, and they don't have it because last week you told them that you had no category to answer your questions and to explain if they weren't just members of the newspaper that had television programs in Madrid. They were asking you for something very simple to answer, and it was, "What government delegate had given you the information?" Which government delegate had given you the photos he had with Martial Dorado? The question is very easy. You can answer it here, if you want, and you can answer it because, in addition to the House's Legal Services, they said, in a report they issued yesterday, that you could answer things different from the questions they asked you. So it's perfectly legitimized legally to do it. You lack explanations and you remain indifferent, and that's why this should change right now in this House because it owes us a lot of explanations. To begin with, there's also another question that stayed in the air the other day: whether you were going to apologize or not for calling all the Greeks and all the smugglers. Because it was something he also did in a media and that in the House — the seat of Galicia's popular sovereignty — you should explain. He probably didn't mean it, he probably didn't mean it, he probably didn't. But if so, you should explain it, then you should, in that case, rectify or ratify yourself, whatever you choose. You have a lot of questions you don't have to answer, lots of questions. We have come here to ask you for a citizen's cry that is expressed in the streets — a lot of howling lately — among them, the cry for equality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u6	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u7	...of thousands of women who left on March 8 manifest themselves for equality between women and men. You scoffed at the strike that they were about to strike, and they answered you, and all who are like you, that there is nothing that can stop women's equality today and that there were, besides, many reasons to cry for equality, to begin with, a 29% wage gap between women and men; then, some glass ceilings that prevent people like researchers, like Mary of the Source, from following their scientific progress by being mothers; they claimed not to be invisible for longer during family care; and they also demanded to put at last all male violence and all macho complicity. And what is the People's Party doing? What do you do to end these situations of inequality? Why have you removed psychological care services in the courts of our country for the victims, used in 95% by the victims of gender? Why did you cover up attitudes like Baltar's last year, which we all heard in the media as he offered a job in the Deputy for sex? You have no opinion, and that turns out to you indifferent. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u8	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u9	...in the fight for equality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u10	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u11	...that the women and men of this country have manifested themselves?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u12	I'm sorry. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u14	Thank you, Mr. Villares. I remind you, Mr. Villares, that the matter of Mr. Baltar, which you mention, has already been dealt with by justice and has been filed. And you should know that. [[Murmurs.]] It's just to get back on this thing! [[Murmurs.]] Please! [[Murmurs.]] I just don't want to get into this, but there's something going on with me! [[Murmurs.]] Please! [[Murmurs.]] Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, Mrs Pontón, democracy consists of something more than voting every four years. Democracy is also about respecting what the Greeks say for four years. It is important, therefore, to know that democracy is to respect the results, and I believe that all of us should be influenced when we take decisions. [[Applause]] Your Honor, I told you 15 days ago in the same line that I'm going to do today. Every time there's a demonstration or conflict in Galician society, what any government must do is listen to all of the Greek citizenship that is manifested in the street and, of course, also be respectful of most of the Greek citizenship that decides not to manifest itself in the street. I told you in the previous session that we respect constitutional rights, right of strike and right of demonstration. We are a constitutional government, we respect constitutional rights, even though there are groups in the House that respect only part of the Constitution that interests them. Of course, we will continue to listen to the arguments of citizenship, all the arguments of citizenship that seem right to us. If we find it possible to meet your demands, let's do it. For those who don't seem able to meet their demands, we face and explain them. That is democracy, Mrs. Pontón, and not to think that ours is always right and that theirs is clear. For that there are other political parties — by the way, in what you are fighting — for. Your Honor, what we have done in the field of equality, firstly, was to adopt the first equality law that Galicia had, and to be the pioneer government at the national level of many of the equality decisions. For example, the first Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan approved this government. For example, this government has been approved by the First Equality Plan of the General Administration. For example, the equal training of staff in the service of the Self-Government is approved by the Government. And, for example, this government is the first one to decide to be a person in all judicial cases, whenever there is macho violence as a result of death. This government will continue to work from the beginning, from education. This government has been approved by the first Action Plan for Equality in Educational Centres. The first subject of configuration within equality of men and women, both in vocational and secondary education, was raised by this government. And now we're working on another free configuration subject in the field of Bachelor's degree. We comment and commit to resubmitting a new plan, the Greek Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan 2018-2020. This is what the Government does. By the way, Your Honor, bring me the ruling of the Constitutional Court. On the one hand, it requires us to comply with constitutional rights, but on the other hand, when there is a Constitutional Court ruling that you don't like, it's simply inappropriate. Well, look, the Constitutional Court ruling of schools to which parents freely take their children and their daughters is in some countries that are not doubtful from a democratic point of view. They are the same rights in France, Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Australia, New Zealand, Ireland... and, by the way, also in the BNG and the PSOE, because the BNG and the PSOE, when they ruled in Galicia, were in favour of these schools, and that's why they always put money in the budget to concert it. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo denies it and utters words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, is it not right to constantly and continuously manipulate the Greeks by concealing that information from their own decisions? When you were in government, the labor gap was higher than you were now; when you were in government, the women were unemployed and when we were in government, there are 7,000 women less unemployed and 7,000 women more members of Social Security. Your Honor, that's the data. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Of course, Your Honor, there are many things left to do, of course. As far as justice is concerned, you say that we do not accept the proposals. We accept all the proposals. We improve working conditions, improve economic conditions, dialogue and show flexible posture. We are strictly fulfilling what we agreed to in Parliament. In Parliament we agreed that the officials of the Justice Administration in Galicia should charge above the average of the autonomous communities. At the moment, the employment offer of Junta places them within the first five autonomous communities with the highest salary. And we also offer the unions a security and guarantee clause so that if at some point there are others who start to charge more, in Galicia we will increase those salaries. Mrs Pontón, why don't you agree with what you vote for? What's the matter, Mrs. Pontón? The problem is, if you do something right, and if you do it, it's not right. Mrs. Pontón, you've been valuing and pressing the "yes" key of state budgets for a long time. In those state budgets nothing more and nothing less than for the first time the pensions were frozen. And now it turns out, Your Honor, that we have reached the Government with two guarantees: firstly, to ensure the viability of pensions; secondly, to increase pensions; and thirdly, to the third, Your Honor, the proposals we are currently fighting are: for 56% of the Greeks to increase pensions above 0.25% and for 10% of the Greeks to lower their taxes so that they do not have to pay the income tax of individuals. That is, 66% of the Greeks in 2018 or cover more pensions than in previous years or pay less taxes than in previous years. When you ruled, pensions were frozen. [[Applause]] Look, you'll understand, Mr. President, that it's very difficult to answer and take seriously a spokesperson from a group who simply doesn't ask me any questions; simply sitting after session, what it does to me is a series of accusations. Allah and His way of understanding! What happens is there are some people here who think they're most people's spokespersons and they're not even spokespersons in their group, and that, of course, causes some problems. Mr. Villares, if your group doesn't support you as a spokesman, what do you want me to do? You know why you don't admit it as a spokesman? Because they're ashamed of their interventions. And you know what happens in the German Parliament? That the German Parliament has a camera with little respect for its components. Yes, Mr. Villares. I understand that you talk about shouting in the streets and don't listen to the screams in the streets. Of course, we will always condemn vandalism in the street, without any doubt. Citizens have the right to keep their properties — vehicles or others — in the street safely. And we have a right, Your Honor, that when the police want to identify a person...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u17	...that person does not use his parliamentary office to perform his parliamentary work during the acts of vandalism. That's right, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u19	Mr. Villares, you have a chance: are you going to make a decision as a spokesperson for your group?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u20	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u21	Will you regain the dignity of this House after what happened to a member of your group?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u23	Mr. Villares, stop shouting in the streets and act, if you want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u25	...as a Member with a minimum of prestige.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u26	Thank you. You've finished your shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u27	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u28	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u29	Mr. Feijóo, I, of course, believe that you are the one who is confused about what democracy means, because democracy doesn't mean that citizens have given you a blank check to do what you want in your government and go undermining more and more citizenship rights. It's clear that you don't want to hear what people are telling you in the street, and when there's a social cry, a social excitement like we're living in this country, it means that things are not right, and your government has an obligation to rectify and listen. You've already told us how equality is conceived: by misrepresenting the reality of the working situation of women. Because you, Mr. Feijóo, who is an expert in manipulating and torturing statistics, should know that today there are fewer busy women than when you came to the presidency of the Union and yet more unemployed women and many more precarious women. So I don't know what reason women in this country have to trust someone who fakes reality. And I should also know why there was a change in the wage gap: not because I had improved the working position of women, but because there was a devaluation of all wages. And a president responsible for equality would be very concerned to see that in the last three years, the wage gap of women is rising again. But we know that it doesn't concern you or you because it's got your head somewhere else and it's not, of course, in the situation that women in that country are living in. He has also just shown us that his head is not in how to improve the situation of the pensioners and pensioners we have in Galicia, who have the second lowest pensions. We have a lot of people who survive with incomes that are below the poverty line. And to all of those what you have to tell them is that what Rajoy proposes is what Feijóo proposes and that it seems enough to you a 0.25 throwout in a country where most of our pensioners have pensions that are on levels that place them under the poverty line. I believe that the Greeks and the Greeks deserve a full-time president, who has his head in this country and who, of course, before pressing the button, thinks of its consequences. Today in this plenary we are presenting a BNG proposal, a proposal with which we want to improve pensions, and improving pensions means that all the reforms that the Socialist Party and the People's Party have made, which are undermining the labour market and robbing rights, are a problem for the future. But he also has in his hand to improve those lower pensions, such as non-contributory pensions. We're talking about 40 million in an budget that exceeds 9,000. I believe that it is a problem of political will; it is a problem that is unique and exclusively to have actions to restore that purchasing power from pensions. You, Mr. Feijóo, decide which button you want to press, if the 'no' of continuing to hold unfair pensions, or the 'yes' of telling pensioners that you're on the street we hear, we take note and we're going to defend your right to decent pensions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, you're much more comfortable asking than answering, but this is the government control session; therefore, we ask and you answer. He may not answer, but he does not apologize and does not hide behind his own questions so as not to answer what we ask him. Tell you we don't ask him any questions. Here comes a clear question: which government delegate or member of the Government Delegation has given you the information from the summary of your photos with Martial Dorado? Do you have such a fragile memory that you can't answer that question? [[Murmurs.]] Don't you know the answer or don't you want to give the answer? But there's a clear question, right, and it's formulated; and in addition to the House's Legal Services, they say that it can answer it without any problem, that there is no kind of incompatibility with the Rules of Procedure that you answer that. You can answer that, too, because I asked you a very clear question, whether you ratify or correct your words where you call smugglers all of the Greeks and all of the Greeks. It's a clear question that could have a clear answer: ratification or correction. So it's simple, it's simple! If you don't want to, it will be because you're uncomfortable answering the questions. When we talk about explanations, yes, we ask you for explanations for many more things derived from your position as Chief Executive and President of the People's Party, of course we do. He doesn't like us asking him about certain cases; we ask him about others, because, fortunately, the People's Party, of cases, is sober so that we ask him. For example, in the case of Champion, he was sentenced just two months ago by a member of the People's Party who didn't sit far from where you are sitting today because of prejudice; yet you haven't given us your opinion on the subject. The mayor of Palas is convicted of prevarication and harassment to the Secretary of the Town Hall and is now mayor thanks to the support of the People's Party and its concelers in the Hall of King's Palace. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In the name of the equality you said to take note of the 8M demonstrations, are you going to do something to change that situation? Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u32	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u33	The greatness of democracy, Mrs Pontón, is that it is reflected in what everyone says at every moment. Yes, Mrs. Pontón, yes. [[Murmurs.]] You just accused me of misusing the unemployment data and when I arrived there was less female unemployment than now. I'll give you the data. I know you don't care, but to the Greeks, and to the Greeks above all, they'll be interested. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Look, the number of unemployed women when I got to the government was 113,955; now it's 106,174; i.e. 7,781 less unemployed women. You said again that there were more members of Social Security than now. When we reached the Government, the number of social security affiliates was 465,000; now there are 472,000; that is, 7,126 more members of social security than they are now. Mrs. Pontón, stop manipulating everyone; even manipulates social security data and unemployment data. Mrs. Pontón, it's very difficult to take some serious proposals from you. Miss Pontón, what do you think, we don't have pensioners at home? Do you think that we are a bunch of Martians who have arrived here, in Parliament, in the morning, and that — those who have parents or mothers — we don't know what they charge and how their pensions are mobilised? It seems that only you have pensioners at home, Mrs. Pontón. So, what are you talking about? Are you talking about the fact that the largest number of women and older men who vote in this party don't know how they live, how our people live, how our families live? Mrs. Pontón, stop using demagoxia continuously. Mrs. Pontón, of course we like that people can charge more pensions, of course, but the first thing we had to do was shield pensions. 29% of Spain's total expenditure is public pensions, 29% of all that is spent on all public administrations. Do you know this year how much pensions were increased just to meet the new pensioners? EUR 3 billion, without charging for revaluation. Do you know how much we pay for pensions every month? More than 10 billion euros, more than the budget Galicia has for the whole year. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, do you know the situation I faced when I arrived at the government you were supporting? In 2009, for each new pensioner, 7 jobs were destroyed in Galicia; now, for each new pensioner, 6 jobs are created in Galicia. That's the big difference between your policies and your policies. [[Applause]] Why does he manipulate so much that people don't have information or training? The average retirement pension in Galicia has increased from 2009 to 28.6%; from 698 euros to 900. And the set of pensions, i.e. retirement, widowhood, orphanhood and disability, have increased in Galicia by 26.7% since 2009. Why don't you apologize for supporting a government that for the first time in Spanish democratic history has frozen pensions? That's probably what we'll keep talking about in the next question. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, unfortunately, she wasn't very lucky at any data. He didn't give the House one truth, he didn't! It is curious that a Member may come to the House to say these things. Even the boys and girls of this institute will be talking: but how can I say that female unemployment rises when female unemployment falls? We're back to not distinguishing ups and downs, ups and downs, and in high schools this has been learned from primary, Mrs. Pontón. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] In any case, when we talk about social screams, why don't you take care of the social cry of reversible prison? Why don't you take care of it? [[Murmurs.]] That social cry doesn't matter. You don't care, ladies and gentlemen of the Power Tides and the BNG? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That cry doesn't matter. Why don't you pay attention to Catalonia's social cry in defense of the law, the Constitution and the Statute? Why, instead of going to partners with the CUP, don't you pay attention to that social cry? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Why don't you pay attention to the social cry of parents and mothers who are simply asking for justice? We, of course, are going to take care of all the social screams. "We call on all citizens to a spring of mobilizations. It is essential that the battle be fought on the street." Mr. Villares, your leader, Mr. Echenique, asks for this. His companion, the honourable lady, probably understood perfectly what Mr Echenique wanted to say and on Saturday night, in Santiago, a number of people just came out on the street with the interest of pure vandalism, of which I am ashamed to be a Member in this House. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Mr Villares, what are you going to do about this honourable Member? What decision will you make to return the dignity to this House, Mr. Villares? I understand that you have no ability to answer, but I, in fact, challenge you. Look, I understand that when there's 2,500 enrolled and they get 250, it's very hard. Mr. Villares, imagine that we have called the People's Party and it comes to me about 10% of the members that make up the body, and even my fellow Members don't even come to me with that governing body that I chair. Mr Villares, neither the Members of this House nor the Members of Madrid take it seriously as a spokesperson, and I am concerned. I am concerned, Your Honor, that I cannot speak as a spokesperson or even of the Members and Members next to you. Now, it's no wonder you mix everything, justice, health, equality, pensions, whatever you need. The important thing is to just build a mess after another mess. Look, we respect more demonstrations than you respect them. And, of course, we're going to keep working so that it can be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u34	Quiet, please! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u35	Don't keep mocking the workers of justice. You should have respect for the workers of justice, who will increase their wages between 3,000 and 4,000 euros more a year. That's for a lot of people two more months. I understand, Your Honor, that you don't care; it's installed in the planning of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u37	...which makes the people feel better if you can't even connect to him. Mr. Villares, with all due respect, look what I'm interested in, the problem you have every day is that you have fewer people than you care about. Don't worry, the president of the board, while you're still a spokesman, at least of yourself, you're going to keep paying attention. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Let's turn to Mr. Leicega's question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u39	Silence! Silence! Quiet, let's find out what's going on. What's the point, Mrs. Pontón?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u40	In the exercise of the democratic rights which this Regulation gives us and which are therefore part of the framework which all Members and Members must respect, there is a provision in Article 77.2 that says that at any time the debate may be asked to read a document to clarify a matter. So, as we're being accused of lying here and the EPA data say there's more stops and more busy, I ask the Presidency of Parliament to read this report where they are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u41	That's what I'll have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u42	...the EPA data on busy women, stopped women and activities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u43	I'll get that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u44	Because it's very serious for the president to defame himself cheerfully...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u46	...session after session. So I ask you to read these documents.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. I know that article. Thank you. Question by Mr Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Sorry! The regulation states that at any time such an observation may be requested. And all I did was pick her up. That's what the regulation says. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, sorry, we're not going to discuss this. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! This is no administration, it's the regulation. No, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not going to discuss this. I was the only one who took a paper, a document that was handed to me. The evaluation of that document will then be made by the Presidency. But in principle, I heed the regulation, and the regulation envisages that and point. Theme is over. You have no further discussion on this matter. [[Applause]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the availability by the Government of Greek politics to the extent that the older people deserve
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u48	Mr. Leicega, your question, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u49	I don't know if I have to ask Mr. Tellado too to start. But in any case, I would like to clarify to the students at the school that primary school is not done in schools, so they stay calm. [[Applause]] No, no. [[Applause]] Mr. President, there are 670,000 people in Galicia over 65 years old, and surely most, as the CIS points out, voted for you. But you also have to know they're angry. Many are mobilized; in any case, disturbing, perplexing, because, in a context of continued economic recovery for more than three or four years, their needs have not been met. Pensions need to be financially sustainable in the medium and long term, we all know, but they also have to be mostly socially and politically sustainable, and for that they have to be fair and have to be worthy; they have to do justice to a lifetime of effort and they have to make it possible to live dignifiedly for the last few years of life. And that's what makes them also sustainable. The pensioners are angry with Mr. Rajoy because it turns out that, year after year, after selling the economic recovery that Spain is having — which is undeniable — its pension rises by 0.25%, year after year. And do you know what that means, Mr. Feijóo? That if a pensioner starts to charge a thousand euros at 65, when he reaches 85, with a 2% inflation, his pension would be 700 euros real; that is, he has a 30% loss of purchasing power, at the moment he needs it most. That's absolutely unacceptable for us. And in Galicia this drift is more worrisome, because average pensions, as it is well known, are among the lowest in Spain. Lugo and Ourense are the only Spanish provinces in which the average pension, on 1 February 2018, is below 700 euros. And for pensioners over 80, the average pension is around 600 euros a month, and for women, less. This situation seems unacceptable to us. I'd like to see the president of the Galician Council also tell us that it is an unacceptable situation and that he will do everything possible to revalue pensions according to the IPC and that he also explained to us what he intends to do so that that that position may be majority in his party and, therefore, ensure that the Government he supports will be there. But we also talk about their direct responsibilities in relation to policies for older people. The pensioners in Galicia tell us what, when we talk to them -- we also have older people who are not our party, who are familiar with many of us -- is that it's impossible to find a place in a residence; they tell us that, after eight years, it's very difficult to get a place in a still private residence. You can tell this Parliament how many public squares of autonomy there are in residences in Galicia; you can tell you that waiting lists for public residences, or public funding, in Galicia, exceed the number of squares that are available; you can tell you that we have concerted or public squares under Spanish autonomous communities; and you can tell you that we would need 12,000 more squares, including private ones, to be on the ratio that WHO recommends 5%; and this ratio, by course, is covered in some autonomous communities, such as Castela-Leon, governed by the People's Party, but also in Asturias, in Estremadura, or in Castela-A Mancha. It is therefore possible to do so, Mr. President. To find a place in a public residence is today, in the Autonomous Galicia, a chemera; to find a concerted place is an impossible mission; and in a private one is expensive and very difficult. So this is the horizon he's offering to the Greek pensioners in his responsibility. It's up to you, after eight years of government. You promised a year ago seven new residences in the urban areas of Galicia. Can you also explain to us what happened in 2017 and what you plan to do in 2018? Because in budgets we don't see any euro for this, and that makes us terribly concerned. So, Mr. Feijóo, you have to tell us how the seven promised public residences went forward one year ago in the time up to now and what you intend to do in the coming months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u50	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, before high school there is primary school, Mr. Leicega, and before there are even childhood schools; so what we did was to move from 12,000 squares of children's schools to 24,000 squares of children's schools. That's exactly what we did. [[Applause]] Your Honor, the question begins well, first a socialist accepts that economic recovery is obvious, which means that we had to recover the economy after the governments of the Socialist Party. And then you also come to say, Your Honor, that you come to worry about the biggest ones, which is also, without any doubt, something very interesting, because the left in this country -- I'm sorry, because you shouldn't hear this as directly involved -- especially the nationalist and breakaway left, which always says is that the People's Party wins the elections because they vote for us the biggest ones, and now it turns out that the biggest ones are worried on the left. [[Applause]] Welcome! [[Murmurs.]] Let's talk about the big ones. We are talking about 24% of the population of Galicia, which for us is undoubtedly a key factor in our policies, economic and social. Let's talk about it, Your Honor. We have more resources for the policies of older than ever in any budget of the Galician Union in thirty years. There is an additional attention record number on the dependency that Galicia has never had since the dependency law was approved. We have the largest network of public squares or publicly funded since the autonomous community exists, and we will continue to promote active aging. Your Honor, only with a data could you answer: what are you doing for the elders? When you ruled, in full economic goodness, budgeted, 213 million euros. Now, still out of the crisis, 413 million euros -- that is, 93.5 percent more than when you were ruling. This is the first answer, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Watched squares: when you were in the government, 14,000 dependents; now, 55,593; that is, four times more. Coverage ratio of the national average: Your Honor, we have a coverage ratio depending on 83.5%; in Spain, 75.9. [[Applause]] And priority in professional services in the face of economic benefits: almost 12 points more than the average of Spain; teleassistion, Home Help, Dinner at Home, Digital Programme. Do you know there's no waiting list, for example, for teleassistation? Do you know that there are governments of the Power Tides and the Socialist Party who don't use the hours we fund at Home, who just use them, they don't ask them, they don't ask them, they don't ask them, they don't care about their biggest money? Look, Your Honor, residences — you tell me about them — So we've raised 59% more squares. When we get to the government, 6,900; now, 11,100; 59% more. Before July, we're going to open another 180 squares, and in this legislation we have the commitment of 900 more squares. That's the result, Mr. Leicega. What have we done during this time? First of all, agree with the municipalities to be able to build. Do you know there are municipalities that don't have a general urban management plan? And the next thing we're going to do is bid them this year 2018. Therefore, Your Honor, of course I am concerned about pensions, especially lower pensions, and that is why lower pensions — like widowers’ pensions — have to rise above what the Government proposes. But yesterday you voted "no" to the state budget where pensions are going to increase above 0.25%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u52	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u53	Yes, Your Honor, not even the one approved by the State's budgets, no matter how they are presented. This House is amazing, before you know the state budget, the answer is voting no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u55	You could abstain, you could say, we'll look at you at the next session. No, what we want to do in those assumptions is, for 56% of the Greeks, to increase above 0.25; that is, for 56% of the Greeks, to increase around the IPC and for 10% of the Greeks who are paying the income tax on pensions -- 70% don't pay anymore -- to lower their taxes. Mr. Leicega, now I'm sure you can explain to me why you frozen your pensions in 2011.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u57	Isn't it true that you in 2011 wouldn't ask the question you just asked? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u59	Mr. Núñez Feijóo, you live too fast, because we haven't voted for the GNP yet, I don't know if you know. [[Laughter]] We are going to vote today, and you have the opportunity to negotiate with us our amendment, which says that we present the Government of the State an budget to the Congress of Members who collects much of the things we are demanding, including the automatic re-evaluation of pensions and an investment commitment to Galicia of 1,300 million euros. I'll fix you with us that PNL and we'll vote in favour of it. [[Applause]] But what you can't ask is that we support an budget that doesn't know everybody, because it's not yet approved by the Council of Ministers, and we have the impression that it's going to make a substantial cut in pensions for most pensioners, with a 0.25% revaluation. You can't ask us that. And, Mr. Feijóo, of the residence squares, he didn't tell us how many of them are autonomously held right now. I'll give you the number they gave us in your reply: 1,397 squares. That's what the Board officially says in its reply. 1,397! [[Mr. Fernández Leicega shows a document.]] But that's not what's important, what's important is what you're going to do. [[Applause]] Since 13 months he has promised these residence squares, and it turns out that in this year's budget there is no more place, except for enlargement in Sardinia-Cotobad; there is no other reference in the 2018 budget. And the bigger ones, the bigger ones without resources, depend on their heritage or on their families to be able to pay the private residence squares, which are the only available and which are far above their pensions. So to avoid that tax to undeclared seniors that you have with that residency policy, we have to come to an agreement. I ask you to press Mr. Rajoy to accept the revaluation of all pensions and create a framework in the suitable Toledo Pact that allows the medium- and long-term public pension system to be maintained and that he pushes a residence plan with 50 million a year. By the way, that tenth indebtedness that last year would not be used and at the end of the year would enable these 900 residence squares — seven — to be built, to maintain that effort four years and to quickly promote an additional concertation of 1,000 squares, which means 12 million euros a year, to lower the waiting list quickly and to meet the needs of those who have less resources as pensioners. That's what you have to do, Mr. Feijóo. And now you can't tell me that I don't know what's going on in 2011. In the Zapatero Government, the revaluation of pensions has greatly surpassed all that the Rajoy Government has done in the last five years; very widely; very, very widely. And that's what to do and what to measure, Mr. Noñez Feijóo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u60	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Leicega, since you defend Mr. Zapatero, I'm just going to explain to the Greeks what Mr. Zapatero has done. The first thing the first President of the Government made of a Spanish democracy was to freeze pensions — first decision. The second decision was to increase the retirement age from 65 to 67 years. [[Murmurs.]] And the third one, increasing the period of calculation of pensions from 15 to 20 years. You will understand that all these economic policy measures I will not criticize them, but, of course, you will understand that if this is really what the Socialist Party feels proud of, because with all due respect... the People's Party has not done it! Do you know why, Your Honor? Because then there were politicians who took the pensions seriously and there were politicians who discussed pensions in the Toledo Pact. You should listen to what your partner Almunia said yesterday, that some pension should know. If you listen to him now, his intervention, he would say: this gentleman is not from that Socialist Party who took State affairs seriously. Yes, Mr. Leicega, I'm sorry to say so, but in your intervention state affairs you're not taking them seriously. You're not taking them seriously, because you're hiding that when the IPC went down, despite that, the pensions kept going up — moderately, undoubtedly —. But in 2014, the IPC dropped one point and the pensions went up a quarter. And in 2015, the IPC was zero and the pensions continued to rise a quarter. And in 2013, Your Honor, the IPC went up 0.30, and the pensions went up between 1% and 2%. All this, why does the Socialist Party hide it in the House? Why did he hide that despite falling the IPC, pensions continued to increase, even if it was a quarter point? Why do you hide the House, Your Honor, that for every pensioner you entered, there were 7 more unemployed every day? Why, Your Honor? When we got to the government, it was on the contrary, for each pensioner, there are six more jobs. That's the pension policy, that's the policy to look at the Greeks in their face and eyes and not deceive them, Mr. Leicega. And you must not deceive them, you must not deceive them, Mr. Leicega, because pensions are a very serious matter, and the Socialist Party, until Mr. Sánchez arrived, was a very serious party with pensions. [[Murmurs.]] Unfortunately, now it's gone, and I'm sorry, because I thought you were still participating in the social democratic culture of a party that was key to maintaining pensions in Spain. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you may be missed every day. If for each new pensioner, when you pressed the "yes" button to the budget, if you lost 7 jobs and now for each new pensioner six jobs are created in Galicia, don't you think that what we're doing is just making the pension system viable? [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Leicega, you mustn't intoxicate the Greeks by saying that the Greeks, because they are from Ourense and Lugo, charge less pensions than the rest. You know that's inappropriate for an economist like you. Pensions have nothing to do with the territory, Mr. Leicega, pensions have to do with people's contributions, living where they live, and I think that's not worth it to the good faith Greeks, Mr. Leicega. Mr. Leicega, with all due respect, I don't mind talking about pensions, on the contrary, I think you have to raise pensions about the IPC, lower pensions and widow's pensions, and that's 56% of the Greeks. I think we have to get the IRPF down on pensions; 70% of the Greeks don't pay for it anymore, and now it's 80% of the Greeks who don't pay for it. In 2018, Your Honor, for most of the Greeks, the pensions will rise approximately the IPC. That's the answer. There will be other very high pensions that will not be able to rise according to the IPC. Does it seem to you that the very high pensions, which are above the average wage that are charging the Greeks in active employment, should go up? Do you think that proposal to ensure the viability of pensions?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u63	Your Honor, the world backwards. We're pulling low- and middle-income, and you're pulling high-income. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. It's just that I have two issues, because I'm going to read an institutional statement and I want them to be present. It's to warn you that I'd like you to be the people who come today on behalf of the schools. I'm just asking for that. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Leicega?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u65	Yes, Article 77(2), first invoked. It is also to give you a document, in this case of the Ministry of Health and Social Security, which shows that the average pensions in Lugo and Ourense are below 700 euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u66	I'll evaluate the reading. Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] It's okay, it's covered by the Rules of Procedure, gentlemen. It's absolute quiet. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u67	We're going to read an institutional statement, and I appreciate the sensitivity of all the groups to accept yesterday's proposal. Quiet, please. It's a statement I think we should all pay attention to. "Today, March 21, in celebration of World Down Syndrome Day, the Galician Parliament is in line with the request of the United Nations General Assembly to increase public awareness of the reality and needs of people with this genetic disorder. The Galician Parliament encourages all public institutions, entities and private organizations and civil society in general to strive to improve the quality of life of people with Down syndrome, including health care, early care, inclusive education, labour integration, research, exercise of rights, in particular, to guarantee their right to suffrage and equal opportunities. We remember that the life expectancy of people with Down's syndrome has nearly multiplied by five since the beginning of the 20th century; a particular hopeful fact which in time attests to the enormous usefulness of the measures aimed at improving the quality of life of these people. However, despite the improvements that have been made, it remains essential to bet on inclusive measures aimed at facilitating the integration of employment and at stimulating the autonomy of these people, targets for which public resources are a determining factor. Of course, this Parliament's bet is firm, and it won't go back. The Galician Parliament expresses its appreciation to all the collectives and organizations that work in the field of the care and promotion of people with Down syndrome and urges the whole of society to actively engage to overcome hypothetical prejudices and to overcome current dysfunctions." [[Approved by consent.]] Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u68	We continue with the agenda, with the non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People, at the initiative of Mr José González Vázquez and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Union of Galicia to the Central Government, as well as to the Greek municipalities through the Fegamp, in relation to the return of tax on the increase in the value of urban land unduly charged
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u69	There are amendments to the Parlia­mentary Group on the Environment and the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u70	Mr. González Vázquez has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Before we come to the issue that we are debating today in this non-law proposal, I would like to point out that through politics — and I think we will all agree here — we must defend the rights and interests of citizens, and of course also in the tax field. What we must not in any case be using our parliamentary prerogatives to defend vandalists, ladies and gentlemen. Our work has to be the defence of citizens' rights, and this determines that we cannot agree with any of us — of course, my parliamentary group is not — that if we are obliged to pay the Greeks a local tax, the municipal surplus value, in cases that have been declared unconstitutional; that is, when you sell an urban property with losses. Although we have already brought this issue to Parliament on various occasions, and by the various parliamentary groups, we are going to refresh the concepts to make everyone clear what we are discussing. What's this municipal surplus? Well, we're talking about a local tax that's technically called "value increase tax" -- as the president said -- "urban land." It is regulated in the Consolidated Text of the Law regulating local farms, and it is a power tax. What does that mean? They don't have all the municipalities. In Galicia they apply this tax 115 municipalities. They would mainly be the urban municipalities of Galicia, the seven cities and the headquarters of the region. To realize the importance of their numbers, and with data from 2015, Galicia collected a total of 41 million euros for municipal surpluses. In 2016, 47 million euros. 70% of the surplus value, i.e. 28 million euros, lies in the seven main cities of Galicia. Highlight here Vigo, with an average in the last three years of 9,600,000 euros each year. He's been following the city of Coruña, which in the last three years has raised 20 million euros for the surplus. What's the record of this tax? Ladies and gentlemen, this tax increases the value that urban lands experience and is manifested in the event of their transmission, even by inheritance. And how is this increase calculated? Here's the key to the problem, here's where the problem is. The quantification of this tax is done objectively, taking into account the cadastral value and the period of stay in the assets of the immovable property of which it transmits, regardless of whether it is earned or lost in the sale. Let's take an example. Real sale of an apartment in the city of Vigo in 2017 for 150,000 euros. This apartment was bought in 2007 for 200,000 euros. I mean, they lost in sale 50,000 euros. There's a loss of wealth. For the citizen who had this loss had to pay municipal surplus value in the Vigo Town Hall for 3,840 euros. I mean, we paid the bonus even though on sale we had experienced a loss. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what the Constitutional Court declares unconstitutional in a judgement of May 11, 2017. What the Constitutional Court says is that, if there is no capital gain, you can't afford the surplus. This is the case with the example we have just reported. This problem of loss of sales has increased in recent years, because the real estate crisis has brought with it a widespread loss of the value of urban real estate. If we consider, ladies and gentlemen, the average period of residence of an immovable in the heritage of the Greeks, which may be between 10 and 12 years of age, we have that most of the properties that are being sold today were bought in the high season, between 2000 and 2005. Therefore, an important part of those who now sell their real estate is losing, and in the municipalities where there is surplus value they have to pay, which — I repeat — has been declared unconstitutional by the Court. Who are they who are affected by the sentence? Look, we have to consider that there is an important part of the affected who are those who, because of the difficulties of paying their mortgage, had to spoil their apartment — there were losses, surely — and, however, in the cities of Galicia had to pay surplus. In short, they are affected and therefore they are those we have to defend those who have paid the bonus, even if they have sold their property with loss, but on a condition: that they have not prescribed their right — I will explain this with more arrest. The important thing here is that taxpayers in these cases are four years old to claim the return of improperly charged surpluses, and, if they don't do so in those four years, ladies, they lose their right. That's why we think we need to provide information on this problem. And I'll talk about the data on the number of people it affects. To make ourselves an idea, given that the limitation period is four years, today, on 21 March 2018, the right to claim the return of those who filed the tax is being extinguished on 21 March 2014. If any of you had an issue of these on March 21, 2014, you're going to file the complaint today because if you don't, if you extinguish your right, you lose your right. With data from the tax collector Tinsa, who did a study in this area, at the May 2017 date — which is when the Constitutional Court judgment appears — we have 550,000 citizens affected in Spain as a whole; gentlemen, more than 2,000 million euros of surplus value unduly charged in Spain as a result of 3,000 euros per citizen affected. But, besides, since 2017, they have continued to sell housing for loss; therefore, there are more affected than Tinsa said. With the same Tinsa data, in Galicia those affected between May 2013 and May 2017 are 18,300. If we take into account what he said before 2017 is still selling for loss, there will be five or six thousand more affected. Furthermore, every day that passes, the oldest ones are losing their right, because if they go extinct, they may already be affected that they have lost their right to claim — approximately 4,000 Greeks and Greeks, who have lost that right. The majority of sales for loss — with Tinsa’s data — grow in the provinces of Coruña — have about 50% because there are the three major cities: Coruña, Santiago and Ferrol — and Pontevedra, with 30%. Within the province of Pontevedra, it has affected the municipality of Vigo 4,000 citizens in the last four years; that is, 4,000 Greeks and Greeks from the municipality of Vigo who sold for loss and who had to pay the surplus. Ladies and gentlemen, every day between 15 and 20 Greeks who don't claim lose their right to seek a refund in the course of the prescription period. We have to work to defend them. Given that the average amount per person affected would be around EUR 3,000, we are talking about 50 million or 60 million of improperly charged surpluses, mostly by the cities of Greece, and that must be returned to those citizens. What do affected citizens have to do? Look, there's no return of office by the Town Councils. The Councils cannot make the return of office — and we will have an opportunity, in turn, to talk about it. The initiative must be taken by the taxpayers affected by a request for undue income. And there they will have the right to return unpredicted cases; i.e. those within the last four years, starting from the end of the deadline for submission of self-liquidation, which is when we pay the surplus value; we have four years. That's why it's very important to complain before prescription occurs, and it's very important to inform affected citizens. What is the objective of our LNP? This isn't a partisan issue, it's an objective to defend taxpayers. You have to make the return — and this has no doubt — of the council that unduly earned the surplus. But, in addition, we asked in point 2 of our PNL, first, that the municipalities, working with Fegamp, report on the citizenship of the right to assist them to claim the refund of the undue value charged, and also to inform them that they are four years old; that they collect, that they quantify in the memory of the budgets, what is the amount they are going to have to deal with for the return. It is also very important that, as long as the legislative situation is not resolved since the Constitutional Court judgement, they do not cover cases in which there are sales to loss. And this is easy to prove: purchase writing, 200,000 euros, sale writing, 150,000 euros, there's a loss; we can't charge 3,840 euros to that taxpayer. We also ask — as we have already asked in a previous non-law proposal — to enable axillary mechanisms to proceed with the return, avoiding conflict in this area. We don't take people to the courts, we give them back what's theirs. Look, at the first point we also went to the Spanish Government so that, if necessary, the municipalities can afford the return to the rest of the positive treasury they have. Look, we're not going to come in here if we have to give the rest to other questions. But let's not forget that some of these remnants correspond to a tax unduly charged to citizens, so it seems to us of justice that can be used to return. Ladies and gentlemen, I've made it right now. This non-law proposal is an initiative, indeed, in the defence of the rights of the citizens of Greece — like any other one we have brought to this House concerning immigrants in third countries, which we are seeing these days giving us reason in the proposal made by our party — that they have unduly paid a tax that now has to be returned to them. We — I believe that all parliamentary groups — cannot defend an action by the public authorities that prevents citizens from claiming their right, especially, ladies and gentlemen, indeed, because the non-demanding in time brings with it the extinction of the right. On the margins of discussions about local funding or which administration has to bear the cost of the error, the fundamental thing is to safeguard the taxpayer's rights. And I will conclude by saying that since my parliamentary group we will always defend the correct application of tax legislation, even in those cases where those who must return the unduly charged are the rapporteur, in this case, the municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u72	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, today the People's Party is bringing us an initiative that is a bit of a touch. On the one hand, let's plant the tax refund on the increase in the value of urban land unduly charged. I would like to remind you that this issue has been addressed in Commission 1st, Commission 3rd and adopted in plenary on 12 July 2017, precisely the proposal of the People's Party. In the same proposal, it was requested to request the legislative amendment to adapt it to the judgments of the Constitutional Court and to request from the Greek Councils the authorization of the mechanisms to return the taxpayers affected by the amounts unduly collected. But on the other hand, it also brings us the reinvestment of surpluses generated by the municipalities themselves, which was also addressed in Commission 3a, in a PNL, on 7 April, carried out by our parliamentary group and approved unanimously; in a later question, on 19 May; and in a PNL brought by the People's Party itself on 8 September, which was also adopted, with a text which says that the German Government is urged to carry out the necessary legislative changes to allow the municipalities to use surplus within the limits set by European budgetary stability legislation. But it is much more curious, it seems, that in the Commission 3rd, which was developed last week, on 16 March, this parliamentary group again brought a GNP to the House's approval of the agreement reached by the FEMMP, in the person of its president, and the Government of the State, in the person of the Minister Cristobal Montoro. And the Welsh PP voted against it. The truth is, it's pretty curious. We don't know what the reasons are. They may not like that the president of the FEMP, a legal representative of all Spanish municipalities, and of course, of all the Greek municipalities, had reached an agreement with the People's Party Minister, Cristóbal Montoro, without you having any intervention. And I would like to remind you that the president of FEMP has made an agreement which has been adopted by all political groups; therefore, by the Group of the People's Party too. They may also not like the municipalities to have autonomy; they may also not like that the municipalities do not need the guardianship of the Galician Union; or they may also not understand that the local governments of the Greek municipalities are autonomous to apply the policies they have been legally elected by their neighbours; or they may also not want 480 million euros to be used to meet the needs of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] These can be the only reasons that can lead the People's Party to vote against, and they can also do so today by not accepting our amendment. But, look, the facts are that five months after the unanimous approval of the PNL discussed in this plenary session and brought by the People's Party, there was no news. We already know that the interlocution is not being very flowing between the P.P. of Nuñez Feijóo and the P.P. of Mariano Rajoy. But it is also true that the President of the FEMP has asked — on repeated occasions — a meeting with the Minister Montoro to resolve this problem, without any answer being obtained. But, look, on February 14, 2018, the municipal representatives publicly stated that their patience was already exhausted and therefore the FEMP, through its president, threatened to undertake powerful actions. So two months after this request from the President of FEMP to Minister Montoro to solve these problems, but three hours after the announcement of mobilizations, Minister Montoro had adjourned and called on the President of FEMP to solve this problem. The People's Party is afraid of losing votes and is afraid of mobilizations because it's the only way it understands, and therefore the only way it meets, to meet the logical and legitimate demands of any collective. The same will happen to public pensions, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because that war is going to win in the street. We're gonna win it in the street! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] It's also true that they have to rectify, because in the face of the women's elite demonstrations, which we went out on the street to claim our rights, you also had to rectify. Well, the agreement reached by the President of the FEMP and the Minister Montoro was to extend the investments financially sustainable to educational, social, cultural, sporting and safety and civil protection infrastructures and to adopt in 20 days the enabling decree to make this agreement effective; an agreement which was also concluded by 300 elected officials who attended the Cumio of mayors and mayors who had previously been summoned by the FEMP. Fegamp, also through its president, joined these protests by demonstrating that Mr. Rajoy's People's Party's Government employs the municipalities as if they were bankers and limits its autonomy to spend on financially sustainable investments without being able to meet, for example, social policies, at times when many need it, since we are still leaving the crisis, and where many have been abandoned by the Government of Galicia and the Government of the State. So this is a government that is committed to the precariousization of employment and public services and that prioritizes to match accounts before caring for people. Not enough with this, we have a president of the Galician Union who shows his bet on municipality saying that he fears that this action may become a new E plan. Again a clear manifestation of the popular party's municipalism bet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u75	The amendment tabled by our group — if I shall finish right now, Mr President —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u76	But look at the clock, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u77	...reproduces textually the agreement reached between the FEMP and the Minister Montoro. I ask you, is the PP of Núñez Feijóo going against the legitimate agreements of the Greek and Spanish municipalities? Or are you going to go against the agreements of the People's Party Minister and Rajoy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u79	Or are you going to go against the Town Councils...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u81	...or that 470 million...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u83	...used sex...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u85	...for the Greeks and the Greeks? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u86	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u87	Good morning to all of you. Mr People's Party, do you remember that on 7 April 2017, I put forward an initiative on this issue — almost a year ago — in the 3rd Commission, and you did not support that proposal or amended it in such a way that we could approve it? So, of course, we are on the side of the taxpayers, who were the ones who were wrongly charged, and of course we are in favour of them being resisted, but I wanted to comment on some contradiction that is seen in their initiative. The question is clear, successive judgments. Our initiative already referred to a judgment on Euskadi's special rule, but it was the same text as the state, and they didn't vary. Obviously, the judgements to which responsibility is attributed are to the legislator; that is, to the state, and you in your intervention and in your motion for a resolution bear the ink against the Town Councils. No, no, the Constitutional Court at any time points to no wrongdoing of the councils during these years, points to responsibility for the legislator, the State. We therefore believe that, being the responsibility of the state legislator, it is also up to the State to compensate the municipalities for the refund of the tax unduly charged, and much more so if you do not want to talk about what happened with the funding of the municipalities in this country over the last few years, what happened with the taxes on immovable property and what you have done by imposing far more efforts than the local government itself. I warn contradictions because you in the explanatory statement say that the articles of determination of the impossible basis are unconstitutional and therefore null, so there is no penalty for tax based on them, not even in those cases where the values of the land were increased during the tenacious time by the taxpayer. But, on the other hand, you propose that in the declarations by the plusvalia which are presented from the Constitutional Court's judgment and in respect of which the existence of a loss of assets is believed to exist, there should be no collection of the tax in application of that judgment. I mean, something or something, whether you charge or not. You are saying in the motion for a resolution that it is covered only in those cases where value increases are shown, and in the explanatory statement you say they are null and therefore cannot be applied. It's a contradiction. Then you also draw attention to the urgency of the legislative amendment, the request for it, and the fact that, in the motion for a resolution, there is no need for that urgent legislative amendment again. Legislative change is not approved. We request in our amendment that they be amended, that the Royal Decree on Law 2/2004 be amended, in the articles referred to in the judgments of the Constitutional Court. I don't think he's left in that case. And we also ask in our amendment that, of course, the councils proceed to return the unduly charged, but that the State compensates the municipalities for that. We believe that it is also fair; we believe that, of course, the Constitutional Court's judgment is clear, implicitly conferring responsibility on the legislator; and that therefore corresponds to that. We are then surprised — and we are not surprised — that you at the first point say that the use of the remaining positive treasury is allowed to return these amounts. There were councils that during the worst years of the crisis had treasure remains and could not use it for social services, for dependence and to help people who needed it most, and you never asked for the use of that treasure remnant for those basic needs. They put the bank debt on top of people's living conditions. So you don't just have to allow that remnant to be used for these things, what you have to do is to repeal the Budget Stability Act and you have to repeal the amended article, 135 of the Constitution, which has put the interests of the banks forward, by agreeing, of course, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, the payment of debt, above the needs of people. There were municipalities in this country with perennial needs for their neighbours who could not use those remnants for their needs. So we'd like this to be applied here in the case of people's needs. And you say, we don't take people to the courts, we pay them before... totally agree. Precisely, what you did with the compensation for the annulment of the Bipartite wind contest. Knowing that they had to pay, they had spent years letting him go to the one who had the right to go to the courts, and you knew that. For years you did this: knowing they had to return, they forced people to go to court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u88	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u89	Thank you, President. Good morning. We must thank Mr. González for his pedagogical effort at his exhibition; we recommend that he make a tutorial to explain this subject on Youtube. What happens is that we also propose some corrections, because I don't know if this "vandalist" is a terminology innovation, a neologism that you've created now, or not, but well, you should correct that. And, of course, you should also complete your presentation by referring to the Government of the State, because you have a lot of responsibility on this issue, as we will see in the resolution of this issue, as this plenary has already proposed in agreements, for example, of the 12th of the 7th of 2017. So it seems to us, therefore, that this is a rather inconceivable, somewhat incoherent proposal, which also reveals a problem that we have already expressed here of a certain discoordination and lack of communication with the Madrid People's Party. Because, of course, you have a one-way communication with the Madrid People's Party: it's to receive orders, as we saw yesterday in the case of AP-9; but to send you messages there, it doesn't seem to work. So I don't know if I'm going to set up an app group with the president of Congress or Mr. Rajoy to send him the People's Party proposals there, because it doesn't seem to pay much attention to him or they don't know. Because, of course, it turns out that on 9 March the People's Party registered in the Parliament of the State, in Congress, a bill to reform, amend, the recast text of the Act of local estates on this issue, with regard to the taxation of surplus value. Without time it wasn't, the truth!, without time it wasn't, because ten months ago this Constitutional Court judgement was produced and the truth is that it's going quite slow, given the concern that you have for that fair return, and people, of course, have to receive that money that you paid and that you didn't have to pay. But, of course, to resolve this, the State, that the Government, that the Congress of Deputies — sorry, that Congress, which is no longer "two Members" — needs to approve this legal amendment. A change they've already made, by the way, the outside Basque deputations. They should — a little — take note and learn from this example, since they were very agile to comply with those judgments of the Constitutional Court; or of the Foral Community of Navarre, which also approved it in December 2017 and which made a proceeding. Because, of course, here the fundamental thing is that by means of this legal amendment you make a procedure that then the municipalities will have to apply; it can't be that one municipality applies one and another applies another, if not, that's a galimate, that doesn't make sense and that's a discharge. So be serious and tell the Government of the State to approve this legal amendment at once. This is one of the issues that are under discussion here, but there is another that also seems very important to us, and is that you at no time worry about the procedure of compensation to the municipalities, because, indeed, the councils will stop entering an important money — you think you said, in the case of cities, that it was 40 or 50 million euros, or 50 or 60 million euros — and the logical thing is that there is compensation on the part of the state, because the municipalities have no blame for losing that money because of an incorrect application of a state law. In addition, in this very explanatory statement of the text — I don't know if you do not have it; if not, I offer it to the President to bring it to you, or I give it directly — he says that this is a temporary amendment and that a reform of the local farm law is under discussion to correct precisely the underfinancing of the municipalities. And let's also hope that another fundamental issue will be corrected, which is the discrimination of the Greek municipalities. Therefore, the BNG will not support this initiative because it does not meet the requirements that we find fundamental in order to be able to approve it: first, that this legal amendment is being made to the Government of the State and that it is being done as soon as possible so that this question is not being resolved indefinitely that citizenship has the right to return that money. Secondly, another issue that seems fundamental to us is compensation to the municipalities, which must also be approved and which must deal with the State's ark, logically. And thirdly, the amendment of that legal framework set out in the Budget Stability Act and in the reform of Article 135 of the Constitution, which had the consequences that it had and that we believe that we should change precisely by adopting measures that end this economic asphyxiation of the municipalities and the discrimination of the Greek municipalities. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u91	Good morning again. Mr Bará, thank you very much for your linguistic appreciation. Corrigendum: We cannot and must not use the parliamentary prerogatives to defend those who carry out vandal acts. Is that better? Yeah? Well, it's already rectified. I'm sure we all agree, Mr Bará, sure. [[Applause]] Then, another thing: about oratory lessons and all this, I'll take it into consideration next time for you to teach me some classes. Thank you very much for your appreciation. I say, look, everything you've talked about, do you think you'll worry about something about the 2,000 or 3,000 citizens of Pontevedra you, your county, unduly earned the surplus? Because you have to worry about them. Don't worry, Mr. Sánchez, that I liked your speech, and then I'll answer, don't worry. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But look, there are two things in this LNP that are new about the previous ones — of course, we do not repeat the LNPs; I will now clarify them. There's one, which is, if the surplus value is unduly charged and if you lose the right to four years, over the course of four years, why don't we inform the citizens? Why aren't the municipalities giving them that information? Do you have offices in Pontevedra to inform citizens? Is there office in Vigo to inform citizens? In Coruña, in Ourense? I don't care which city, I don't care. But are you reporting? No, no, no, no. And the second... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u92	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u93	Man, don't kidnap my parliamentary activity, let me expose myself because, if not, there's no way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u94	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u95	May I continue?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u96	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u97	Mrs. Rumbo, let's see, we say here that the municipal surplus... we don't come in here to discuss—which is something else—the possible use in other areas, what they can agree on at the central government level; we say that, if it is necessary for something that we consider fundamental, that it is to respect the rights of the taxpayers, to use that surplus, that they are allowed to use, because it is not forgotten that part of the surplus corresponds to the surplus unduly collected, in some municipalities an important part of that surplus. It should not be forgotten, for example, that in Vigo nine and a half million euros each year of that surplus correspond to the bonus unduly charged. I'm sure it doesn't matter to the 4,000 Greeks who have already lost their right to claim the bonus, among other things because they're not properly informed. And, Mr. Sánchez, your speech today is technically an appropriate speech, you said the things you've always defended from the very first moment. What he didn't say is that we didn't support his first initiative among other things because it was not technically correct. I've told you a lot of times in the debate, I've told you that the Town Councils can't return it on their own. We are not here either to defend whether it has to be the state or it has to be the Town Hall that pays the economic cost of this. What we're defending is the taxpayers who were unduly taxed, and what we're saying is, we're defending all those contributors, we're preventing them from losing their right to claim and we can get the municipalities to pay them what they've been wrongly charged. I ask you, isn't it important that the municipalities give publicity to the possibility that citizens have to claim? Isn't it important, Mr. Sánchez, that since May 2017 the municipalities have stopped charging the undue value charged? You spoke of a contradiction. There's no such contradiction in the explanatory statement, and I'll explain. Let's see, what the Constitutional Court's ruling says is that no surplus can be charged in cases of loss. If I see the floor for 150,000 and it cost me 200,000, I can't charge the bonus. And the municipalities are charging. But besides, there are courts below the Constitutional Court that don't even allow them to charge the bonus even if there was profit. And I say, isn't it pure logic that we all here tell the Greek municipalities that they don't cover in these cases? Isn't it pure logic? Why do you say, then, that you will vote against this initiative that the only thing you want — I repeat — is to defend the rights of citizens? And I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u98	About the amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u99	In relation to the amendments, we will not accept any of them; that of the Socialist Party because it has absolutely no agreement with what is required here, and that of En Marea because it is repetitive and, in addition, because it refers to certain things that are already being done. The amendment, as Mr Bará has well reported, is already in the Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u100	Thank you very much. We're being visited by students at Tino Grandio School, from Guntín, Lugo. Welcome to Parliament, too. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the execution of the pending sections of the high capacity route Costa Norte
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u101	No amendments were tabled. Mr. Pérez Seco has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u102	Thank you, President. I'd like to begin by greeting the mayor of Cariño, the spokesperson for the San Sadurniño Town Hall and neighbors of San Sadurniño, as well as the students who accompany us now. The construction of the high-capacity VAC North Coast route was announced in 2001 — 17 years ago, no less — by the works councillor — by then Mr. Cuña Crespo. He announced the construction of this road with a clear vocation, to vertebrate and improve the mobility and competitiveness of the neighbours and neighbors of the districts of Ferrolterra and Ortegal, in the province of Coruña, and of the region of Marine, in the province of Lugo. However, it was not until 2009, with the government of Mr. Touriño, when they began the works of the first stretch, the variant of Ortigueira, and the San Cibrao-Viveiro plot was bided. That same year, the promise of the People's Party and Mr Feijóo — which promised no longer a corridor but the northern highway, Ferrol-San Cibrao — was going to be in operation in 2012. Six years later they did nothing but inaugurate the only two sections that are currently in service: the Ortigueira variant, in July 2013, and the San Cibrao-Viveiro frame, in January 2017. This communication infrastructure is called to integrate into our country's high-performance network the comarcas of Ferrolterra, Ortegal and The Navy are lit, so it will be, once finished, an infrastructure that will have as potential beneficiaries more than 300,000 people, which will directly or indirectly benefit from this route. Not only will the mobility of people benefit from the work, but the mobility of goods from all the productive tissue located in these areas — which includes, inter alia, the fisheries sector, forestry, mining, transport, textile, food and tourism — will benefit from this infrastructure. As stated earlier, the Government of the People's Party and Mr. Feijóo have done nothing to advance the works, no one more meter has been expropriated or one more euro has been executed for nine years. I'm going to report to you a series of meetings that had municipal representatives and the autonomous administration. On 29 October 2015 the mayors of the Ortegal district summoned all the affected municipal residents and celebrated the first meeting in the Ortigueira Town Hall with the objective of testing the political environment, in which all the municipalities agreed to move forward and request a meeting with the councillor. On 12 November 2015, a meeting held in the Council of the Vice-President, where representatives of seventeen municipalities were present. It was a first contact with the advisor, who came to put the sale before the wound and indicating that they would amend their own budgets for the year 2016 — at any stage of processing — so as to include a EUR 400,000 share that would be devoted to expropriations in the San Sadurniño-Sanguineira tranche. And, as it was expected, today no one meter was expropriated. On 22 April 2016, all the parties were reconvened, this time in the Council of Cariño — the councillor, the provincial delegates of the Junta de Galicia, at that time, Mr. Calvo Pouso and Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, and the representatives of sixteen municipalities of all political colors — and on the previous day, 21 April, they drew a new rabbit from the joke. They published in the DOG the contract tendering for expropriations in the subtreito San Sadurniño-Sanguineira. The deadline for bidders ended on May 6, and none of this is known. At this same meeting it was agreed to form a follow-up commission of the project, which would consist of a mayor of each county and of every political color: Second Garcia, mayor of San Sadurniño, by BNG and by Ferrolterra; Miguel Alonso, mayor of Cariño, by PSdeG and Ortegal; and Jesús Novo, mayor of the Vice-President, by PP and the Navy, in addition to two representatives of the Council itself. This commission has never been convened despite the fact that the mayor of Cariño has called for the meeting on different occasions. In February 2018 the meeting was in the administrative building of the Galician board in Ferrol, where the advisor promises to fix some curves of AC-862 and to include forward-looking routes, without that influencing the running of the high-capacity track. This looks like a coat of hair. Moreover, he states that the bridge over the river of Viveiro is consensual, at the time when the mayor of Viveiro, Maria Loureiro, rejects the advisor right there. They didn't talk to the Living Town Hall about how the project could be and even heard from the press the days before. As always, another rabbit in the sleeve. On 7 March 2018 the contract of service for the drafting of the construction project and improvement of the capacity and safety of AC-862 is published in the DOG, third AG-64-A Ponte de Mera. The term of execution is two years, another coat of hair. [[Applause]] On 8 March 2018 the contract of service for the drafting of the information study, environmental impact and project for the construction and updating of the North Coast VAC is published in the DOG, third AG-64 from San Sadurniño to San Sanguineira, and the drafting of the information study and the environmental impact study of the new bridge on the river of Viveiro and the connection of VAC North Costa to LU-540. The deadline is another two years. By the way, I would like to mention the link of the Ortegal Peninsula with this infrastructure, which has always been contemplated, even in the previous plan, in the Plan Move of the former advisor, Mr. Hernández. But on the map that they presented to the mayors a few days ago, there were lines that were unsolicited, we don't know what they mean -- if it's hidden, if it doesn't appear -- what would be a serious marginalization for the county of Cariño and for the towns of the town of Ortigueira that are part of this peninsula. But the most serious thing is that the Union itself would be refusing to communicate correctly the autonomous port of the council of Cariño, which, according to the words of the president of Ports in Commission 8th last week, this port of Cariño is what moves the largest number of commercial goods in Galicia, 530,000 tons in the last year. Twenty-five percent of the goods moving on the commercial autonomous docks are made from the port of Cariño. I mean, it's the most important port in the movement of goods all over Galicia and it doesn't have a good road communication. You don't understand, you'll agree with me that you don't understand. The Ferrol-San Cibrao VAC is a fundamental artery for the development of the Ortegal and Marine communities. It is a priority to strengthen the VAC in order to get out of the situation of economic weakness by boosting trade in one of the most abandoned districts in Galicia. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia therefore submits the following non-legislative proposal: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to: 1. To bid in 2018, and as a matter of urgency, the contract of the project corresponding to the following sections: San Sadurniño-AG-64-Campo do Hospital, Campo do Hospital-Seoane, Spasante-O Barqueiro and O Barqueiro-Covas. 2. To bid in 2018 the construction of the Covas-Celeiro frame, to be completed in 2020. 3. Include in the 2019 budgets the necessary departures for the construction and development of the construction works of the San Sadurniño-AG-64-Campo de Hospital, Campo do Hospital-Seoane, Spasante-O Barqueiro and O Barqueiro-Covas, so that they can be completed in 2021." Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u103	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. Mr. José Luís Rivas Cruz has the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. "One step forward and one step back, Galicia/ and the fabric of your dreams does not move. - The spree in your eyes is flashing. - Aran the woods and rain." We're on the day of poetry and it comes to the story, because "the woods and rain" is the perfect phrase, the perfect verse, to mean the time and quiet of this country. Because by the end of the 20th century, in the reign of Mr Aznar, from Galicia, and to save him money, Don Manuel decided — a geographical coup d'état — to pass the transcantabrica through Vilalba, turning this village, Vilalba, into a new capital of the known world. And to me, as a chaplain, it's not that it bothers me that Vilalba covers protagonistism, rather the contrary. What bothers me, and seems intolerable, is that it is the cost of the incommunicado of an area that has long needed a minimum of attention on the part of the Government — and I don't say which one to be the two. Because the transcantabrica, which would be vertebrate since AP-9, in Ferrol, the districts of Ortegal, Ferrolterra and The Navy, which was stolen in that blow by the Chairego command and transformed into an inner highway with a "promise apology" in exchange for that invention called "high-capacity road", has been waiting for hundreds of years. Fómento saved a lot of money at the expense of the Welsh people's party-captained sub-missions. Junta promised and churned a path, which would be almost better than a bus, and in Madrid they escaped to laugh once more of this "autonomous", so understanding it. Go, go! Being mayor of Ferrol friend Xaime Bello, a wide range of municipalities, institutions and coordinated entities around the Commonwealth of Ferrolterra show his goat. And the pressure in the area is materialized in a corridor project that remains, at the time of the Bipartite, ready for judgment. But he's done with his hammering machine and it's all up to nothing. Of course, in 2011, Don Agustín Hernández promises in Ortigueira that he will arrive from Ferrol to Ortigueira in 2016. And as early as April 2016, in Cariño -- yes, dear, but with a deceptive love -- the current advisor tells the northern living forces to start with a planning of the works in a reasonable time. He must have forgotten, because a few days ago he returned to visit the living forces of the north to say the same thing as in 2016 — repetition of the game. And aren't they looking for a way to leave the VAC in a simple arrangement of the current firm, on a general road, making it some other stretch of which aesthetic surgery? This story I could tell you in a more technical but not less true way, because the matter of disgust, disgusted by the hair boot that has been constantly being done since the administration to the northern population of the country. If we add to him the one about Fever, with his potential and his neglect and deterioration, the ridicule is complete. It is disgusting because, perhaps, for the coming year — which is an election year — a course is being proposed — by chance, San Sadurniño-Sanguineira, who is accidentally governed by the mayor and mayor of the BNG, and could end up for the autonomic elections of 2020. With the same caramel they could try to camel twice. At the beginning of 2004, Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, who is sitting there today — he feels — denied to representatives of various political, social and trade union organizations of these districts the need for the coastal corridor, even defending it as an alternative to the current road arrangements. It was surprising that, after a few months of the constitution of the Bipartite, an unusual PP mobilization campaign had appeared, denouncing the delay in the execution of the works, and demanding the results of a government which, curiously, was precisely the legacy of a project that did not go through the first administrative procedures. Oh, what days of the demanding PP! Have you retired? Believe me, the matter is serious and people are up to their hats -- not to say anything else that would solve them again. And the comarcas need decent communication that reinforces the future, because this whole chain of deceptions and breach of commitments and deadlines in the execution of this infrastructure has harmful effects for the present and future of the districts of Ferrolterra, Eume, Ortegal and The Navy, with the communicative and economic isolation of this socio-economic area, where basic productive sectors — forestry, fishing, agribusiness — and industrial enclaves such as Navantia, Alcoa, Megasa, or the external port of Ferrol or Celeiro, are located, by name of the most prominent. So since the BNG we're going to support this initiative, even though point 2 has its own, because it's not yet the constructive project done and it's been the plot of this subject of discussion for years and it's not solved yet. Even so, we will vote in favour of shame, which you, the People's Party, do not feel. Promises, promises, and a joke and a continued deception. "People of the North, that the gods give you wrath, that patience you have enough." Or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u105	Thank you, Mr. Rivas Cruz. On the part of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Marcos Cal Ogongo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u106	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all and to all. From the Parliamentary Group of En Marea we will support this initiative to try to unlock the paralysis in which the People's Party is installed in relation to the infrastructures on the north coast, where, like greenwood, everything and smoke, many headlines, many advertisements, but ultimately the fact is that the infrastructures on the north coast have, since the People's Party is settling in the Government of Galicia, totally paralysed. We are going to support this initiative because we are aware of the need for a better vertebration for the comarcas of the Cantabrian coast, which is one of the great forgotten government, abandoned by the Greek administration but also by the State administration. Anyway, where the People's Party is paralysing in the advance of the infrastructures on the north coast is the norm. Not only have they moved forward in the North VAC since they arrived in the German Government, they're not pushing A-74 either. He went out in the press these days: "The People's Party converts his promise from a Ferrol-San Cibrao bus to 2012 into an arrangement of the current road." "The northern highway Ferrol-San Cibrao, put into service in 2012," said Mr. Feijóo in 2009 in the election campaign. Now they're going to make an arrangement on the road. The People's Party, like the green wood, everything is smoke, there's no reality. I don't know what your plan is for this area, if you leave it incommunicado, if you leave it as an area free of opportunities and economic and social development, if you leave it with 19th century infrastructures that don't work in many cases. Because it's not just on the highways and on the road network the problem we have in that area. We have the railway problem. You left the railroad, the old line of Febe, which last year had more than nine hundred incidences, 30% of the incidences of the surrounding state. And that's, in the end, actually loading an infrastructure. Therefore, neither VAC nor railway, and the conventional roads totally damaged. That's the reality right now, the real map of this area that didn't have investments from the People's Party during all these years. But we didn't say so. These days the newspapers were full of news, and that's why yesterday's Minister of Development came, like Santa Claus, to announce a lot of investments. National VI, in poor condition; National 634, in poor condition — because we are going to the whole area of Lugo, which is extensible to what is happening in the north zone—; to 642, in poor condition; to section 120, Spain's most dangerous according to RACE, and to the Government of the State it seems that road safety is not important there, I don't know whether it's because it's in Galicia or why it's, but on the most dangerous road across the state, Development has no intention of doing anything. Even last year the Ministry of the Interior pushed a plan to solve the problems of black spots, and having the highest concentration of black spots in the state road network, the highest concentration, the central government decided that in Galicia there should not be such interventions. This is reality, abandonment and disillusionment. "Lugo sinks between hunchbacks"—not said In Marea, it's going out in the newspapers—; "A-6 dissipates in Lugo," "The A-6 highway between Lugo and León in critical state, almost intransitable"—not said in Marea, it's going out in the newspapers all these days—. And that's why the Minister of Development has come to announce that he's going to make a number of investments in Galicia, because there's obvious social pressure in front of all these years of abandonment. But, of course, the problem is that Mr. Feijóo supports the investment of Development — which, if I am not mistaken, is about 100 million euros, more or less, what he announced yesterday — but forgets that from 2014 until 2017 Fomento has not executed in the province of Lugo 2,400 million euros. He was missing last night in a dress like Santa Claus. And, as anyone brought gifts, it brought 100 million euros, which at no point solve the huge problem we have in that area. And what is the problem in the answer that the Galician Union is having in front of Development? Many ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party know how the business world works. When you want to do a negotiation, if whoever sells you comes to sell misery, what you can't do is slap him in the back and say they're doing a great job. Because, of course, we will continue to lose. Well, that's the action that the Galician Union is having with the Government of the State: palms on its back and submission in front of Galician abandonment. And so they're clearing our roads. Look, Mrs Ethel Vázquez came to announce the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan in 2018, because she cares a lot and is now doing a tour and selling headlines — which is what you do, selling smoke. And if it hasn't yet gone to Lugo, which I don't know, if it hasn't yet gone to the north coast, I think it's better to recommend it not to go. What is needed for road safety is that the railway works, which is the safest means of transport, in addition to the most sustainable, that roads are arranged and that high-capacity roads become operational. Less headlines, less smoke and a little more reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u108	Thank you, President. Good morning, and a greeting to the people who accompany us from the Ortegal area. We're talking about infrastructure in the north of Lugo, where the cars should be circulated, wait, with all the mirror mirrors. We're still waiting for the People's Group to take these measures to return the dignity to the House. Indeed, we share with the rest of the opposition groups the importance and transcendence to the north of Galicia of this route of high benefits of the north coast, which, together with A-74, the A-8 and AG-64 highway, will structure this entire northern territory of Galicia. I'll try to explain why we consider your GNP inappropriate, and I'll focus on three main lines: there's already an ongoing plan, it goes against, in some cases, even the proposals and requests of the municipalities themselves, and it's, of course, technically and temporarily as improbable. At this point, as the PSOE spokesman well remembered, there are two sections of something more than 16 kilometers already in service — the Ortigueira variant, open to traffic in 2013, and the third Celero-San Cibrao, in 2017, as Mr. Pérez Seco well remembered. What you forgot to say is that these works were paid entirely during the government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. And we still want to see how many euros they actually put into four years of government in this area. The euro is certified and paid, do you know how many it was? [[Applause]] It was 100 million euros at the time of the biggest economic crisis that Spain and Galicia suffered, which we were also left with by PSOE. But money is invested when the People's Party rules. In any case, in order to continue progressing in this infrastructure, there is obviously a need to solve important social, technical and economic difficulties, of course! And that's why it's a complicated work, as you've seen in each of the tranches you want to do. And for that we need a global strategy, realistic, dialogue, shared and consistent with the rest of the administrations and citizens. And that's what you're working on. On March 1st, the councillor presented this plan to the mayors of the district of Ferrol, Ortegal and The Navy, to explain these steps in order to solve these difficulties, serious difficulties. Because it is a complicated territory for these infrastructures and, as seen in the proposals that we have been making these years, they generate important social problems that need to be solved among all. Well, to try to solve this, you're going to work on two speeds, on two lines: in the short term, to move forward on this track, and also to improve the rest of the infrastructures in the Ferrol, Ortegal and The Navy are shining, because, of course, you have to go parallelly improving and fixing some of these infrastructures as you continue to advance along the high-performance pathway. In this way of high-performance, as they said, a proposal has recently been made to build a new bridge over the River of Viveiro, understanding that it is a possible, viable, efficient solution that causes less problems. It can be a solution as it was in other areas, such as Ribadeo, Girl or other cases that we have in Galicia. It's right now in that environmental impact study and it can be a solution. And it's just that society in general, the municipalities and the rest of the representatives bring all alternative solutions, proposed constructively. What we regret is that these internal struggles of the PSOE do not allow them to coincide in this case with their mayor of Viveiro, when a few days ago it asked for heights of look and that they push the interests of citizens rather than the political interests. And that's what I think is necessary in complicated works. It is a pity that in this case they do not follow their mayor of Life, because this second point—as Mr. Rivas said—and even the first one, are technically impossible. So, either you're proposing to do the work that has the approved plot, and that counts with the opposition of the socialist council of Viveiro, or you're proposing that in two years a bridge be made which is still in environmental impact. Put on demagogy! Choose which of the two options: either go against your mayor or open up new possibilities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u110	In any case, Junta will continue to work — and I'm done — on these infrastructures, but without demagoxies, with realism, with possible deadlines and budgets. The figures are absolutely impossible. In trams where there's even no project it's impossible to be running in the coming year works that don't even have the approved project, as you well know. I'm done. The three reasons that make it impossible are: a short, medium and long-term strategy is already in place, and spoken to counsel and citizenship, they go against the demands of some of the municipalities, and it's technically unfeasible, in terms of time and also budget. What this LNP proposes would prevent any other work from being done in Galicia next year, including the signatures of Mr. En Marea. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u111	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. You have the floor, by the non-legislation panel, Mr. Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u112	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the support of the groups of the Nationalist Block Galego and En Marea. And then, Mr Fernández, when we present this initiative, what we have moved to the Galician Parliament is the concern of the neighbours of the Ortegal and the Navy. The councillor said not much ago in this Parliament, in one of his appearances, that the opposition did not put him to his duty. We have taken an initiative to lay down duties for you, and to which you were able to submit an amendment to the deadlines of the Council to put in place the infrastructure that is missing, so necessary for the regions of Ferrolterra and the Navy. And if the plot of the Viveiro Bridge doesn't agree with the Town Hall, you can make other arrangements so that you can no longer dilate the time of this infrastructure so necessary for the neighbours and neighbors of the districts of Ferrolterra, Ortegal and The Navy. And I'm asking them to stop fooling the neighbors and neighbors of the Ortegal and the Navy communities. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez Seco. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the development by the Greek Government of legal actions appropriate for the return to the public heritage of the palace of Meirás and other goods by the current owner family, as well as the action to be carried out in connection with the sale of the palace
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u114	This motion for a non-law was tabled three amendments: a self-amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block, another of the Galician Socialists' Parliamentary Group and one of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of his Concepción Burgo López, through the spokesman and the author of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative amendment.Replacement amendment.In the resolution of the initiative the content of point 1 should be replaced by the following text:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1. To urge the Government of the State to put in place all appropriate administrative and judicial actions to achieve the restoration of possession and of its own accord for the public heritage of the Peace of Meirás, and to commit the Union of Galicia to cooperate as necessary."]] [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr Luís Bará Torres and at the expense of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits the following amendment to this non-law proposal.Additional amendment.Add a new point, which would be 1 (the others would turn to 2 and 3))]] )), with the following text: "1. To urge the Galician Union to demand from the State to carry out the appropriate administrative and legal actions for the effects of possessional recovery and of its own accord for the public heritage of the Peace of Meirás, and to this end to compromise the collaboration of the Galician Union."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u115	Mr Bará Torres has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u116	Thank you, President. Today is the World Day of Poetry, but the truth is that this issue has to do with prose, prose politics, poetic prose and also ethics. We are talking, forty-two years after the death of the dictator and forty years after the approval of the Constitution, of the heritage of the Franco family in Galicia, of the palace of Meiraes, of the Cornide House, of the sculptures of the Portico da Gloria, which were acquired by illicit means or dubious legality. It's proven that they were the result of the robbery, a big robbery, a big robbery. It was a war booty, in a war context, in a context of coercion, in a context of terror, fear, blackmail, in the 36s, 37s, 38s and 39s; with the collaboration of the corrupt elites, who were also beneficiaries of the regime. And I also want to make a reference here to the fact that those personalities of these corrupt elites still enjoy honours and distinctions in the city of Coruña. It was a booty of war but actually it was much more than that, it was the result of a large-scale corruption operation with continued use, not only in those early years but throughout the entire dictatorship, for decades, of the State Administration to benefit the dictator and his family. It was possible by this complicity of state structures, during the dictatorship, but also after the dictatorship, during the Transition and during the constitutional monarchy. And we have to watch the realities, which still survive, as hard to explain in the civilized world as the fact that the Franco family continues to enjoy, for example, noble titles such as the Duke of Franco or the Lord of Meirás. They're real indignities, they're a shame. And all this because, as the dictator said, there was a blunder and everything was "sticky and well tied," tied and well tied to those pacts also of silence and impunity of the Transition. And yesterday we had a new episode in Congress, when the amnesty law reform was vetoed. That impunity for the crimes of franchiseism continues. There was this complicity during the Transition and then, and also by the Galician Union — in the People's Party government — with regard to the Franco family, so it was even subsidised with €53,730 the opening of the Meirás palace. I mean, they gave the Franco family €53,730 to open the palace, which was something they had to do by legal obligation. Well, this makes it obvious that the People's Party, all this time, has had a warm stance, an ambiguous stance, which, on the other hand, is perfectly consistent with the position that the People's Party has in relation to historical memory and frankness over all these years. Of course, it seems bad to you that we accused them of permissiveness and complicity, but they haven't just disbanded themselves, they haven't just placed themselves on the side of democracy, truth, justice and reparation. And it's not enough to condemn frankism -- that's a good thing, it's a rhetorical statement -- you have to practice with the example. And above all, we have to practice with the example of respect for the victims and their families. But for the victims of franchise, not for the victims of the Blue Division. Because you're more worried about the victims of the Blue Division than the victims of franchise. Now we're really in a new time on this issue, we're in a cycle shift about frankism and, above all, the privileges of the Franco family. It's a reality, there's an unstoppable movement, a social cry that explodes now, but it comes from behind, which has its background. And I want to make here a recognition of the struggle and commitment of many people, and especially of the Commission for the Recovery of the Historical Memory of the Crown — against which it was, in the years 2003, 2004, 2005, carrying this flag Manolo Monje — or of the Town Hall of Sada, especially in the government of the BNG in the years 2007 and 2011, when things began to move about the Passover of Meirás. Also because there was the BNG in the Government of the Union and then the BIC declaration was achieved, which was a first step — with the frontal opposition, by the truth, of the Franco family and also of the People's Party. And it was key — and I also want to highlight it here — the research carried out by Carlos Babío and Manuel Pérez Lorenzo in the book, recently published by the Galician Foundation Always, Meirás, a palace, a caudillo, a copio, which was the most powerful demonstration of the theft, with official documentation. So, we are at a turning point that broke out in August 2017 when the Franco Foundation announces the intention to manage Meirades' visits, with those public statements that we already know of the apologetics of dictatorship and dictator, and when such a powerful response is produced from society and institutions, on the initiative of the Council of the Crown, the Councils of the Province of Coruña and the institutions of memory, to create the Joint Pro Return and work for the return of the peace of Meiras and other properties to the public heritage. And the People's Party and the Galician Union, of course, in that context, there's nothing left to move fixed. And so they approved the creation of this commission of experts. But the months that have passed are that we are again with that strategy of the People's Party to approve agreements to cool down, to fall asleep, to postpone and to try to cover up the problems, and to spend the time seeing if you forget again. And by the way, there came the intention — another joke, another provocation — of the Franco family to try to sell the palace of Meiraes, another new irregularity. And as this happened, the Crown Deputy did its duties — and he did well — with this historical report based precisely on the investigation of Babío and Pérez Lorenzo, and also on the legal report coordinated by Professor Xabier Ferreira. Here, of course, is an absolutely clear and powerful demonstration of what has happened. And what happened was a robbery and therefore this heritage cannot continue to belong to the Franco family. There is an overwhelming amount of data demonstrating the spolio, the theft, the machining — with this simulated sale of the year 1941 — the use by Xefature of the State of the palace of Meirás as official residence and the use of large amounts of public funds for the purchase, for the expansion of property and for reform. And I'm going to give you just one example that demonstrates this. When this simulated sale was made in 1941, the Meirás palace had an area of 5 acres, and at the end of the dictatorship it turned out that it had 9 acres. For all those expansions of the property were made with public money and with the coercion of public bodies. And so it's an absolutely clear demonstration that it's a property that must be of public heritage. As I said, the Deputy of the Crown has taken a step forward with that proposal of agreement that goes this Friday to the full of the Deputy of the Crown, which is supported by all groups, including the People's Party. And our proposal for an agreement that we bring here will be based on that agreement proposed unanimously in the Parliament of the Crown. We're going to give up and we're going to withdraw point 2 and 3 for consensus, because there's already a prior agreement in the Council of the Crown. We are going to propose that you approve this text that we bring here, that you urge the Government of the State, the Government of the State, to develop all actions to recover for the public heritage the palace of Meirás. It seems to us, of course, a reasonable and reasoned proposal. And also, therefore, we think that it is best not to debate and not to take account of the tide amendments — which in another context would seem perfectly reasonable and would certainly be well received. But, I say, with that desire to reach an agreement, we will bring here exclusively — if the other groups accept — the proposal put forward at the plenary session of the Council. I mean, she's also supported by the People's Party. Let's hope that there will be this coherence of the People's Party here today too to support that agreement. I'm done saying we need to end at once with that island of impunity which is Meirás, which are all properties and goods — not only Meirás — stolen by the Franco family. We have recently seen the case of the sculptures of the Portico da Gloria, also the case of the Cornide House — and they are not the only ones —. We need to end that real black pit of democracy that is Meirás, with that historical anomaly. We need to do it by decency, by hygiene, by collective dignity. And we definitely need to start untiring what's tied up. And if we succeed, of course, it will be a great victory of democracy and a great symbolic defeat of fascism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u117	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. I give the floor to Mrs Burgo López from the Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u118	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr Bará is right, we're in a new time. We are in a new time and, in addition, for the first time we see the light, we see a possibility of having a way out for what we have always maintained as a historical anomaly and, of course, a democratic anomaly, an idea that it has stuck in society. We also agree in that sense, it's not the times before, now society, the whole society, wants to end with this historical anomaly. We socialists, we've always kept it, and we did it here in this Chamber and also in full, that there were possibilities to find a way to declare this property illegitimate, which is what we had to do. I mean, to look for the way it was declared illegitimate, because it is illegitimate, because there was more historical evidence than enough to declare it illegitimate and to seek an exit; an exit, of course, legal. And that exit I think we have it right now, because the historical report, signed by Mr. Emilio Brandio, and the legal report, by Mr. Xabier Ferreira, which commissioned the Deputy of the Crown along with the Joint Pro-Devolution of Peace, gives the way out. That is why we believe, Mr Bará, that this initiative — at its original initiative — is clearly far overshadowed by events, its original. Of course, so superimposed is that you have to self-amend, and I imagine you will accept our amendment. Because our amendment is exactly what the MP is asking for, which you now say is what you defend. Then I imagine our amendment will also be accepted. She's overwhelmed by the events too — allow me, Mr Bará — because we believe there's a way out right now. I would like, if I have time, to give a summary. But the legal report gives a solution: it has to be the Government of the State, the Government in Madrid, which urges the National Heritage to find a solution. I mean, now the role is in National Heritage and State Government. You put things like this, Mr Bará, I think it's time to come to covenants, I think it's time for the agreement, for everyone to agree, not for anyone to come before, not for those who put the medal, but for us all to come to a solution. Because in the MP they were able to reach all groups, and you know that this report was presented here and you know that the MP asked all groups to support that report. [[Applause]] I sincerely believe that it would have been much more reasonable for us to speak first of all of the groups, which, after this motion was adopted in the Deputy, we could come to sign — I would like it to be so — a proposal not of joint law, which has also been made in this Parliament. Because I think that would give us even more legitimacy to demand the Government of Spain to ask for and to do everything necessary to restore the Peace of Meirás to the public domain, and not now to keep this proposal not of law. I'm basically saying this because, of course, I'm sure you also talked to the MP, and all the MP groups have conveyed to us this need for consensus, to be together, because it's our strength against the government in Madrid. I also hope that the People's Party will agree with Mr. Agustín Hernández that this is necessary, and that it will also support him, because we will need all the support, and of course the People's Party, to demand the People's Party in Madrid to do what it has to do. From that point of view, we, of course, support it, because we believe that it is necessary to end this historical anomaly and that Meirás has to return to the public domain, which is the moment, that we have a solution and that we can do it, and do it fundamentally among all of us, because it is not important that we arrive before but that we all arrive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Today is indeed the day of poetry. And although it is true what Mr Bará said that the subject is very proselyte, I want to devote a few seconds to opening the doors to freedom of thought, creation and expression, opening the doors of dialogue, diversity and protection to our threatened language, opening the doors that open the poetry itself, the visual arts, painting, music and the scenic arts, opening the door to question even what words we use and why, and respecting, above all, the different ways to perceive and interpret reality. I think it is a day to be blessed, it is a day to be blessed because there is unanimity — this issue is important for unanimity of all and all Democrats who have historical and democratic memory — to be blessed because consciousness is there for dignity, for reparation, for justice and for truth, indeed. If we think we share, if we know and if we read this 87-page report, which is very good and we actually agree on the need to socialize it, but, however, we also amend, and we amend with consistency and with arguments. We think and do not understand why and that prevents our amendment from moving forward in this common way subscribed by all groups, recognizing the value of all memorialists, recognizing the value of all the people who have made contributions and recognizing the value of the United Nations Peace Returns Board as well, and even of all the people who are today jumping so that the peace of Meiraes goes to public property. That's what you're asking. So we believe that coordination between all administrations, between the state administration, the autonomous administration, the administration of the Crown and the Sada Town Hall is essential. We also believe in the very important need to include State Counsel in the Commission. We believe this is a crucial issue. Also the Union for Return itself. We believe that human and material resources must be provided. For what? So that your saying is as good as possible and in the shortest possible time, and in good condition, so that the arguments are solid. Because the goal is really this question of moving from public property to public property. Then, in the case of consolidation that the property of the palace was public before the public writing was granted in 1941 — 24th of the 5 — of course, for the purpose of nullifying this title, to which it was considered the exclusive owner, who was Manuela Esteban Collantes, would no longer have the possibility of selling something that was not her. And the case of considering Franco's buyer doesn't make much sense either, because we know -- and there are documentation -- that he didn't pay the palace, that paid it, as explained earlier, with forced occupations and obligations. It was a cop, a war booty. Our amendments go through, firstly, that through coordinated action with the administrations, Joine exercises, participates or coadjugates the appropriate legal channels to incorporate the peace of Meirás into the public heritage. Secondly, it provides the commission of experts created to study the legal avenues of the so-called return of the necessary means, materials and humans, to develop their actions in the best possible way, so that they can present their dictation as soon as possible. The Spanish State is asked to incorporate the State's counsel into the Committee of Experts on the Return of Peace of Meirás, as well as the Joint Pro Return, for the purpose of studying and coming from the appropriate administrative and judicial actions to be undertaken. (b)As a result of the legal conclusions of the reports issued within the said commission and meeting, and in the light of the existing documentary evidence, of conformity with the coordinated legal strategy, previously pointed out, between the different administrations, what is intended, and the object of this amendment, is its reversal and incorporation into the public heritage and its subsequent agreed destination for public financial use. We believe these amendments are what they do to help improve the proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block, which we naturally applaud. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u121	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u122	Thank you, President. Good morning, the difference between the public and the private, even in the street, is a lesson we should have learned at home. Just like the difference between public representation and the private sphere. But when someone in this House confuses and mixes these concepts and attitudes, what is lacking in the respect and dignity of all of us, of the whole Greek people. Mr Bará, we already know that you would love to work in the Ministry of Truth to be able to rewrite the story. That's why every time he goes up here, he tries to link PP to franchise. You follow in your late-franquism speech, which in the meantime we work. And we work exactly in the mandate this House is carrying out. We are working, for example, on a commission to conduct a judicial study with the aim of incorporating Meirás towers into the public heritage. This mandate, out of this House and on which I suppose you all agree, is based on three pillars: analyzing possibilities, determining mechanisms and not assuming an economic cost for the Greeks. This commission was set up in November 2017, and they participate in it, under the chairmanship of the Professor of Contemporary History of the University of Santiago Xosé Manuel Núñez Seixas, a person of recognized prestige, representatives of the Council of Galicia, of the Greek universities, of the College of Notaries, of the College of Registrars and of the Council of Sanda; and subsequently, a representative of the Deputy of the Crown was also incorporated. As you can see, it is a wide, plural commission, diverse from voices and areas, where each participating institution freely designated its representative. And freely they are working, without guidelines or indications, and with all the means at their disposal, as I asked in Marea. The commission is recompiling, studying the existing documentation and, as its chairman said, fine-tuning the arguments, because the complexity of this study lies in the legal formula, the dispersion of the documentation, the relevant documentation to do so, and in the will of the heirs. From the absolute point of view of the committee's work, we hope to have a full report indicating what the relevant actions must be carried out so that Meirás towers become public domain. Our goal must be that, but not as a political partisan goal, but as a collective political goal of the country. This is what the People's Party defends, here and in any institution in which we participate, also in the Crown Deputy, also in the Town Hall of Santiago. But we're not going into the races, as Mrs. Burgo said, in the reports races, in counter-reports, because sometimes the rushes are bad advisors. We must be careful, we must act prudently. And we don't say so, the chairman of the committee himself, Mr. Noñez Seixas. Referring to the possible sale of the palace, he says: "You must not be alarmed, since, as a BIC, the Union has rights that it can exercise—Cultural Heritage Law." Or, referring to the real possibility of conquering the palace, he said, "I don't put forward the arguments we're handling, because revealing the possible legal arguments would be counterproductive." So we have to have and make a call to calm down, because at the moment we decide to exercise legal actions we can't go wrong. It would be catastrophic to embark on a path that does not lead to success, that processal failure has closed the possibility of reaching the peace of Meirás to the public. That path to follow must come out of the report of the Committee of Experts, which we all, ladies and gentlemen, must assume unanimously. Because, Mr Bará, and Mr. Lords of the opposition groups, what are the legal actions you ask to interfere with? Who against whom should those actions be exercised? I don't know if Mr. Bará or any of you have a privileged information about Mrs. Franco's will, or if you have contacts with the heirs to know what they're going to do with inheritance. We, of course, don't. But if you know something, you should share it with the committee of experts, as did the Deputy of the Crown, who will forward the report to the committee. We understand that it is a very positive attitude of the Crown Deputy to put to the service of the commission all the information and documentation he owns. Now, you can't pretend that we assume the meaning of the Deputy's report. Don't get me wrong, we're not questioning the report. But it is logical that the guidelines that follow in this process should be drawn up from the report of the committee of experts set up by this House — that is coherence, Mr Bará — which may or may not coincide with this or other reports. But if you think that the path to follow is what the report of the Crown Deputy says, encourage your fellow Members of the Crown, because also the MP is legitimized to interpose how many legal actions it considers relevant. Mr. Bará, call Mrs. Sanmartín and tell her to act. I insist, we must not forget the objective shared by all of us: the recovery for the public domain of the palace of Meirás without costing the Greeks a euro. I repeat: we consider it essential that the report issued by the committee of experts be accepted by all members of this House without any cracks. I expect the loyalty and coherence of all opposition groups towards the report coming out of the expert committee. And I'm done. Let us let the commission work respecting its times, facilitating its work and supporting its conclusions. That's why we believe this non-law proposal is not timely right now, even the Nationalist Block of Galicia has had to be self-amended, and now, right now, it rejects both points on which the proposal itself was based not on law. Mr. Bará, I think you also think it's out of time and place. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u124	It seems that the Socialist Party was more upset than the BNG presented this initiative, and that it also renounced the proposals it had included in its non-law proposal, for the sake of consensus, that the Council of Galicia would want to go again with rositas, it seems to him more concerned than it was the BNG. [[Applause]] The Socialist Party was also able to do it, to be the one who brought this issue here to debate. Look, the proposals that BNG makes in its non-law proposal we think they have full vigency, both the one that makes reference to the fact that the Galician Union acts and undertakes all legal actions because it is a BIC, which therefore the Galician Union has the obligation and responsibility to ensure the recovery of that good, and also has full vigil the fact that it opens a file on the sale of the BIC, also has full vigency. What happens is that we prefer that the debate now focus on the agreement adopted unanimously in the Council of Ministers, and that is why we have made a self-amendment, we do not give up the other issues, and we will take them to debate when needed, just as we believe appropriate and relevant the amendments of En Marea. By the way, they respect our proposal very much, but they're substitution amendments. To respect, if you propose another agreement, it might be an addition. But well, they're substitutes, okay. We think they're reasonable and timely, but now is not the time to debate that, because what we're bringing here is the agreement unanimously adopted by the Crown Deputies and all groups, and we want to put the People's Party back in front of the mirror and let it be clear what your stance is, because you're upset that we're telling you that they haven't just broken with that legacy, but the facts, every day, show that. And we're not going to repeat here how many times you have renounced the public policies of historical memory, which humiliated the victims, who voted below all the programs, all the policies: the island of San Simón, the project of names and voices, ended up everything, destroyed everything, with the program of digging pits. You worry about bringing the soldier from the Blue Division, but don't worry about bringing money to dig up the pits. So we ask them to be consistent with what they preach. So what's clear here is that you say something in the Crown Deputy, but when you get here, they're no longer worth it. It must be that Mr. Hernández's historical memory is more probable than the lords of the People's Party who are sitting here. We regret, in fact, that they are not consistent, that they do not support this agreement. We think it's a reasonable agreement, which is, in addition, based on a difficult historical and legal report to overcome and which clearly marks a path to recovery of that good. And what is said here is absolutely reasonable: "To urge the Council of Galicia to demand from the State to carry out the appropriate administrative and legal actions for the purposes of the restoration of possession and of its own accord for the public heritage of the palace of Meirás, and to that end compromise the collaboration of the Union.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh What's wrong with this deal, what's wrong with them? A unanimous accord of the Crown Deputies after all the groups gave up on matters, too, which might seem important to them. This is the proposal we bring here. They say, therefore, whether they agree or not, and they withdraw once from their positions and their complicities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u125	Thank you, Mr Bará. The students at the Salesian School in Lugo are now with us, and we welcome them to Parliament. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the design and transfer to the Parliament of Galicia a new forest plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u126	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u127	Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u128	Thank you, President. Welcome to the Salesian students of Lugo, too. Today the Greek Government lives behind its mountains and its agricultural fabric. The old model of use of the mountain, as the basis of agricultural activity, broke down at the end of the last century, during the process of dynamizing the rural Galician, which is always accompanied by the incantation of the People's Party. Along with this has disappeared, too, our way of relating to the mountain, and today, sadly, the death of this mountain is assumed by our society both in the economic and social, cultural or environmental aspects. But one thing is clear, this is not the result of chance, this is due to a planning of the policies of the People's Party, which is to work for the capital, for the interests of the outside and for the big companies that deprecate everything they're taking forward. How did they get it, among other things with the eucalyptus. They worked for companies and poured our middle into a process of degradation that turned rural Galician into agrarian desert in favor of a forest monoculture based on eucalyptus or pine. Where is the multifunctionality of our mountains, where do you boast so much? Where is that real transformation industry? Where did that added value, which generates income, settle population in our rural environment? They're not, they're not, and their policies have had the opposite effect, deserting, tearing apart, not just our environment, but the social and economic Galicia. So, where does this lead us? By spending hundreds of millions of euros on extinguishing forest fires or trying to return the damage caused by these, which are nothing more than a consequence of their model, the model of the current Montes CEO, Mr. Couto. The Galaga de Monte e Industria Association, the Provincial Association of Entrepreneurs of the First Transformation of Madeira of Lugo, Faramaga, the Cluster of Madeira and the Galician Design, the Federation of Carpentry and Ebanisteria of Galicia, Serfoga, the Galician Forest Association, Asemfo Galicia, Asefoga, Promagal, are associations and companies that are not suspected of being manipulated by this political organization at all, they know what they say, they know because you too sent this document. I'm going to refresh your memory and read literally: "In numerous previous meetings, and through different channels, we put ourselves at the disposal of the Union to collaborate in the revision of the Galician Forest Plan capable of generating the highest values for the Greek society, for the forest owners, for the joint ventures or for their businesses and their industry. A review of the Forest Plan that will be able to take advantage of the opportunities of the coming years and respond effectively to the challenges and problems it faces. Because we are committed to all this, our duty is to express our profound discrepancy in how to address the development of the draft reform of the Forest Plan. We consider its elaboration to be a major deficiency. Firstly, the sector was not consulted at the stage of drawing up the draft. As reflected in the Rural Media Council website, measure 4 proposed to maintain a working group as an advisory body that had reviewed and monitored the drafting of the Forest Plan. This didn't happen, we were deceived by Together. Measure 5 indicates the need to compile supplementary reports on the supply and demand of wood to achieve a more accurate and less uncertain analysis of the timber resource. However, strategic analysis is not the right one, and a strategic plan is needed that contemplates a much more rigorous analysis. As a result of this measure 4, by not involving the chain in the elaboration of it, through the working group, a draft is presented that is neither of consensus nor the result of an analysis or discussion with the sector. We understand that the Galician Forest Plan must be a strategic document that must count not only on the involvement of all these agents involved in the forest sector, but also on all political forces, academics and society in general, which has not happened until now. It would be tremendously irresponsible to approve a document of this transcendence without the circumstances described above, unless the adoption of it is a final objective in itself." And they also come to conclusions that they say the draft presented to them was prepared without their participation, as agreed with the advisor in measure 4, and they also conclude that it is not possible to carry out a medium- and long-term forest plan without an updated forest inventory. The draft makes assumptions and hypotheses of growth without any type of basis. It will therefore be very difficult to stimulate the investment of companies if they do not know the availability of the existing resource. We need to design a strategic or business plan, they say that the measures related to the first and second transformation industry are not envisaged, because they tell the Board that they will be collected in a later strategic plan. It's also said that industry has to adapt to the availability of resources, this proves that what you're doing is a forest plan adapted to Ence. Nor does it respond to the demands of bio-economics and everything that leads to the circular economy in the neighborhoods. The capacities and influence of conscientious and responsible demand formed through certification were not evaluated, as were other reputable effects to correct deviations or non-compliances. On the other hand, there is no analysis of the reality of forestry, which is an economic activity with little profit margin that for the vast majority of forest ecosystems present in private mountains and neighboring mountains in man-made cities will not be enough. They also ask us for a marketing plan, we think it's important to promote wood consumption among our own population, not just for those companies that are dedicated to making paper pulp and that send everything out. The new forest plan should serve as a panic for society to view this activity as an opportunity, as an instrument for a sustainable rural environment, not as it now happens, which is a threat. Indicators are needed, you cannot measure what does not exist. The Greek Forest Plan must have a command panel with key indicators, and define together with all the agents involved to allow an annual follow-up of the degree of compliance with targets, measure deviations and establish control mechanisms. However, the draft proposes follow-up mechanisms that are totally insufficient to be biannual and with very improved indicators, such as the number of standards adopted. So what you're going to say is we're going to stay the way we were, with a failure to comply with the current forest plan. You have no budget and no funding. The Forest Plan must have a realistic budget and be consistent with the nature of the actions complemented by its strategic plan. In short, the Forest Plan must have sufficient consensus to transcend a legislate and the eucalyptus industry. Today there are numerous voices and mobilisations of denunciation of what is happening and they realize that, in reality, the Greek society does not want a lot that spoils its cultural, environmental and economic heritage for the benefit of a few companies that are not close to the well-being of the country. We have the continued and organized work of entities that manage to defend the reality of the Greek mountain from a self-critical perspective to the present. With a positive perspective, this can be the Galician organization of communities of neighbouring mountains in common, twenty years putting in place a unique type of property throughout Europe. Where the general director of Montes sees a trap with this property, of course, he cannot do everything he wants because of them, because this organization sees an opportunity for rural development, for cooperative work, for rational and multifunctional use of all our mountains: the creation of wealth, the maintenance of population in our midst, in the rural environment. In short, leave the custody of their territories in the hands of Galicians and Greeks. We have this beautiful popular legislative initiative for the protection of the indigenous forest, an initiative that involves a bit of fresh air to the current policies of the Galician Union; more than necessary initiatives for the survival of our habitat. And in Marea we will support, as it could not be otherwise, to confront the predatory policies of the People's Party in our country. We are playing the future of future generations, in very important respects. The final goal of the People's Party with this plan is to deliver a huge mountain surface today governed by the communal neighborhood to pastry companies. After statements like those made by Mr. Couto, only ten days ago, from En Marea, and I think that from all over society, we must worry. He went on to say, "I don't think it's necessary to plant eucalyptus in agricultural areas, and not an enemy of that species, but an enthusiastic eucalyptus like me." And he releases a proposal to start illegal plantations, where he can pay up to 500 euros per hectare to people who first broke a law that the People's Party itself has established, planting even in protected spaces, and now he's going to pay them to remove the eucalyptus. The truth is, it's a sense. He also tells us that we have to cut off your philosophy. I think it's an amendment to all of the policies Mr. Couto has made over the last thirty years in favor of our mountain. So, well, I've exposed all this, from En Marea, what we're proposing is to put in place participatory and multidisciplinary work groups, with the representation of all these sectors mentioned earlier in the forest value chain, furniture wood, protection associations of our mountain and environmental study associations, universities and political organizations to design among all a future forest plan project of Galicia, and thought in the long term, not in legislation of four years in four years. And to move to Parliament the final project, which just arrived two days ago — we received it Monday night — emanating from the working groups described in point 1, where a study committee will be set up in the format that the House Rules so determine. However, we hope to reach as broad a parliamentary agreement as possible, for the sake of our territory. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u129	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u130	Yes, good morning. Members, Members, guests. Well, let's once again address a crucial issue for the country, which is going to threaten to turn into a new parliamentary mantra: the Forest Plan. On Monday afternoon we received the draft of the Forest Plan in the emails of the participants of the Fire and Forest Commission. It was time, because it was approved in this House five months ago, with the support and vote of the whole world, that this draft should be disseminated. The importance of the Forest Plan is unquestionable, affects two thirds of the country, 1.5 million hectares of trees, with forestry crops, etc., etc. Galicia is the community that has the most wildlife resources in all of Spain, in fact 50% of the wood destined for transformation comes from our community. To this they add those 70,000 jobs between direct and indirect, those 3,000 companies of first and second transformation, more auxiliary, and these figures give an accurate idea of how important the country is to the subject we are dealing with. In addition, forest planning conditions the landscape, the environment, or what it is to say is the health of our lands, our waters and even the air. And if it wasn't enough, all the sectors involved and acquaintances understand that a good forest plan will be a crucial element in coping with the threat of fire successfully, as is stated in the Fire Commission. But not only for the fire, but also to organize the uses of the ground, helping to place each species in the right place and which corresponds to it, especially if we want to articulate a country and to keep it away from the deslexing in which it is today. The forest plan we have today, commonly accepted, is completely out of date and with an unburdened planning, and also for a long time. And although the Government is not tired of repeating that the guidelines for the Forest Plan are consensual, and they are the end of a new plan, if the minutes and recommendations are analysed, the final result of the guidelines is that there are soon signs and suggestions of great silence that need to be resolved, hence the opportunity to continue to emphasize the subject. No one understands the continuing delay on the forest plan, about bringing it to light, about putting it on the table and providing the maximum debate, knowledge, transparency and participation. I want to remember that by July 2017 President Feijóo said that at the end of the month we were going to have the Forest Plan or draft of the Forest Plan. Well, now we have the draft of the Forest Plan, but it's a draft drawn up in contravention of the recommendations of associations, entities, industries, professionals, in general of all those who have an interest in the future of the Greek forest. To show is the document prepared by industry's most representative associations, on which this non-law proposal is based. He quoted them earlier the previous appearance, the proponent, are: the Galaga de Monte e Industria Association, the Provincial Association of First Transformation Entrepreneurs of Madeira de Lugo, Fararmaga, the Cluster of Madeira and the Design of Galicia, Serfoga, the Galician Association of Galicia, Asemfo Galicia, Asefoga and Promagal, which strongly criticize the lack of participation and debate. They don't listen. It's a big problem that's up there on the table and the government knows. And so it's going to be very difficult to move forward in a new forest plan that has the support not only of the professional sectors, as is the case, but of other collectives and parliamentary groups, with which, instead of fixing a problem, the PP is going to provide a new fiasco in forest policy. If the industry position, as mentioned in the mentioned document, and the professional associations of wood are very clear as to the lack of dialogue and participation in the elaboration of this draft, the same can be said of other sectors, such as naturalists, environmentalists, associations, trade unions, universities, researchers, communal mountains, etc. There are many other aspects of a social and environmental nature that are fundamental, since it is not about drawing up a good forest plan from a productive point of view alone, as reflected in the document referred to. Finally, we have the draft, a document made without debate, dialogue and participation, but we are still in time to amend, address and put it in the right direction. We are just at the crossroads to make a decision, the Government can follow as it has up to now and draw out a forest plan manu militari, via decree, with which it will be a fiasco and a failure, or either correct drifting and re-setting the methodological error that has led them to this point and deepen in the debate, in the participation of all sectors and social tissues involved, so that ultimately it will bring a model that will make the so-called multinational, sustainable and biodiversity of the mountain and forest surface, which inevitably passes through a great consensus, a great deal of agreement. I agree that today, at present, it is not happening, and this is a non-interpretable reality, it is an objective reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u131	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u132	So, with regard to the amendments, we understand that the second one is down because it asked for the draft, and the draft already has. And with regard to the first one, we are going to propose to the En Marea Group a transactional amendment, which says, "Guarantee the participation of all sectors involved in the forest value chain," with the same text they have, "wood and furniture, as well as environmental protection and study associations, universities and political groups, to design among all a future forest plan project, designed in the long term", giving — and here comes the plugin — to all those involved the aforementioned draft of the Forest Plan. We believe that today, for example, universities do not have it, and we have been witnesses, Mr. Moses, we have been witnesses in the Commission that they do not have it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u133	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u134	It marks a time limit sufficient to submit allegations, in addition to requesting the author or authors of this draft and the political officer or officer in the Forestry and Fire Commission to explain the master lines of this draft. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u135	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. "Luguese had to be. Where they wash their faces anyone can drink." I think it's from Leras Pulpeiro. I have to confess here my frustration. I didn't come to anything last night to read the draft of the forest plan that was sent so kindly to us in an instant. Some say he's been around for some time in a clandestine manner. [[Laughter]] I didn't see him pass by, so I didn't catch him. [[Applause]] Now yes, now I promise to give you a ride to see what's going on. And it is curious that as part of this — and they pay attention — special committee for studying and analysing forest policy reforms, for the prevention and extinction of forest fires and the Galician Forest Plan, assessing the experience... uf!, you have to be researching clandestinely the essential information to carry out my role as a deputy, running behind the draft of the Forest Plan, I who have been part of a parliamentary commission of such a pompous name since January, with a periodicity of two minimum weekly sessions, sometimes four. I'm told by some of you that you have seen Article 9 of the Member's Statute going through. These are the little democratic practices of politicalizing the People's Party. We therefore share the lie that I have not been able to read the draft of the Forest Plan; nor is it of great importance, the precedents are to be taken into account. The previous plan drawn up and adopted in an exemplary consensus, did it serve? For nothing, he was mocked, trampled, ignored. Reminds me of another forest plan — what we have already talked about in the committee, that of Ximénez and Ceballos— state of 1939, which is a compendium of wisdom, common sense and love for wisdom in rest. This one was put in a drawer while the illustrated fascists gave good account of the mountains. But, let's go back to ours, ours is that -- our way here -- a plan to fail. The most remarkable thing is that it provided 245,000 hectares of eucalyptus to 2040, and twenty-two years earlier we had passed from 500,000. And I know there's no official data, but telling you about the Forest Inventory 4 -- summarizing what I know clandestinely from consulting sources -- we've increased 12,000 acres of half eucalyptus nites over the past eight years, which gives me nearly 100,000 acres more, and over the 500,000 acres sober. Of course, we are aware that only from a broad national agreement can we achieve a forest plan that is credible and feasible, of course! Of course, the People's Party's Lords are aware that, except for the crematic interests of certain groups, there is a general consciousness that the mountain cannot follow like this, that it must be ordered, diversified, curb the monoculture and return it. What has to be sustainable, what can't be an object of speculation, but, uh, they tighten those who pay votes, and what reality is this agreement going to break? From an area already stabilized today, fruit of chaotic and orderly forest policy. It will give letter of legality and normality to what has been done from outside the law and the common forest sense. It's going to be done in line with the demands of an industry that is today of the wise orientations of Ence, based exclusively on fast-growing monocultures. Who has been and is still guilty of this policy of insulating the insulator, of the monoculture of the eucalyptus in vast areas of the Greek territory, of the absence of quality wood in our mountains? Who condemns our mountains of luxury to present and future misery and brutal neoliberal speculation? Why, if we don't start that out there are other alternatives, are we hiding our head under the wings? Such is the past that precedes us and conditions that this one who subscribes — which is an old dog — sometimes tries to put every thing in its place and undermines the suspicion that these appearances of maximums and minimums, maximums of brutal forestation, respond to a reality show, in which everything is finished, and after driving away the staff that we attend nothing will change. I hope I'm caught up in the future of bad thinking, because the forest plan seems to be in a hurry, and the consensus, go for God!, with the ecological organizations outside the commission and with the apparent internal disagreement that have between themselves the wood associations, good future we don't see him. Is that why he's been hiding in the counseling drawers for so long? If everything seems to be unilaterally approved, and this way it's going to be ridiculed, trampled and ignored, nothing changes with PP. It reminds me of that song of the seventy, "You are always the same melody...", and I don't continue to hurt delicate ears. Finally, we are going to support this initiative on a plan that was ghost and is no longer, but it can soon become a mark that we neglect. I wish I could be wrong!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u137	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rivas, in something I give you the reason, with the work we are going through at the commission and with the intensity of the appearances, we have little time to read, and even to prepare many other things. I'm right about that. Look, Mr. Rodríguez, I am curious that you bring to this House the demands of a series of associations in which, among other things, there are also those big companies that are so critical. He knows that in these associations there is Ence and Finsa. I am curious that he brought here the complaints of people like the Cluster of Madeira, who said in his appearance that brown was not a viable alternative to the eucalyptus. Do you agree with that statement, too? Then take what they're interested in, but don't take what they're not interested in. Look, can't it be that they're not in agreement or that they're criticizing all of this not what they say but because they don't like the draft of the forest plan? Can't it be that the draft forest plan collects the diversity of tree species and not the monoculture of eucalyptus, how does this parliamentary group defend? Isn't that the problem? And who's defending that position? Because we already have the draft forest plan and we can start reading it. You're talking about species diversity, it's a clear support for caducifolia, there's no doubt about it, as the guidelines were, on the other hand. Look, let's talk about what the process of drafting this review was and let's see if they actually didn't have a chance to participate in it. This review process begins — as we well know in the Forestry Commission — in 2015. As a previous step — and this is a novelty in the management of these types of regulations — consists of the Forest Council, which, according to the law, is the advisory body and administration in forest matters. By the way, Mr. Rodríguez, all these associations are on the Forest Council. By the way, Mr. Quiroga, three vowels representing universities at the Forest Council, and in that Forest Council a working group is set up to make the guidelines that must be followed later in the drafting of the draft to the Galician Council. So there's participation in these associations, there's participation in universities. That working group integrated twenty-six bodies, there were all the associations Mr. Rodríguez says; I can't understand how they said they didn't participate. See, in 2015, the technical committee of the working group met on thirteen occasions, the working group on eight occasions. On 17 December 2015, the guidelines are definitively adopted and are added to the Forest Council — where these associations are — on 29 April 2016. On 18 December 2017, the draft draft of the first review of the Galician Forest Plan — we are at the draft stage — began, and a deadline for allegations is given to the members of the Forest Council. The associations you mentioned are on the Forest Council, participated in the working group on the drafting of the guidelines — which, of course, were adopted unanimously, there was only one particular vote, and none of these associations — and had the opportunity, and still have the opportunity, to participate in the submission of allegations, and they have come to say that they did not participate in that draft. Well, I just didn't understand it. After the draft, we will have the initial approval of the first revision of the Galician Forest Plan, an initial approval which will open a two-month public information process, and will be able to make contributions there as well. What I want to move, ladies and gentlemen, on a day like this, which is the world forestry day, is that we are in an initial phase and that we are, in addition, in an area of a commission that we are working on doing this reform. So as to the participation of these associations, Mr. Rodríguez, I would say that I really understand it in the sense that I think they are using these things for other reasons, but not for the fundamental reason that they were not involved. As regards parliamentary processing, as Mr Rivas has pointed out, a special non-permanent study commission has been established since December this year. I want to refer here to this committee, because all of us here are not taking part in the meetings, but there are parliamentarians, and we all agree on the extraordinary level of that committee. See, 65 attenders, 47 reports — including, of course, the draft of the Forest Plan, which was recently forwarded to the members of this committee —, high level of training and qualification, prestige and representativeness of all visitors. There are economic experts and representatives of the Galician civil society — for example, the Juana de Vega Foundation — experts in agrarian structure, experts in geography, gentlemen of En Marea, of spatial planning — Augusto Pérez Alberti, professor of the USC, two days ago — experts in forestry, edaphology, vegetable production —Roque Soalleiro, Antonio Regueiro —, experts in nature conservation, various economic sectors related to the mountain and the multifunctionality of the mountain. You've seen the people who defend the pasture extensively, came the protected geographical indication of the chestnut, were the representatives of the mushrooms — from the work that can be done with the mushrooms in our mountain — by comparison related to the Fire Prevention and Extinction Service. All the unions came — and they didn't come to speak well of the PP, eh!, but they were in the commission and moved their criteria — representatives of the state, autonomous and local administration. Ladies and gentlemen, at a job, as Mr Rivas said, very intensively — today in two months we have already taken two thirds of the appearances and we will end up with them in early April — I want here to thank the effort, commitment and dedication of all, all, eh!, the parliamentarians who have been part of this committee, not only of my parliamentary group, but also of the opposition groups. I'm done now, gentlemen. The parliamentary processing of the Forest Plan does not have to go to any other study committee than the committee we have already created, that is where we have to collect all the contributions. It is in this framework where, with the contributions of the parliamentary groups as well — still missing the stage of conclusion of the commission — we will be able to set up a country agreement for our mountain in order to achieve a mountain model — as this parliamentary group defends — multifunctional, living and sustainable, providing economic profitability to its owners, but also providing all kinds of profitability to the whole of Greek citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u139	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u140	Thank you, President. Mr. González, the People's Party, and in this Forest Plan, as you say, that it already reflects the diversity of species, how we will trust you and how we will trust Mr. Couto if he is able to say, "The directive on wood is to maintain the surface if there is demand and if we do not try to reduce it. And on the eucalyptus it raises 100,000 hectares more."Is that what you're talking about? How are we going to trust a forest plan where the general director of Montes tells us that the forest plan is 20 years old and that the current one is alive? "If the demand of the eucalyptus is high, for you may have to plant everything with it," these are words that are written here, and then you give them, said the current general director of Mounts. And with all this you want us to be trusted, we can't even trust the forest plan that's going to approve of you! And they are especially concerned about the proliferation of the eucalyptus in our mountains. This revision detects omissions and deficiencies in relation to this genre, with eucalyptus itself. In the first forest inventory of 1973 it was present in a total of 131,000 hectares, a national forest inventory. In the second National Forest Inventory of 1997-1998, 397,000 hectares, 28% of the wooded area of Galicia. In 2015 we know it's close to 500,000, or maybe it's already over. It is not mentioned in this draft that eucalyptus plantations in Galicia already account for more than half of those in the whole state, 52%. In the text, things are obvious as important as eucalyptus nitens is an exotic species and it is an invasive species, dangerous for the maintenance of biodiversity and the functionality of our ecosystems. In the text of the review it is unclear that the unstoppable increase in eucalyptus is related to the agricultural abandonment and decline of the Greek rural environment, thus generating a cultivation broth for all these pastry industries. There is a lack of a sustainable, multifunctional, socially inclusive productive model. And what this does is that the fate of mountains and agrarian lands at the end end end are all carved up by eucalyptuses. The protection of the indigenous masses is not provided in that guarantee of their connectivity, as you say. In general terms, the fulfilment of the current Vigilant law was not done, and there is a clear culprit, which is the People's Party. This already limited plantations with Eucalyptus genera species in plots with leafy natives or agricultural lands, rivers, coasts, habitats with protective figures. Today we have the Natura Network, we have natural parks where there is the eucalyptus and where the director general of Montes wants to pay those who have broken the rules for now withdrawing them. To me, the truth is, I think it's embarrassing. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u141	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. After the debate on the non-legislative proposals has been completed, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Puy Fraga, on the conduct of management by the Galician Council in front of the parliamentary groups of the Congress of Deputies in order to contribute to facilitating the processing, debate and approval of the general budgets of the State for the year 2018 within the deadline set. Amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist, Socialist and En Marea Bloc have not been accepted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López and five other Members, on the conduct of management by the Galician Union in front of the parliamentary groups of the Congress of Deputies in order to contribute to facilitating the processing, debate and approval of the general budgets of the State for the year 2018 within the deadline set. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u142	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Monserrat Prado Cores, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the effective legislation on labour and the protection of the public pension system. He accepted the amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group and accepted it as an addendum to the points of the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Is that so?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u143	Yes. It's BNG's self-amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u144	Is that accepted?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u145	Then it would be like adding the first paragraph, the aspects of En Marea, and the first two points of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u146	That's right. We vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u147	Sorry, let's interrupt the vote. Tell me, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u148	For points. How many points are there?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u149	Do you accept the point vote, Mrs Prado?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u150	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u151	No, no, he's next door. [[Murmurs.]] Do you accept a point vote?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u152	Yes, it would be the first point of the initiative and then everything else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u153	Thank you. We then, first of all, vote on point 1 of the initiative. Voting of the first point of the transactional text of the Proposal is not G.P. law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the effective legislation on labour and the protection of the public pension system. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u154	We vote on the remaining points of the non-law proposition. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the effective legislation on labour and the protection of the public pension system, except for the first point. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u155	We are now voting for the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Anton Sánchez. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was accepted. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García and Mr. Marcos Cal Ogando, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government to prevent the evictions and guarantee the right to a decent housing. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u156	We voted for the non-law proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence; if not, they don't know what they vote for. Quiet. There are no amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and three other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece to ensure the necessary transparency in the procurement of self-employed persons, in particular with regard to minor contracts. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u157	We voted for the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr José González Vázquez. Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to En Marea were not accepted. We vote. [[Murmurs.]] Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José González Vázquez and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Union of Galicia to the Central Government, as well as to the Greek municipalities, through the Fegamp, in relation to the return of the tax on the increase in the value of urban land unduly charged. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 14; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u158	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Galicia in relation to the execution of the pending sections of the high capacity route of the North Coast. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u159	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Bará. There is a self-amendment, and the amendments of the other groups, Socialist and In Marea have not been accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the development by the Greek Government of legal actions appropriate for the return to the public heritage of the palace of Meirás and other goods by the current owner family, as well as the action to be carried out in connection with the notice of sale of the palace. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u160	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Rodríguez Estévez. Is there a transaction proposal? If he doesn't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u161	Yes. We replaced point 2 of our proposal for a non-law by the text of the Socialist Party: "Ensure the participation of all sectors involved in the forest value chain, wood and furniture, as well as environmental protection and study associations, universities and political groups, to design among all of them a draft future forest plan and planned in the long term, giving all those involved the draft of the forest plan and marking a sufficient time to submit allegations, in addition to requesting the presence of draft authors and political leaders in the Forest and Fire Commission to explain the master lines of the current draft."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u162	Thank you. We voted for this transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece to design and transfer to the Parliament of Galicia a new forest plan. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u163	They have finished the vote and then I will read out an institutional statement that brings to us the members of the promotional commission — some of which are among us today, and to whom we take advantage of to greet — which is in defense of the future of the Galego Centre in Bos Aires. Leo: "The Galego Center in Bos Aires, an emblematic entity of the Galese diaspora in the world, which had in its centenary institutional life a consequent act of defense and social, cultural and economic promotion of the territorial Galician emigration, today requires a firm defense position of the Greek citizenship in the face of the danger of its disappearance. In view of the above, the Greeks and the Greeks want to make a call to society and our political representatives — together with Galicia, the Galician Parliament, the Royal Academy of Galicia, the Galician Council of Culture, the Greek universities and other social and cultural institutions and collectives of Galicia and the Diaspora — with the aim of stressing the transcendental importance of preserving the entire heritage, artistic and cultural that makes up the Galician Centre of Bos Aires. In the defence of this enormous material and immaterial acquis common to the Greeks and the Greeks from here and there, we want and must be respectful of the laws of Argentina that protect their artistic and cultural goods, also with the Greek community of the world, which forms a universal Galician ally with artificial boundaries, and, likewise, with the sovereign decisions of the groupings of the center of Galicia that work elsewhere in the resolution of this conflict, which seriously compromises the medical supply of quality and maintenance of jobs. In the same way, we respect our feelings about the tradition of mutualism, culture, solidarity, Galicianism and republicanism that during the long night of franchiseism kept the light of the word, of reason, of democracy, of coexistence and brotherhood with the land mother. This huge community-based work tradition, which we offer to the culture of the host country, is entirely ours, entirely Welsh, and manifests itself in the heritage that we want to protect and project proudly towards the future. For all this, the Greeks and the Greeks are calling on the Galician Union and even the Spanish Government — through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs — for concrete actions before the Argentine Government aimed at solving definitely the very serious problem that goes through the centenary institution. First, we demand political will to preserve and guarantee the quality medical care of current partners and partners and the protection of the artistic, documentary, bibliographic and editorial heritage, and we call for efforts to consensualize a solution that prevents the demolition and speculation of real estate of a building that must continue to be a reference to Galicia in Bos Aires. The symbolology of the building and the health, social and cultural foundation of the current Galego Centre offers many and many varied possibilities for Galicia of the 21st century to remain one of the identities that make up the capital porteña, the great cosmópole — as Otero Pedrayo called it — who has welcomed thousands of Welsh and Galicians, pride of our strain in the world, historical symbol of universal galeguity, heart of Galicia and nutritional blood of the Argentine Republic. Santiago de Compostela, March 21, 2018." [[Approved by consent.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] We're still on the agenda. Open the doors, please, they were still locked. We continue with point 5 of the agenda, which is an interpeleration. Interpellation by Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. Marcos Cal Ogango, of the G.P. on equality, conciliation and co-responsibility
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u164	Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u165	Good morning. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Mr. Rueda. We bring this interpellation that has to do with the unequal distribution of reproductive work and that has to do with a deep question, which is the allocation of gender roles, which has configured a sexual division of work and which gives women the role of caregivers, which is historically based on the role of women as mothers, which has to do with a mystification of motherhood. So the absolute identification between being a woman and being a mother to us is one of the elements in which the patriarchy is supported, because this derives from the fact that the child is the responsibility of the woman and this also derives from the fact that the entire sphere of reproduction and the house, the responsibility of the woman, is considered private. And yet this reproduction and maintenance of the labour force, being a fundamental element, is not valued enough. What happened was that in Western societies -- that's evidence -- until the democratization of contraception, motherhood was a woman's destiny, it was so. And not being a mother in our societies until recently it meant being even more to the other; it came to be almost: fate was being a mother, being a nun or a whore; besides, denying the latter almost the category of subject. But, finally, let's go to the present, we're trying to overcome the backward models of the past, we want to overcome the patriarchy. If up to now all the jobs in the reproductive sphere have been seen as secondary and have been invisible in view of the central role of productive work in industrial and post-industrial societies, despite fulfilling, as I said, a central role, women's work has been devalued and invisibleized, both in the reproductive sphere — I said, considered minor work, private work — and in the productive sector, which, as we said in the non-law proposal on equal pay, has also become invisible the historical role of women, has also been reproduced in the productive expectation of sexual distribution of work. Even so, if we count in economic terms the work of care — and this is one of the questions that we addressed to you: if the Union considers it, to count, in economic terms, the work of care, which is carried out in the vast majority by women — we would be careful — in the most cautious estimates — in values of between 40% and 45% of GDP, which is no less. According to economist Carmen Castro, the reigning patriarchate extends from home to the "macro", as she calls these transversal dynamics that seem unattainable but that are marking us every day. Everything is contaminated with inequality, starting with intimate tasks and ending up with the workplace. The guilt: a heteronormative capitalist system that still maintains female discrimination, but also the unfair distribution not only of work, but also of leisure times. So, let's go to the data. The data on the distribution of work between men and women — because it is still a reality in our society, despite some progress that I will also refer to — are that most caregivers continue, they still have a woman's name. According to data from the Secretariat of Equality itself, in 2016 91% of surpluses for child care were requested by women. If we're going to 2017, in the case of people who came to the paternity permit, from men who were admitted to the paternity permit, we're in 12,972 men. If there's a small advance, they're converging. But if we look at people with part-time or unemployed employment, who stated that the main reason for this was to be able to take care of children or dependents, we see that, of the 35,000 people in Galicia in this situation, 96.2% were women. So, in 2017, 1,078 women received excess care, compared to only 132 men, 10%. It's clear that there's a gap here, that there's an inequality here that has to do with what he said, with the allocation of a woman of a certain role. But we're also going to see the known data. We know they're scarce and there's very few sources. With regard to domestic work, nearly 70% of the hours devoted to domestic work are carried out by women — 2015 data. In full-time employees, women occupy 11.3 hours a week more than men in unpaid jobs. We're talking about this double or triple workday of women, which, by the way, has an effect on health, because there are some studies that talk about the fact that there are many cases of disease among women aged 35 to 55 who have to do with the overwork of this double or triple workday. The concept, then, of co-responsibility implies not only that care is socialized, that men actually participate in care, but that it also implies that conciliating is having time for life, it is having enough time for life and not to get sick of over effort, men and women. It is not, for example, to reconcile, as we have already treated multiple times in Commission 5a, deriving, the most powerful classes and even the middle classes, care for precarious employment in the home — which are also mostly women — by generating global care networks. So we propose with this interpellation that we be moved by the measures of the Union that have to do with socialization of care and with increased general possibilities for reconciliation. I'm going to see how it penalizes inequality, this inequality in the distribution of reproductive work, in the productive sphere itself, because we're going with three data. On the one hand, women — as we have said — are more attracted to excess care; on the other hand, they are also more welcomed to part-time work for child or dependent care. We have this tremendous figure that 76% of part-time jobs are done by women, but it's that 13.5% of women have accepted part-time employment to care for children and dependents, compared to 2% of men. We keep on with the cracks all the time. The gap between salary supplements and overtime pay. It's women who use this concept less. This is one of the central elements of the wage divide, — we have commented on it in the past. Thus, in 2014, in wages supplements, the wage difference between men and women reached 30.4% in the state as a whole, higher in wages supplements for nighttime, shiftwork or weekend work, and especially in extraordinary hours. We're talking about women taking less or less of these kinds of concepts for an unequal division of reproductive work. But, following the punishment of maternity care in the productive sphere, we cannot fail to mention direct discrimination, repression of maternity. We have dealt with the case of Nélida Pisco with Buses de Calo many times, we have delays and reluctance in the evaluation of the risk of pregnancy, up to Sergas himself and we have the case of researcher Maria de La Fuente, who transfers to all parliamentary groups the claim that in research programs it does not penalise time for maternity. There is no reconciliation option in the search pockets. In practice, a maternity leave calculated as an empty amount of research time or curriculum; it's a discrimination, it's a penalty to maternity. This is evidence. Maternity, childhood, is the most important element in the pay gap, is the most penalized element for women in their careers. That is why we ask you what specific measures you will take in order to avoid, in accordance with your competences, penitentiary maternity. Of course, this whole wage gap, all this inequality, both in distribution of reproductive work and in inequality in the productive sphere, also has obvious effects on pensions — as we said yesterday. The fact that women have worse jobs throughout their lives is that they have worse pensions. In retirement pensions there is a difference of more than 38%. And in view of this, conciliation policies are incomplete. The order in Europe at the end of the 1990s and the measure is moving to Spanish legislation, but the reality of conciliation policies is that we are in a degree of development under the eurozone: low public service development, low real measures to support women's employment and, above all, no attention is paid not only to increasing the rate of female employability, but to socializing care and sharing working time in the reproductive field. Therefore, in the role of family-child, which is fundamental to these issues of budgets, Galicia and the Spanish State are especially deficient. If in Spain public expenditure for this function is only 1.1% of GDP, Galicia is 0.4%, which is 66% of the state average. But if we go to European states, which sometimes all groups consider reference to conciliation policies, Denmark is at 4%; Sweden, at 3%; Norway, at 3% — a little more — and Finland, at 3%. And, in this sense, calling the "Finnish Box" to the quintessential she gives birth when a woman gives birth is a real joke. [[Applause]] But what is more, the Scandinavian countries have maternity and paternity permits from the most generous in the world, which makes the Spanish state look like they do. And let's add one more question: the State of Wellness's cut has essentially affected women, who had to redouble their care work to assume those roles that the State had withdrawn, and in this case, of course, by failing to fund the social security quotas of informal dependent caregivers, so that in 2017 — they are data from the Imsserso — only 918 Greek people who were devoted to the care of relatives were affiliated to Social Security as professional caregivers, which means less than 7% of the total. To finish, there is a clear relationship between this lack of co-responsibility and the demographic decline. If the social message is that maternity penalizes in the career, if the social message is also that there are no jobs, how are the women of Greece going to expect us to have children or daughters?, how are they going to want the free choice, what are we talking about here? It's not about returning to birth demographic models, but about simply, simple and flatly, that women can exercise maternity as we decided. Well, how are you going to expect this with tremendous demographic implosion? And this implosion, of course, is not a curse. With other policies, by copying these Scandinavian countries, they could be reversed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u166	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u167	Anyway, it doesn't give me time to ask questions, they're in writing, and we're waiting for an answer, because it's a country challenge, too, for the demographic issue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u168	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Vázquez, with all due respect and respect to you, this plea was signed by Mrs. Quinteiro. I am very sorry that I have time to carry out my parliamentary duties one Saturday night, even talking about interpellations, and I do not have time to defend an interpellation here, in the plenary session, and more of this kind of interpellation. We were waiting — and we were waiting — for explanations from his spokesman, but he is not even there; so it will be difficult to obtain them. Having said this, and answering it, since you were the second in charge of defending this interpellation, you actually asked specific questions, which were in the interpellation, it is true, too, and I will try to answer them. I even think it's about thanking you for these questions. We are all in the constructive spirit of trying to solve situations that really happen. I agree, not with all of them, but with some of the descriptions you have given, and of course, with the general diagnosis that child and child care jobs and also dependent people mostly fall on women, and this penalizes women, without any doubt, in their working life, also in their social life, also in their individual life and in their development, in all sectors, at least in comparison to the burdens they have or we have to take on men, or that we are currently assuming. Of course, it is about correcting this situation and of course, that the Council of Galicia, all governments, has knowledge of this reality, and also the obligation to implement changes, to encourage also that these changes have a welcome in society and that these changes, therefore, are effective and are real. Therefore, by answering your questions, firstly, without going further, I want to tell you that the Galician Union believes that this has an outstanding baggage, but more needs to be done. With regard to the creation of squares in child schools supported by public funds, just the comparison between 2009, 86%, and the year 2018, 24%, I believe it is to place us above the European ratio: 18.4 in 2009 and 40.7 in 2018. The European ratio is 33%, and it speaks well of the clear efforts made in the creation of public-funded child-school squares, and it will undoubtedly agree with me that this has a positive impact on the subject of what we are talking about. We also have the obligation and we are promoting men's co-responsibility, supporting economic measures to reduce their work schedule for the care of children and children. They have access to these aids, 1,500 men. Is that enough? I don't think so. We must continue to focus on this line, no doubt, but it is true that there were no such aids before to allow men to exercise their co-responsibility, these means of encouragement. So, I think that the road that I insist on is a long way to go, is also an outstanding one. In the area of dependency, I think it also has an impact on the subject of what we're talking about. The supply of public or publicly funded squares increased by 34% compared to 2009. Now it's almost 8,000 squares, and it's more, almost 56,000, people who receive dependency services. The objective of the legislation is to reach 60,000 dependents. I agree with you that these tasks fall and mostly fall into women, and that women often have to take care of in the family realm of caring for these tasks. So all the public aid they give themselves, welcome them, no doubt at all, and I insist that they're not enough yet, but that they've made a great deal of progress in these years. We also implement — and refer to the Council of Galicia — measures of time-flexibility and teleworking. I want to stop especially in time flexibility. I believe that a responsible administration has to do the first thing to do is to set an example in its own house, and it has been done with the implementation of a system of time flexibility in the administration, which seemed so simple but that over the years that the administration of Galician Union had not implemented until now, and has not been implemented — at least in the news we have — in the vast majority of the Greek administrations and also in the rest of the state. We have to say that more than 10,000 officials and officials have been welcomed into these hourly flexibility measures, and this undoubtedly also has an impact on the subject of what we are talking about. All these measures and more are included in the VII Strategic Plan on Equal Opportunities between Men and Women, which goes — as you are sure know — from 2017 to 2020; it is an ambitious plan. It has an economic content: 250 concrete measures and a budget of almost 400 million euros, which is as much as saying 77% more than the previous plan. Ask me what measures have been taken in relation to him. First I mean, the first balance we're committed to doing this and we're going to do it when we're one year old. You know that the plan was adopted on March 30 last year; therefore, we are on the verge. Not completed this year. As soon as I do this year, we'll make the first balance. I can bring you forward the measures you're taking, the results you're taking from these measures, but it's true that to balance a plan to four years, the logical and understandable is to wait a year. That year is about to be fulfilled; of course, we will make that balance sheet, and he will be aware of it by the Secretary-General of Equality, in this Parliament, and myself, without any problems. I want to tell you that all the measures I've reported before are collected in this roadmap, and they've already been made effective, they've come from before, this year 2017. But by commenting on other issues, I think it's also important because it implies, without any doubt, all the struggle against gender-based violence and also promoting an education, from the earliest ages, on an equal footing, which then also serves to implement or make co-responsibility between men and women easier. We therefore implement this training plan in the autonomous administration itself. A decree was adopted on 70/2017 of 13 July, which regulates training in equality, prevention and combat against gender-based violence by staff serving the administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. I'm going back to the former, fixing things or trying to solve these issues in our own house, apart from exercising our obligations to try to extend them to the rest of society. There's a lot of measures in the educational field that you're sure you already know. In the new training cycle to promote gender equality in vocational training, there is already a centre that offered it. We hope to extend it to many more, and to offer to educational centres the free self-configuration subject of Gender Equality, addressed to ESO's first and second students. They also held days directed to teachers as well as mothers and parents, and books, brochures, leaflets, tripticals, didactics, within the project "Traveling Malletes." You will agree with me on progress, especially at the earliest age, against gender-based violence, also, ultimately, on equal education and also positively affecting co-responsibility. And finally, I want to tell you how long I have left that, in fact, there are specific plans — also answering your questions — to move forward in the strategic areas that are designed in this VII plan; areas, in addition, I think particularly sensitive. First of all, we presented last June the Women's Employment Plan, which aims to promote women's role in the labour market. It is provided with EUR 100 million up to 2020. In fact, the data on the pay divide continue to be very worrying, but fortunately — if this was a comfort, which is not — it must also be said, they are smaller than in the state as a whole, and the figures gradually — very much to go through — are improving. This month we are going to approve the first Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan, where many of the planned steps will be concentrated in the strategic area of the VII plan; the strategic area that leads by title: achieving equality in the management of jobs and times. You were wondering what progress was being made. For it's practically finished, I tell you, and it's close to approving, and therefore the advances are all given. This month we will approve it, and we will present it, of course, at the parliamentary headquarters. Therefore, I can move forward, Mrs Vázquez, that the plan aims to put in place what seems to be hoped-for, another thing is to succeed with its execution and actions of different kinds that affect the conciliation from the base, of course, of family co-responsibility, and to focus — putting various focussings, but I think this is one of the main — on an equitable distribution of household-family responsibilities between women and men. There will be five strategic areas of action, to tell them very quickly — I insist that when approved it will be given, of course, fulfilled detail—: the first would be the awareness of society and the contribution to knowledge in the field of reconciliation and co-responsibility — first axis — the second, the educational programming directed at the elimination of gender stereotypes; the third axis of this plan, the empowerment of general cultural change in the use of time and time rationalization, with the involvement of different social actors; the fourth, the consolidation of already started efforts and the extension of the changes that you yourself said are going on — fortunately, and you will have to give many more of this plan, we agree on the changes that have been made in the area of reconciliation of working and private life, from the perspective of the action and the involvement that there must be of different administrations — of course, of course, of your own self-reliment, of your project, but also of the other administrations, we agree on, and also, of your individual changes in no debt, when you can be able, of your life, of your efforts, of your lifetime, and of the latest, of your success, of your success, and of yours, of yours, of your success, of yours, of your success, and yours, and yours, of yours, of yours, and yours, and your success, and yours, and yours, and your ability, and yours, of yours, of yours, and your ability, and your ability, of your ability, of your ability, of yours, of yours, of your success, and yours, of yours, of yours, and yours, and yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, and yours, and yours, and your ability, and yours, and yours, and yours, of yours, and yours, of yours, and yours, and yours, of yours, and yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, and yours, and yours. So there's a lot of things set in motion, and more than they have to come. I appreciate your interest, and I insist that when this first Conciliation Plan is approved, all this will be accomplished in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u170	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u171	I appreciate the answers, but first of all, you're here as a German Government not as a hooligan of the People's Party. So I, as I have with women and co-responsibility, will focus my intervention on these issues. As we have about women and co-responsibility, we're going to focus on politics. First of all, with regard to the conciliation plan that announces, one more question, even if it is not on this question: are you consensual with social agents? are you going to make a participatory process? Secondly, it has not answered the question of whether the Board has any plans to account for GDP in monetary terms for reproductive work. Thirdly, we're going to real politics. Squares in children's schools. The euphemism of "places supported with public funds" is evident that, of course, it raises this rate of squares, but says the rate of public squares, of public squares in children's schools in our country, because they are promoting a privatization model. Fourth, campaigns. Some of them have been marked, but others don't mention them; they haven't mentioned, for example, the video announcement from the Welcome Card, where only women take care of children. There's a way to promote co-responsibility! It seems that babies are only the tasks of mothers in that video, which is one of the fundamental videos of their "information" campaigns — between quotes. I'm using, there's some action. It's not just to facilitate conciliation with regard to teleworking, it's also necessary to boost employment. He talked little about pushing the job. He spoke of the female employment plan. For what we've seen in the DOG, only 2% of the plan's staffing is pushed. If that is the impetus for employment, let us bear in mind that employment, as we have said before, is a fundamental element in stopping demographic implosion; that obvious relationship between demographic implosion, wage gaps and women's inequality in all sectors. For example, in European countries, those who have the highest fertility rates are those who have higher, higher employment rates in women, and where the gender gap in the labour market is lower. So we have to go to more ambitious employment plans. And, of course, that the Union does not tolerate these penalties in the careers that are given, for example, in research, as in the case we have mentioned to it. Specific policies. Teaching, he talked about several campaigns to disseminate equality values, but instead of encouraging co-education at all levels, they still allow and sustain schools that separate by sex. What message are we giving to children who go to those schools — well, boys and girls who go to those schools separately? What message do we give when we intend to distinguish gender roles from childhood? It's essential to act in childhood, too; he pointed out that this education from early childhood is fundamental, of course, yes, because, if not, they're defining gender roles between 2 and 3 years and they end up assigning those roles that we said at the beginning of a caretaker woman and man who is what brings the resources to home; they're already defining themselves. Sixth place, on the strategic plan. Well, we know it hasn't been a year, but it could have been more clearly decimating the measures that have been pushed or not. And then budgeting is also necessary, because as for conciliation programs in 2017, in the third quarter there was only 6% execution. What's the final? Of course, it could also be used to explain, since yesterday we had a debate in that direction, what is the real amount of equality policies with regard to GDP and with respect to the budget of the Union, because yesterday it looked like almost in the budget of the Union was aimed at 1% fighting against gender violence. It seemed like that in the debate, and we understand that's not the case; we don't get our accounts. To finish, we know it's a challenge that even exceeds the competences of the Board, the challenge of division of work, because it's not only the challenge of co-responsibility, it's not only the challenge of conciliation, of having all and all more time for life, it's a challenge that has to do with a context of ecological crisis, of robotization of production and of job losses that will be given, that we can convert into a division of work. Economist Carmen Castro, also quoted earlier, said: "We can see this challenge as an alternative to the redistribution of resources and wealth from another paradigm based on gender equity and intergenerational solidarity. To meet this challenge it is essential to account for how much women really work, mainly reproductive work in GDP." And he didn't point out whether the Union meant or not, nor did he even say or respond to whether the Union meant or not to account for it. Reduced working hours for the world and need to open new employment sectors that are life-related. It's a challenge, and it also means a profound social change. For us their answers do not satisfy the measure of the height of this challenge we have as a country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u172	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Close this question, Mr Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Vázquez, I'm telling you about Mrs. Quinteiro and you're talking about hooligans. That idea association doesn't think it's very good for your partner, but... if you compare it, you'll know what's in your head; maybe, just like us, the same thing as almost all of us. [[Applause]] Look, I'm glad we agreed -- and I told you in the first intervention -- that at least what I took from your interventions, and even from mine, we put it in relation. It's just that we're moving forward. And it's also true that not everything is the responsibility of the Galician Union. The Galician Union has its responsibilities, eh!; we also have the political parties; they have, of course, the rest of the administrations; they have, of course, the entrepreneurs too; and, if they want, they have society as well, when they change their mindset and when they can take advantage of all the opportunities and any encouragement measures that can be introduced from the administrations. That's what we agree on. And that, in the end, is also true that it reflects on data; therefore, we go to the data. He told me we didn't give a lot of data on the female employment plan. Well, it's a recent plan, as you know, but the figures are there and I think the figures are satisfactory about what's going to be achieved little by little. It's going to reduce -- I insist -- the pay gap, which is still a wide gap, but it's a crack that is slowly narrowing down, and it's going to increase employment in women. It will, by the way, increase women's entrepreneurial capacity. There's a very important program to which I think you don't give -- at least in parliamentary initiatives like this -- the importance you have, which is the Emega plan, where you are encouraged and you have created nearly 1,000 jobs for women and women; not only for women, but basically for women, and, yes, exclusively created by women entrepreneurs who, thanks to a small help from the Galician Union, have installed their company, and many of them are already consolidated, successfully, and who do a lot of work. I think that's a good promotion measure, and I think that we should put it in value: almost seven million euros invested from 2010 to last year by the Government of Galicia. You were also talking to me about the fear they have: of the budgets of the Union devoted to equality. Look, it's a cross-sectional matter. We can make a lot of bills, and we've done them. You always question them and we defend them, but it's very difficult to agree when, for example, you talk about the specific budget of the Secretariat of Equality, which is what I understand that you consider as undisputedly devoted to equality, and then there are cross-cutting matters, in which we can agree or not. You'll always shoot down, they always do. But, of course, I believe that these are indisputable figures, not those that devote themselves to the fight against gender violence, that I think that this became clear after many discussions, that one adapts twice as much, first because you didn't devote everything you had to devote, and secondly, because unfortunately, it's a problem that won't go any less and, therefore, obliges Junta de Galicia to accept it. But it's also a lot more about everything that has to do with equality policies; see, as much as 98.5 million euros in the last closed budget, and 54.7 in the last budget of the year 2009 drawn up by a government that grew much more income than it has so far. That's the reality. Then they also talk about budget execution, and they always tell me they're not executed. Look at 92%, given that we manage a lot of European funds. I think it's a very worthy execution of the General Secretariat of Equality in the last budgetary exercise. So, Mrs Quinteiro... I would like to say that — Mrs Quinteiro, I would like to! — Mrs Vázquez, we will continue to bet on doing things and fulfilling our obligations by setting an example, first of all, from the administration itself. [[Laughter]] It didn't give much importance to the implementation of time flexibility. I'd like you to tell your mayors to implement time flexibility in the administrations in which you rule. Why don't you dare? Why don't they? No, you, logically, should not need a time flexibility, but many women and men who needed it at the Galician Council asked for it and got it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know why it's not done, if it's so easy and it has so little merit; I don't know why they don't do it in the administrations in which you rule. We are going to try to continue to do so, and we are going to continue to take measures that were, in principle, innovative. Let's keep insisting, I'm glad you agree on the educational agenda, which is fundamental to avoiding many problems that are much more difficult to correct. We're going to try to continue working with other administrations and other institutions, also in the neighborhood area, also in businesses, and of course we're going to try to follow, although I know it's a difficult goal — sometimes listening to you — so that there is a minimum consensus in this House on matters that are fundamental, and the Government of Galicia considers this matter to be so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u174	Thank you, Vice President. We greet the students of Basanta Silva Institute in Vilalba. Welcome to Parliament. We're continuing the interrogations. Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the number of access squares to the qualification of medicine
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u175	Mr. Torrado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u176	Thank you, President. Good morning, almost noon. Good morning, Counselor. I know I appreciate you personally. Let's see if we can propose a resolution for what we consider a problem, and I'm going to ask you whether you consider it the same, from your perspective, since the government is a little out of control: they have controlled the Health Counsellor and they don't let him answer, Mr. Feijóo does the control session for the Government of Zapatero, the President of Parliament has to control some Members here usually -- you're a little out of control, with some fusivity. I think we can come to some common conclusion, and that's our intention. To put some context, there's a staff problem in the health system in Galicia. We have a staff deficit caused by the usual replacement rates, caused by the incapacity or the people's party's desire to urge Mr. Montoro that the replacement rate should be eliminated and be able to replace the health care staff and a habit of poor work policy, from our point of view. By contextualizing something, you might have heard me say here once... we have a theme. Mrs. Egerique usually tells me I'm stubborn. Yes, I do have them, and in that we agree, and our group has an aversion to this of the health personnel. But it causes some consequences. You know that we are, according to users, Spain's third worst health care, according to their value through the CIS health barometer, which is an assessment that we consider that cannot be accepted and that we should improve it. And they basically point to management problems: only 3 out of 20 say that health is better than five years ago — only 3 out of 20 — and, in addition, most of them point to waiting lists as a serious problem. From our point of view, even if there are some other structural problems, the fundamental thing that defines this is the lack of professionals; however, there are some false budgets, in terms of staff, which are not real and which are not taking up stable jobs that are planned, but are not dealt with, and there is a global calculation of approximately 400 million a year that is dedicated from the Health Council to financing work instability, precariousness. It is EUR 400 million a year to finance precarious work, these contracts for hours to hire on Mondays and bid off on Fridays to re-contract on Mondays and not pay on weekends; it's a complicated situation. They do a few hours in hospitals, but they don't extend the templates, which causes a quality deficit. There is one of the worst ratios of healthcare professionals per inhabitant in Galicia, according to studies analyzing the health situation in Spain. Finally, we have a problem. In addition, the Feijóo Government has contracts in its nine years less than 15% of the MIRs held in a stable manner — less than 15% —. However, in the face of the usual problems of replacement of professionals, in the face of the obvious problems that professionals are already demanding, usually in emergencies, in pediatrics, in matters that have to do with the situation of waiting lists, that professionals say we need more personal resources, the Government usually argues that there are no professionals, that we have a problem. Every time you focus on the lack of professionals, they say they're not hired because there's no one in the system and there's no one to hire. The truth is, sometimes we don't know where all these people come from, then they get hired in precarious, because those same people who hire in precariously stable ways could contribute much better to the system. You see, some of the themes are that staff work better in a stable way than in an unstable way, issues that have some of the political positions. You probably think otherwise, that it's better to exploit and squeeze, and we think it's better to give quality of work to give that quality of service. But, in any case, that's probably not the goal of our debate today. In spite of that, the Health Council, the Government of the Union, has been putting a number of obstacles to the OPE health which since the Government of Spain, from the Ministry of Fairy, have been marked as serious because they are making that public summons difficult. In short, there's a staff problem, all professionals have signed it, and we've been asking for it for a while. And the Government of the Union seems to not share that diagnosis and put all the necessary problems in order to incorporate new professionals. We have a situation now in which you probably know that the University of Santiago, which offers the degree of medicine, proposes the reduction of a portion of the 5% of the squares it offers to enter new students in the next course. Reduced pitches... [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, I know they don't care much. The Education Councillor is paying close attention. If you don't mind... yes, that's what you have to take care of me, but you too, or at least let us have a quiet dialogue -- I say -- [[Murmurs.]] You're doing a little... It was an appreciation, I don't know if Mr Pazos — who is somewhat euphoric lately — has any problem with the matter. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The other day I said I had some fans there and he got upset. You, more than they do, are becoming a little into my Hater; a little troll too, sometimes. But anyway, if you don't mind, I'll keep talking to the Education Advisor, if you give me your permission. Of course! [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. Mr. President, you have an aspirant to the president here. Well, he's got two, he's got Mr. Tellado too. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u177	You just have to choose.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u178	You just have to choose, indeed. I'll let you choose between those two. Actually, with friends like that, who wants enemies?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u179	It's a serious matter of politics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u180	It's a serious matter, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u181	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u182	May I? Yeah? [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, I don't ask for permission, but it's a matter of education. If you talk to me, I'll try to help you. You don't understand that, but it's okay. Well, Counsellor, we have a problem, because we believe that the proposal to reduce entry into the university of medical studies contradicted our analysis — which I do not know if you share — that there is a personal problem. We know that this is a university proposal, of course, it is not the Union that directly proposes the number of squares, but we know, as everyone knows and you know, that the Union has the final ability to decide and influence this decision. What do we think? From our point of view, there are two ways to take this proposal: the first, of course, to assume that there is no personal problem, as you have been defending the Council of Galicia for a long time, and therefore that such a reduction would be acceptable, because one of the arguments being maintained is that the university is offering training at the highest possible level of its resources, that the incorporation of the Bologna Plan makes it difficult to extend the number of squares and that the means — normally material and also human resources — in terms of university staff — make it difficult to provide more training. And that, at least for now, would make it difficult to expand the number, and that's why the proposed reduction. From our point of view, there's a second option. The second would be to accept that there is really a problem of staff in the healthcare system and that, therefore, we have a capacity to solve that problem — in addition to many other measures — by increasing or at least not reducing the number of students entering medical school at the University of Santiago, which you know — I assure — that it is one of the fewer abandonment rates, which is virtually null and void, and therefore it is important to take advantage of all possibilities. This second has sometimes a problem for the Government of the Union, which is to accept that it is a position of the Socialist Party. You sometimes have some difficulty accepting that, but we don't intend to make the proposal a homeland. If you share it, you can assume it as your own, the important thing is that the problem is solved. To reconsider this would mean to the extent possible to reconsider the decision or proposal of the university. Yes, what we are considering is to accompany this decision or this measure of new investments and a medium- and long-term planning that allows for increased material resources — there is a forecast of new facilities — and also humans to be able not only to re-establish the current situation, but also to assess the possibility of progressively increasing students' entry into medicine in the coming years. Why? Because that would allow us to have a certain scholarship for further students in the future — and already starting to predict it now — to have a plan for application and allocation of resources necessary to the system in order to be able to incorporate more MIR students. Why? Because, if we can have more specialists training, we'll have more ease to reach the specialists we need in the future. This isn't going to solve the problem for the next year or within two years, because we're talking about a ten-year-old education, but it can work... yes... Mr. President, I have no problem in dialogue, if you let me, but, as my proposal is that it's all over Spain... so I said work for... I didn't say I did. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] I know it's a Ministry thing, you who...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u183	No, they don't dialogue, because if they don't, this is unsustainable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u184	If you want, I'll explain how the MIR system works. I don't know him much, I know him much better, Mr. Aurelio Núñez, for example, and you can explain him. But if you don't mind, Mr. Rodríguez, can I keep talking? It's just that it's very complicated that... but it's that, if I have no problem, but... In any case, if we can do this training work and increase that number of squares, we can work to have a greater number of students who are trained in the MIR system and thus solve the problem of training. In any case, this — as I said — is a medium- and long-term job because it's almost ten years old and it wouldn't solve the problem tomorrow. But if it would solve things like we are now giving up being able to make substitutions in pediatrics — which is the case that is very alert lately — because we have been demanding many groups — the first Socialists — that are working to expand the number of MIRs that can be formed. And not nine years ago you're already having a problem now because you might be giving the results now. In any case, our approach is to know what the position of the Government of the Union is: if you think that there is no health problem, then the university proposal is acceptable, or if you think — as we believe — that there is a problem there is a need to reconsider that position. And so we would think -- if that is your position -- if there is a second phase, that is to consider that in the future we can aspire to or pose an increase in squares to the extent that material and human resources are possible, and if even from the Galician Union itself it is considered to be able to increase those resources so that we can have more student squares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u185	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u186	...his tone, his tone, and his attention, I await his proposal and his answer on the subject in order to initiate a certain debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u187	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u188	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, it gives the impression that you would like this plea to be executed or answered, in this case, by the Health Counsellor. And perhaps your exposure has always been mostly speaking of health care personnel, but certainly there is no correlation between what you put here and the questions you ask. You ask five questions in which you quote the university degree, the Faculty of Medicine and the University of Santiago. With which, perhaps there's a double one; but, in any case, I have no problem with answering you, essentially the question you are asking, explicitly regarding what your questions are, which is from access, in this case, to training at the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Santiago. I don't know if it's a mistake on your part or if you've noticed that in the proposal you've made, and I'm going to try to explain it as best as possible, because there's a start error that to some extent leaves without argument all the exposed to you. You're talking about a reduction in squares in the offer of the University of Santiago Medical School, and that's fake. You give it in fact, you plant it as something that has already been decided, and it's wrong and seriously confusing -- we understand -- a proposal from the university itself that makes USC with the final decision it takes in the relevant organs, which I'll tell you later. It confuses a part with everything and, from there, designs and initiates a political strategy of attack on the central government, in this case, on health personnel. Believe me, Mr. Torrado, that I could politically tell you: there is no such reduction of squares, there is no such decision. This interpellation is absolutely hasty and lacks any foundation; and I could sit quietly. I would have fulfilled because politically this is the message. But as I know that neither you personally, nor your group, nor this House deserves a response like that, but you have to explain why this political statement is being put forward, I will try to give a technical explanation of how they are being launched, how the last decision of a fair number, a certain number of squares in a faculty, in particular, in this case, in the Faculty of Medicine, because basically your five questions are oriented about what the Council of Galicia thinks about an information, or a proposal, in this case, of the university body, of the USC Governing Council. The technical part is regulated by the LOU in Articles 43 and 44. So let's talk about the competences, about who has the competences to determine the university squares in different public universities, and also about how the admission limits of students, students' admission limits are set. It's not an arbitrary process, much less, it's not that it's decided in a cheerful way, not much less. Here is a procedure, which in addition to this specific career, in this specific degree, has a very important specificity, which is that we have to have a direct correlation, in this case, with the health service, with Sergas, where most of the future professionals will go to. Well, in this case, Junta, during the month of March, what she does is she asks the universities to tell her how many squares they want to offer in each of the titles. Usually the titles, through permanent commissions — to a lesser extent of the clauses — are planted at the Galician Council as many squares as they want or understand that they should offer in the next academic course. Subsequently, the Union, in coordination with the three universities, makes a proposal, and that proposal raises it, in this case, to a state body, to a ministerial body, to the University Policy Conference. In the case of the Faculty of Medicine, there is a specific body which regulates the number of squares offered or which will be offered in this case at the university level. This body is the Council for the Coordination of Clinical Teaching in Galicia, which is where the number that Galicia subsequently refers to the Sectoral Conference on University Policy is fixed. You take a publication of a media release, in particular on February 23, from the figure put by the Government Council, heard the Permanent Commission of the Faculty of Medicine, in respect of a particular number, 342, and it is curious that you only read that aspect, which only reads that line where that number is fixed and which is based on its argument, because the same day, in another medium of communication, if it says that it is not a decision taken, that it is not a decision taken in any case, and even if it is made clear in some newspapers that in other courses the proposal proposed by the Governing Council of the USC is not, in the end, the one adopted by the Clinical Doctive Council and that it has normally been in recent years — so it has increased the number of the proposal made, in this case, by the USC. In this Council for the Coordination of Clinical Education there are hospitals, representatives of hospitals, there are the three universities, there is Sergas and there is the Education Council and the Health Council, and there is a number, which is not an arbitrary number, but based on a report made by Sergas in which a rather approximate number is proposed according to the needs of the system; and in that number we take into account casualties, new services, social demands, etc. This is subsequently sent to the State-level Conference to the University Policy Conference. By the way, I can tell you that the Clinical Education Council will take place on April 11, and then it will be sent to the General University Policy Conference on June. So, you put here a whole initiative based on just one assumption, on a hypothetical assumption, and from there you build an account that you're trying to misjudge the teaching role, or somehow criticize Galician staff policy. What is true of you is that you are questioning, as you can see in the questions you make, a decision by the Governing Council of the USC, because you pose all your assertion, all your story, all your statement on the scene, based on a data provided by the Governing Council of the USC that will not or may not be, because you later have to go through the Clinical Teaching Council, in the autonomic field, and by the Sectoral Conference, at the state level. With which, the demands made in that council I believe they have always been, that they have always adjusted to the needs of the system; it is Sergas who determines that data, obviously, along with the universities, and I believe that, Mr. Torrado, has sinned — if I allow the expression — politically of precipitation. I believe that it has been hasty and I believe that I should, in this particular area, perhaps have asked before, because I am sure you would ask yourself first what is the process of selecting students from the Faculty of Medicine — which is not what I put here, but what is why you ask in writing in your text — because you would surely realize that this inquiry is meaningless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u189	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor for the replica round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u190	Thank you, President. I didn't doubt the type of your answer, Counselor; in fact, I'd rather you answer me because it's a matter that has to do with university, of course. Now, I'm surprised you're surprised that I'm talking about the health system, as if it had nothing to do with it. That's more, since you appeal to the question, I'm going to read the first sentence: "The human resources policy of the Galician Union, which corresponds to the health issue, is a scourge for the proper functioning of the system." Well, starting like this, it seemed surprising to him that he had talked to him about the staff policy of the Galician Union in the health field, and I'm actually surprised that he was surprised. But it's more... you, Counselor, tell me there's a relationship and there's a specificity. [[Applause]] Tell me about direct correlation with Sergas. What's more, tell me there's a report from Sergas that they have to ask. By the way, if you don't mind, we'd like to count on that report, which we assume is no problem. So you're recognizing me that there's a direct relationship between the health care system and the health care system in Galicia and the training offered at the university. Of course we know the procedure, Counselor. You come from the University of Santiago, and so do I; of course we know the procedure. Something quite obvious happens here, and you don't want to answer your valuation. You don't want to offer the Government's answer about whether the proposal is right or wrong, because, of course, it's a proposal, but we asked about your valuation. You tell me, it's just that you're criticizing a Council decision. Look, it's the same thing that happens to you as I am, if it's a decision you haven't made. But we appreciate the proposal. What's the board's decision about that? It's more, it's not taken, and you know it as well as I do, because it's usually taken at the end of March, and in this case, which coincides with Holy Week in the middle and there's an election process at the university. You know that these are the conditioners, you know it much better than I do, because, besides being branch advisor, you've known the institution for a long time than I have. But about this, which is limited information that affects this question, believe me, we know the same thing. I didn't expect you to question the training now or not on questions. In any case, you don't want to answer, because you don't. What is your assessment, Counselor? Is there a need for fewer squares or more squares? Or are you going to do like other years and correct the proposal? Because you know there's going to be an offer downstairs. And our question is easy: do you consider this proposal to be successful and will you accept it? Do you think it's necessary to re-conduct it and re-adjust it to have the same thing we had last year, like they did several times? Or are they even going to reschedule to put on more, like they've done some year? It's just that you have given all the answers. So we want to: what is your proposal? And, of course, we're dealing with Sergas' needs, because we think there's a staff problem and we think that, because there's a staff problem, we have to be as many students as possible, given the existing resources, and we also believe that it's necessary to implement resources in the training system to have more students so that we can then have more MIRs and then we can have more specialists. If that's the natural chain of decision, from our point of view, it has to be increased. From his government, what is it? Because that's the object of the interrogation. You do well not to answer, but for me, that you don't want to answer, it's a fairly obvious answer. You don't want to offer your valuation. And we asked: What is the valuation? The university makes a proposal, what are they going to do? What are you going to do? That's the question. I admit to you that in a good way and in a good way... and I'd rather you answer me because for now it's an area that corresponds to your area. I would also like you to answer at the outset, to see if we can reach any agreement, because until now it is true that I had little luck with the Health Counsellor, with which, we disagree so much, that it is difficult to reach an agreement, and it would not be up to him to deal with this issue directly. But give me an answer, or that's what we thought. We've come here to ask the Government to give us some answers. You can, if you want, copy the president's model, ask me about Zapatero and give me a control session to me, but, look, I don't know if that's going to take us somewhere. There's a college proposal. Do you think that when they have to decide — which they have to decide — that they will accept this proposal, or will they re-run it? Are they going to retrain it to match the 360 now or are they going to increase it? It's pretty simple. You've already done the part of trying to shake the answer, well. Now he's got a second replication, that's where they're starting to answer, and he's also criticizing, because there's no possibility of an answer. But only with an answer — they have five minutes — can you give it to me. What are you going to do with that proposal: accept the reduction or believe that it is not necessary? Because we think it's not, and you guys, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u191	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Close the gap, Mr. Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Torrado, I have made an effort to be didactic in my explanation and to explain how it is the procedure in order to be able to set the final number that is sent to the Sectoral Conference on University Policy in the ministerial field to be able to have the number that offers the University of Santiago — i.e. Galicia — for the university squares. I tried, I tried to be very didactic, but you ask me a question that has no answer, because that decision is not an arbitrary matter that this counselor or other advisor or a rector or other rector makes, but it is based on a consensus and is based on technical reports made, in this case, by Sergas regarding future, hypothetical demands of professional futures. In the field of the Clinical Teaching Council is in which one decides how many professionals there will be. You put 342 — that is, the date proposed by the University of Santiago — is a wrong date. You know that with that figure you're questioning the U.S.C. Governing Council; absolutely, freedom. What is the response from the board? The response of Junta will be agreed with the universities, hospitals and between both councils, health and education, in the field it has to be, which is the Clinical Teaching Council. The offer floats, there have been years where it has been in 400 the offer, for example in 2010 or 2011; in 2006 and 2007, in 260; today we are in 360; i.e., it floats. And this isn't arbitrary, and one day someone gets to say the number "x." No, it's based on a diagnosis, a demographic study, a demographic forecast of needs, and hence decisions are taken, not arbitrarily, which somehow questions what is proposed. Home!, you too, to some extent, question that the Faculty of Medicine of Santiago, which is Galician, has the ability to form or not the future doctors. It's Spain's major faculty. The faculty that has a greater number of Spanish medical teachers is ours, and this council, this Galician board, this government has a commitment to this faculty I think it is undisputable. We have a project running from a new college, as I think it's known by everyone. Very recently, a very important agreement has been reached for the whole of health education and health service: that the three universities, all of which have healthcare professionals, are coordinated and that clinical teaching can be done at all hospitals in the country — something fundamental to coordination — or will not deny us that we have recently put in place a shock plan to provide human resources with this faculty — of the most important of the university system, without any doubt. With which, there is a commitment I believe that this government is very clear and very evident with the Faculty of Medicine of Galicia, because it is obvious that the future of health passes through this initial Slavonic. So, again, I repeat: the number of college squares doesn't decide on USC, it doesn't decide on board, it doesn't decide on an arbitrary basis; it's decided on a procedure, according to a series of technical analyses, and in this Clinical Doctrine Council that we will have on April 11 it will be evaluated and made the decision, best for the system, so that there will never be any future professional deficits at any time. Because those who enter college today are going to be professionals within seven, eight, nine or ten years; that is, the future of health comes through the decisions we make today. You don't have the slightest doubt that there won't be any kind of frivolity or melancholy in making this decision. So, I insist on what I said earlier: if your political goal, somehow, was to desecrate USC, not tell us, because you're questioning a USC decision, or if it's to desecrate the Clinical Teaching Council, it's not to count on us either. I'm simply telling you that we have a good faculty of medicine — obviously, you can improve, without any doubt, the largest in Spain, which teaches in a coordinated manner with the three universities and that the decisions of future doctors, that is, the number of students who are going to enter the Faculty of Medicine today, are a completely regulated procedure that nobody decides on it arbitrarily; it has a methodology that up to now I think it has contributed to improving the profession and improving the prestige of the profession. I think, in that sense, you were hasty and personally mistaken when you took a figure on the U.S.C. Governing Council as an absolutely closed figure and that's why you built a speech to attack the Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u193	Thank you, Counselor. Mr José Manuel Lago Peñas and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Galician Union in relation to the impact of the current model of revaluation of tax pensions on the purchasing power of pensioners in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u194	Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u195	Good morning. We're talking about pensions once again. And, whenever we do, we find ourselves with that the German Government often slips the bulk away from being self-competence. But we understand that today you can't circumvent the question we're asking. We asked you specifically your opinion on the current model of re-valorization of contribution pensions, which removed the IPC as a reference to re-valorize them. We understand that this question cannot be circumvented. In addition, given that in 2019 the so-called "sustibility factor" also comes into force, which is to penalise the increase in life expectancy — and we will explain how it affects — we think that it cannot circumvent the question of the Greek Government, for three main reasons. One is because it's a cut more for people retired from Greece, who are already the most disadvantaged in the state. This has to do with the powers that the Union has in the field of social policy. In our country, the crisis was to accentuate that income from poverty that was paid by pensions. Because, even from the lowest in the state, they have made family support — especially from the consequences of the economic crisis. In this sense, of course, if social policy is within the competence of the Union, it should be alarmed that, with approximately 30% of households claiming their income as a pension, they are serving as a support against poverty. And, besides, I said, being the German pensions of the lowest in the state, with 788 euros gross per month — average — compared to 932 of the state average. So a Galician pensioner charges 2.534 euros less than the state average. Much worse is the case of autonomous people, much worse in women, and much worse in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense. So you can't circumvent the matter. There are reforms that further penalize older people, which will cause a serious deterioration in the material living conditions of the older people in our country, who already have very low pensions. They cannot circumvent the question of their competences — worth redundant — in social policy. Secondly, of course they can't circumvent the issue either, since I'm the same party that cuts in Madrid. What is more, the Galician People's Party has been the step forward on this postcrisis policy path — although we are theoretically entering, or we are already entering, an accist phase of the economic cycle — in these policies that continue to cut rights and accentuate the serious consequences of the crisis. And they can't finally elude her because they support a policy, we understand, unconstitutional. The People's Party, the patriot of 155, is using the Constitution as a fucking mess where it's cutting rights. However, respect for constitutional requirements as regards guaranteeing rights is not done. It seems to us that the elimination of revaluation according to IPC is unconstitutional for two reasons: first, because it is contrary to Article 50, but also because it affects pensions caused prior to the reform. It's a matter of defence, it's a question of a measure that has retroactive effects. And, for us, this pension revaluation mechanism is fundamental to guaranteeing that constitutional right to decent retirement. It's a fundamental question of social rights. It's about protecting older people from the obvious risks and difficulties that lead to old age, and it's also a population that has no other way of raising their income, practically, than this re-valorization of pensions. For us, and not only for us but for all serious experts, the new model of revaluation implies a constant loss of purchasing power, in addition to being opaque, arbitrary and leaving quite a margin to discretion in its application. Let's see, for example, what happened in 2017. With the application of the 2013 standard, the Greek pensioners lost purchasing power. If prices rose by an average of 2.1%, even with that ridiculous 0.25% update, 1.85 points were lost. On the letter received by pensioners, many German pensioners consider it to be a joke, which the Government mocked them, when they receive a letter that almost costs as much as what nominally raised their pension in the month. Because, in order for the current rate of revaluation — this new method — to be positive, the number of pensioners would have to be reduced, or they would have to drastically reduce pension spending, which is what they want, or increase the income due to contributions in a very broad way. Thus, for us, pensions will continue to lose purchasing power. Because if the IPC is going to be, on average, 2% in the next few years, we figure there will be a loss of 40% of the purchasing power of pensions. But this is also one of the factors of sustainability, which is another of the reforms. And since we are, we also asked him what he thinks about her. Because the advance of your application is having an opposite effect, it's having an "affect called" to advance retirement and therefore is increasing pension spending. The delay in the ordinary retirement age, let's remember, it already has something to do with the increase in life expectancy. And now there's a new one -- let's say -- "imposed to an increase in life expectancy." Because we consider, for example, a period of thirty years, from 2019 to 2049. If the current evolution of life expectancy were to be maintained, when this formula was applied, we would place the decline in the initial pension between 9% and 18% — the new formula — in place. Thus, spending on the State would range from 0,2 % of GDP in 2040 to 0,7 % in 2060. In terms of percentage savings, the estimate is 5% in 2060. Thus, the initial pension will be reduced by 0.5 % in the first year of application, by 2019. We're talking about an attack on the German and German pensioners. That's why we ask you to think about all these reforms that affect the lack of re-valorization of pensions and that go against the constitutional precept of decent pensions. Speaking only of the competences of the Board's competitive framework, they would also have gone far enough to improve the lives of older people, providing many more services of care for the elderly, increasing, for example, aid for non-contributory pensions or acting, above all, in active employment policies that contribute to an improvement in the financing of the system through contributions; or also — that we will have the opportunity to propose to them in this House — legislating on a social income model that guarantees to complete those incomes of those people who have less, who receive less than 60% of the average wage, something which, of course, is not a radical measure of En Marea but a measure which the European Parliament itself has agreed. So it's a model question. For us it's a fallacy that the idea that we're trying to make sure that public pension systems are not sustainable, when what's not sustainable are private pension systems, which, because of the crisis, have had a tremendous reduction in their capitalization. And we are alarmed that, just now, when we're at an elevated stage of the economic cycle, we're not able, if not able, to recover the contributions because the precarious work is installed. We are alarmed that the Government of the People's Party does not act against this dramatic reality and that, above all, it tries to carry on the backs of present and future pensioners this lack of policies. One data also on the system's sustainability: since 1982, the amount of pension increased exponentially, the pensioners doubled and the system was sustainable. The system's over. Why, if we take into account the demographic forecasts and if this increase is not going to take place in both the number of pensioners and pensioners, are we questioning the viability of the system? We ask him, too, if he does well today. If we don't, we'll do another interpellation on another occasion. Finally, we could also talk about alternatives that would guarantee other ways of financing the system. But we wanted to ask you specifically about what you think of the new model of pension revaluation. And not only do we ask him, but the Ombudsman has just pointed out that this non-revalization of pensions according to the IPC may be unconstitutional. It literally states in the report just published on the year 2017 that the revaluation mechanism points to a impoverishment of all pensioners who might raise doubts about the constitutional forecast that guarantees adequate, adequate and periodically updated pensions. So we believe that the Union cannot circumvent the question. What do you think of the German Government in view of this new cut in the dignity of our older people, who are already the most impoverished in the state?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u196	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u197	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, the first thing I would like to point out is the understanding of the German Government with pensioners who are protesting these days and worrying about the public pension system. I would also like to clarify that pensions are not strict in terms of an autonomous policy. I'm a state policy and, therefore, the Galician Union has no competence to fix its revaluation. Another thing is, as always, we do express our opinion. But, of course, we understand the complaints of our elders by the small linear increase in their pensions. It's more, not only do we understand them, but either one of us could join those demands, because, as active workers right now, we hope to be able to have a proper pension when we end our working life — quite close, by the way. That's why you and I, Your Honor, would agree to raise pensions more. But desires must be made compatible with the reality of available resources and priority should be given to those groups that need it most. Because the ultimate goal is only to be able to maintain the sustainability of the current public pension system, which is a very good system, a model of pensions that transcends any government. Because pensions are not paid by this central government right now, nor any other government, is a matter of state. And to make it sustainable, we consider two essential aspects: generating more and better employment, with higher wages, by consolidating economic recovery, and providing agreements within the framework of the Toledo Pact, as has been usual since 1995. In the first case, in Galicia we are putting, as the Government of Greece, all our efforts to make the job created, growing, of better quality and with higher wages. Allow me, Your Honor, to quote some data. Employment quality improves in Galicia, data is marked by a clear recovery in the past year. Thus, we have more indefinite and full-time contractors. Indefinite contracts have grown by 15.8% in the last year; that is, three out of four contracts in Galicia are undefined. Full-time contracts increased by 13.7%. In Galicia, 9 out of every 10 busy are full-time. And they're also doing a good job of wages. In fact, according to the latest data known by the INE regarding the last quarter of last year, Galicia is the second autonomous community where wages increased, both monthly and effective time worked. We're talking about about 4%, when the national average is 1%. I insist, more and better employment and with better wages will directly impact on more and better pensions for our seniors. Secondly, it is also necessary — as I have already done — to make arrangements within the framework of the Toledo Pact. And reiterating that revaluation is small, I would also like to value that the current Government of Spain has legally shielded pensions so that they will rise every year. We understand and understand the pensioners' complaints, but it does not seem so understandable that there are irresponsible political leaders who move the feeling that there are solutions that are easy to deal with such a complex problem. Let us not forget that the former socialist government has frozen pensions — one must remember, be responsible. And being responsible is making decisions and making reforms to ensure the viability and sustainability of the public pension system. It was also the previous socialist government that introduced into our system the figure of the sustainability factor, with the objective of maintaining the proportionality between contributions to the system and expected benefits of the system, and ensuring the sustainability understood as an intergenerational solidarity pact. He did so, as they also know, through Law 27/2011 of 1 August, on the updating, adequacy and modernization of the social security system. And he basically did three things: expanding retirement age to 67, expanding the period of years for the calculation of the pension and introducing the sustainability factor. By its band, the current Government of Spain, in addition to not questioning this reform, has continued to make decisions on an objective: to maintain the proportionality between contributions to the system and expected benefits, guaranteeing the present and future generations adequate and adequate pensions, as demanded by the constitutional mandate contained in Article 50 of the Constitution. The European Commission has also made recommendations, which affect not only Spain but virtually all pension systems in the European Union, to have a sustainability factor that relates to the content of the pension with the evolution of life expectancy. Another recommendation of the Toledo Pact Reform Assessment Report, adopted by the Congress of Deputies on 25 January 2011, indicates the desirability of studying, for its further analysis and evaluation by the Toledo Pact commission, the possibility of using other revaluation rates. Among them, the increase in wages, the evolution of the economy or the contribution to Social Security are cited, and it is advisable to take into account the effects that these indices had on the sustainability of the pension system at a comparative level; that is, in the countries around us. Your Honor, it is clear that the pension system and its future viability is one of the main priorities for the Government of Spain and one of the major concerns for citizens. That is why we must put aside demagogy, parties, and seek consensus within the framework of the Committee on the Covenant on Toledo. The public pension system has survived the change of government, the major economic crises, and surely it will also survive populism and demagoxy. Among all of us we have to come up with viable, equitable, supportive solutions, and — I insist — without demagoxy. Our position is already well known — it was rejected last week by a parliamentary committee — by consensus in the Toledo Pact on measures to ensure the viability of the system and to prioritise higher minimum pensions and widowhood pensions around the IPC, as the president of the Union pointed out this morning. Because, as much as some people are interested in saying so, there are no easy and immediate solutions to the pension problem. And so that we'll all be aware of the magnitude of what we're talking about, I'll only quote three data. In 2009, the number of pensioners in Galicia rose by 7,000 and the number of contributors by 50,000. In last year, Galicia has increased the number of pensioners by 4,000 and memberships have increased by 25,000. In addition, the average pension in Galicia increased by 28%, two points more than in Spain. And at this time the President of the Government of Spain proposes that in the budgets for this year — which will be presented next week — deductions for IRPF and also minimum and widow's pensions will be increased. Your budget vote will be an excellent opportunity to see if the political parties that say they want to go up these pensions allow there to be budgeting so that that climb can materialize. Since the German Government we support these measures, and we would like other House groups to leave demagogy elsewhere as well. And, finally, I'd like to remember that if we have skills like the German Government, in non-contributory pensions, we're making a very important effort. We maintain the extraordinary complement for the people who would benefit from this type of pension, which in Galicia account for 40,000 people, and we are investing 8.2 million euros. By the way, we are one of the only three communities that have this extraordinary complement in Spain. I'm done. From the German Government we will support any measure that improves the purchasing power of pensioners and guarantees the viability of the system. The best way to make it possible is to create jobs, to increase the number of taxpayers, in addition to reaching sufficient consensus within the Committee on the Toledo Pact. Galicia is doing her homework within our powers. Last year, as I told you, we added 24,926 more memberships to Social Security, and we launched policies both to create more jobs and to improve the quality of social security and, consequently, wages. Thank you very much, President. I don't think I've been around too much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u198	Thank you. Mrs Vázquez Verao's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u199	Thank you. He spoke of demagogy, but you also said, more or less textually, that they were going to continue raising pensions. And the actual reality is that in 2017 they went down. And we assume that -- the data is there -- more than they're going down. I told you before, calculating that the IPC will be on average by 2% in the next 20 years, that pensions will be lost by 40% of its purchasing power. But for you to understand something better, in nominal terms, it's like today's average pension, instead of being EUR 788, was 473. The autonomous one, instead of EUR 561 — the lowest one — had reached EUR 337. And let's not say widowers. That's the reality, in 2017 pensions went down. The question is still in force, because you said something contradictory, however. Because he said he would be in favour of all those measures that would increase the purchasing power of pensioners. Therefore, aren't you in favour of regaining the revaluation of pensions according to the IPC annually? We understand it's a very direct question, and it seems contradictory to what you just said. It seems to us that, by supporting these measures of the People's Party, all those who have declined, such as the increase in retirement age, all those who tend to cut rights to the working class, are contributing to further condemning the poverty of the Welsh pensioners. That's why we made this call. They have an opportunity to take sides with the social majority of the most disadvantaged, the largest, clearly opposed to non-revaliation according to the IPC of pensions, which is something in the Constitution. Because, of course, if we also go down to the territorial level, what will explain to the pensioners in Ourense, who charge less than 700 euros on average, or Lugo ones, who are over the 700 euros? Are you going to tell them they're going to keep raising pensions, when they're not updated according to the IPC? As for minimum pensions, of course they must be raised. And for our country it's fundamental, it's fundamental, because 31% of the population in Galicia earns this type of pension, and 38% in the case of women. But, of course, you have to raise them to a minimum. We propose about 1,000 euros. Because that's the extent to which you have to raise all kinds of income, as I told you before. We are talking about the European Parliament's own precepts, that no one has less than 60% of the average income available. This measure, by the way, would also contribute to something as fundamental in our economy as it is to recover domestic demand. Finally, the question is still alive. It seems contradictory to us what he said. He said, he just said, that he would be in favour of any measure that would contribute to increasing the purchasing power of the people of Greek pensioners. Then why is the Government of Greece not in favour of returning to the re-evaluation of pensions annually according to the IPC? And when it comes to employment, we also have to talk about the kind of job that is created. That would be another debate. But let's give you two data. You said we never gave solutions, made you demagogy, and the solutions weren't easy. But there are resources, they're not desires, they're not just desires. He spoke of desires and realities. Realities: ending with the tax benefits of private pension plans would already give us those about 2,000 million euros that would be needed to revalue all pensions. Or, for example, removing the maximum price cap, or updating it instead of freezing it, would also give extra resources. We have resources, they're not just desires, they're realities. But it's a political issue, it's about the political priorities we have. Ours is really to allow the Greek pensioners to have greater purchasing power. You also have the opportunity to explain this contradiction here. Are you in favour of re-upgrading pensions according to the IPC annually?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u200	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Close this interrogation by Mr. Conseilante de Fatenda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u201	Thank you again, Mr. President. I am very grateful for the tone with which he was exposed to his intervention, but, in essence, allow me, with all due respect, to tell him that I believe that he is handing over a certain demagogy manual. I had taken a few notes here, and I'll try to explain myself a little better. He began his first intervention — he did not do so in this first intervention, sometimes I have heard in this House the first concept, which is that of demonization, usually referred to in the PP, and other groups of the House, even today tomorrow, have used this very global resource — with an important scrutinizing tactic, putting a hand on certain figures in such a complex topic as what brings us. It turns out they're always holding out on certain numbers. However, what this Administration proposes to you, instead of being shredding a part of the figures, only one where you feel more comfortable, without questioning, in principle, the introduction of certain questions by your lordship, I think it's a much simpler way. We have already given it since 1995, and it has had a very clear evolution: the Toledo Pact, a permanent commission. There were reports of all kinds, there were reports in 2011—the penultimate. The last ones are from 2013. Why not talk about all this in the Toledo Pact, which for that is the commission? That's where we can put it. The latest changes that were introduced, which were born in 2011 and materialized, part of them, in 2013, what they are going to tell us -- as far as their big question from the second intervention, which is about the update factor, is that the update factor, at the comparative level, is not as simple as linking it to the consumer price index. In the consumer price index, when you put numbers on it, it turns out it's very easy to work with the 2.1% hypothesis, because it was the last one in the last twenty-five, thirty-five, or thirty-five years. However, at present the Banco de España — I would like to remind you that even on yesterday — what is being said to us is that the consumer price index will range from 1.2 % for 2018 to 1.4 % or 1.7 %, which is a quantity that does not invalidate its total and absolutely reasoning. But it's not that 2% that we're here manicically working. So here's an example of what I'm telling you that you're shredding the statistics in an interested way. And the way to do it is to put all of this in common and, if possible, to reach agreements within the Toledo Pact. But as far as the update factor is concerned, I would also like to comment on another very important issue for me: that we have to discuss these issues, we have to discuss why the actuator is not just the IPC. We have to talk about wage growth. And as I said earlier, when we referred to Galicia, we see that the behaviour that Galicia had in 2017 as a whole was that it was Spain's fifth community in the last quarter of the year, and the second community in both monthly and hourly terms worked. And when we look at the behavior of our young people, it turns out that we're in two and seventy percent increase, when many times in this Parliament we've heard of precariousness, precariousness, precariousness... Certain issues are not true. We need to talk to the sesera enough to figure out how much it's going to be done. I repeat — first question introduced in my first speech — that the model will work if we create jobs, more jobs, better jobs and higher wages. That's how it's happening. And to show a button — when the current system is often criticized —: 2017 is the first year, since 2008, where the increase in social security contributions keeps a rate of 5% while it was 3% rising from pension expenditure. That still doesn't cover the deficit we have right now, but it's already indicative that things are doing well. And what we must look at is the set of all the benefits we give ourselves in the welfare state in Spain and, of course, in Galicia. We have to look at it together. There are not only contributions, but new employees mean new life projects, and they can make their decisions and increase another type of income, which are also considered in the latest reports when it comes to the update factor. So let's put it all together, let's not be afraid to discuss this matter, but in a sufficient way, because we will be very grateful to the present pensioners and those we hope will be in the future. So I think it's more positive than we have on this issue. We create more and better jobs — the data are saying that the shots are going around, we look at this as a whole, we comply with all the rules we have to comply with, and we move to our citizenship the important effort this government is making at national level. Here in Galicia it is translated that the measures we are talking about at this time, so important within the state budgets for 2018, affect practically 70% of our pensioners, and we are talking about IPC environments. So, without rejecting the major, let's not just play with the short stares and move an image of the very difficult we could keep at the crisis stage, and sure, sure, that we'll also overcome demagogy. No more, and with this positive message for all our pensioners, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u202	Thank you, Counselor. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u203	There is a change in the agenda regarding the question that appears in tenth place at the question-point of the Government. It was requested your approval by the Government itself. We suspended the session until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u204	We resume the session with the seventh item on the agenda, you ask the Government, and we start with the next one. Question by D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. Mr de In Marea, on the position to be taken by the Council of Galicia in relation to the labour claims of the staff of the Administration of Justice, following the break-up of negotiations with the strike committee and taking into account the parliamentary agreement on this
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u205	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President of the Government, the workers and the workers of Justice are on their way for two months of strike, two months of suffering, first of all, of the workers themselves and workers, who have been without charge for these two months; secondly, two months of suffering for their families, where they are not entering their own wages of work as a result of the strike they are performing; and thirdly, two months of suffering for the whole population, which has been reduced by an essential public service as is the service of the Administration of Justice itself. And all of this for one reason: because of the lack of assistance by the Galician Council to the fair demands of workers and workers. Even so, during these two months, the behavior of workers and workers was exemplary, to the point where blood-giving campaigns were organized, to the point where they made communion lunches for collectives with special needs or especially vulnerable; ultimately, a demonstration, once again, of exemplary behavior in defense of the public, in defense of the common good and the public service. It particularly draws attention to the unfairness of this situation of strike when it should never have happened, and it should not have happened, and from here on we regret having to come today with this issue when it should have been solved for a long time; frankly so we consider it. And we say this because the claims they have on the table, that you are gradually accepting, that you are accepting, were the ones that unanimously agreed to this House at its session on December 4, 2017. There were four fundamental claims to which you in principle, and after the agreement of this House, they refused in the band. The first one, in relation to dignified wage conditions that placed them at least on the average of the ranking of autonomous communities in the field of administration of justice, on average at least. You even initially, in order not to access your claims, have come to invent autonomous communities for this purpose, putting Ceuta and Melilla in that ranking when they shouldn't be there. Secondly, ending with the discrimination of temporary disability, a discrimination that is suffered in the judicial office with all cruelty when it is seen that by the same flu, while in the entire judicial office half of the salary is spent on workers, judges, judges, prosecutors, lawyers of the administration of justice do not suffer from a deduction of salary. What's wrong? That the workers of Justice stop eating when they're bad, stop paying mortgages? No, Mr. Vice President. And that is why the demands have been fair and have been accepted unanimously by this House, too, for you — I want to remind you. Also the amortization plan so that the public service of Justice can be improved. It's necessary to provide personal and material resources, and the personal media were the ones that were put on the table and are still taking time to be cared for. And finally, in the substitution plan, it's absolutely discriminatory that the substitute covers less than the substitute, and that's also recognized.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u207	Thank you, Mr. Villares, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u208	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u209	Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, your question is registered two months ago, the bad thing is that you stayed in what you were talking about two months ago, and it seems like you didn't make any progress, just as you advanced in the negotiation. Look, the other day at the appearance I made my own request to talk about the strike of Justice, your partner, who was from Podemos, seems to me, today you ask me, which is from En Marea; we're going to change. You guys at the strike are going to ask me, each of you, today it's up to those of En Marea. Anyway, I'm telling you the same thing I was telling you about Podemos. Look, it's just here that you've made a lot of progress, that's not much less what you're saying. His companion -- no, they don't want him as bad as you think -- said you were one of the greatest eminences in the matter of Justice in Galicia; I don't doubt it at first. [[Murmurs.]] But, therefore, if it was one of the greatest eminences, you should know that in a matter as important as the strike of Justice, in which, by the way, the first sufferers are the citizens, eh!, with all due respect for the officials—they decided to be on strike—the first sufferers are the citizens, to whom they are denied the most essential services of the Administration of Justice. [[Applause]] You reverse the order, Mr. Villares, and perhaps you start to understand what this conflict is going on. The first ones that are suffering are the citizens, those who are being denied, in the opinion of the Galician Union — I said — many essential procedures that should even be included in the minimum services, but, in any case, with regard to officials exercising their right to strike, just as the Galician Union exercises its right to defend public budgets and to detach the corresponding emoluments to officials and officials who decide to be on strike. Look, you're referring to a parliamentary agreement. That's why I told him he's got a two-month delay. The parliamentary agreement exactly what it said was to place the wages of employees of the Administration of Justice in Galicia on average; it said: to place them with the average, not on top of them — above that is how they are now — with the average of the rest of the autonomous communities, especially in the transitional autonomic supplement. Mr. Villares, you — I suppose to fill even the time of this question — spoke to me about other points of the agreement that are agreed from the beginning practically, and you know it perfectly well. This goes nothing but from an economic claim, Mr. Villares; you know it by themselves, so they have acknowledged it; it is true that he marches forward and goes back, but in the end he is recognized by the negotiators themselves, on behalf of the workers, the unions. This goes from an economic disagreement, from officials who, legitimately -- and that's how much they're asking for -- they want to charge more, and a Galician board that has behind the back of the budgets that pay all the Greeks and all the Greeks, many of them with taxes, charging far less than these officials who are claiming. So first of all, it is clear that the complaint is going; secondly, it is known how the conflict is going; and thirdly, if you see this painting, you will see that what Parliament was asking for, what this group voted for, all these Members, I too, are agreed on. [[Mr. Rueda Valenzuela shows a chart]] So it's a two-month question, it's late. You know how this is going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u211	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u212	Mr. Rueda, you should do what the unions say: sit down at the table, because then I would hear directly what the points in conflict are. Since you're not sitting down, it must be because you don't know what the points of disagreement are right now. There are three right now. First of all, one related to depreciations. It is necessary that none of the squares that are currently being occupied, and not only those of the provincial hearings, be maintained, because these human resources are needed. So there's a point of discovery there. Secondly, with regard to IT, it is necessary that the recovery of all economic compensation as a result of IT also take into account the negotiations that are taking place in all state-level administrations of justice. And why is that? To prevent a later agreement from leaving them in inferiority again with respect to the rest of the workers and the workers. And thirdly, that of a wage character. In fact, the workers are saying that they are a position above the average of the state, not a position below, not a euro above, a position above, which is actually reaching the average of the state's workforce. And all of this is necessary for this parliamentary mandate to be fulfilled. What's a pay issue this third point? Yes, it's a question of wage dignity. First, to avoid discrimination against workers from other autonomous communities. And this is something that you shouldn't be surprised at, for one reason: because you, the People's Party, are now promoting a campaign for the State's security forces and bodies to equate their wages with those of self-government forces and security bodies, specifically in Catalonia. You are promoting this, you are promoting that kind of agreement, and on Friday we ourselves are taking to the Commission 1st agreement where you will have the opportunity to vote in favour, and we know that you will vote in favour. The question we ask ourselves is why for some workers yes and for others no? Why is that equation table on the average of the state, of body-to-body equivalence, valid for some bodies and others not valid? Do you want to explain that difference? And secondly, what's not fair, what's not fair, is that you're being questioned with a salary raise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u213	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u214	...to all the workers of Justice, when the government itself, starting with its president, rose the salary last year by 7.5%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u215	Thank you, Mr. Villares, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u216	As soon as 7,5 % is not recovered for the set of workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u217	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you. Mr. Villares, your time is up. [[Applause]] Thank you. It's over, Mr. Villares, it's over, Mr. Villares, it's over. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] They're not listening. Mr. Villares, you're not listening to him because he has no active microphone, the microphone is not active. [[Murmurs.]] Man, of course, I took him out of here because his time is over. Nothing has been recorded, but you know what mechanics is like; I try to be... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u218	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, the last argument, that of the raise of wages, you have already left him to the end, when I knew he was running out of time, so he wouldn't listen to him. It's an argument that is absolutely a lie and you dare not say it or most of the unions; you are, because you're with the unions who don't want it to be agreed; I have it clear from the beginning. Now, tell those unions that at least it contains what's going on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Villares, I'm not sitting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u219	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u220	Not by interrupting me will be more right, Mr. Villares. I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u221	Mr. Villares, please, you're a spokesman. You're the spokesperson for the group, eh! You should also know how this matter is going, right? That you can't interrupt, and you're the spokesman. Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u222	I could tell you that you're kidnapping my parliamentary activity and I'm going to make an inquiry. But suppose, Mr. Villares, that if you say so in Parliament and you don't care, much more in this Chamber, you won't react, say here or say somewhere else. [[Applause]] Look, I'm not at the negotiating table because the unions didn't want to, precisely because... you don't understand what this is about. With all due respect to the workers and the workers, the worst affected are the citizens, who do not receive those services, and I asked that the strike be suspended so they would receive those services, not even for the days that the negotiation lasted, because they are the truly damaged. Focus on it, Mr. Villares. It's in the situation of the thousands and thousands of citizens who are not receiving such basic service. You should know how basic the administration of justice service is, if you haven't forgotten it yet, and perhaps you understood what the problem is. Now tell me no, economics is one more part, that the important are other agreements that are not reached. It's better than the unions don't either. I'm telling you you don't have any information. If all the unions are saying that these points are agreed. And if not, I ask you one question: why are you voting right now if you can either lower the €1900 or not, if the economy is the least? Because it's a question of unions that we now find out they didn't consult the workers, it's the first time they're going to ask them, whether the absolutely maximalistic positions they're having at the negotiating table are valid or not valid, Mr. Villares. [[Murmurs.]] Why is it that this is not the economic and referendum that is being done today, the consultation is simply of economic content? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Villares, the offer is 14%, the Galician board's offer exactly meets, which is as much as saying the offer of all the Greeks and Greeks, who pay with their taxes, many of them who earn less than those officials and, of course, much less than you and me, but less than you, that you earn more than me, also talking about rising wages. You have this clear to start by transmitting to all these officials that the unions in their union war are not telling you the truth, that they have on the table an offer of between 3,500 and over 4,000 euros a year per official, that they have on top of an offer that meets exactly what was agreed upon in this Parliament and that they have some Members who want the strike of Justice to end in order that citizens above all receive a fundamental service, and they have other Members, like you, who are asking questions on commitment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u223	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u224	...and that they have no information, and that the strike ends seems to interest them less than any union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u225	Thank you, Mr. Rueda. Question of Da María Luisa Pierres López and four other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the intentions of the Galician Union regarding the implementation of effective measures to counter all inequalities reported by women in the demonstrations of 8 March 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u226	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u227	Thank you, President. Mr. Rueda, this morning Mr. Feijóo reminded us that before March 8th, the Government had undertaken to listen with respect and attention to what the women had expressed in the street, something you are not doing right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u228	Who's going to answer you is the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u229	Okay. I was informed that it was Mr. Rueda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u230	No, the Government, the Government. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, quiet, please. But this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u231	Keep this in mind.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u232	I'm not responsible for that. No, no, the Government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But please, this has always been the case. Answer the Government. There are more government members in the room, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u233	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u234	Man, please! That's how we got there. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. It's over. That's it, it's over. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Go on. Quiet. Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u235	Listen with respect and attention — I said — Then he told us some of the equality measures and plans that were put in place with his Government. And the feeling that we have in the Socialist Group is that it seems that these measures leave him quiet and full of merit, so to speak, pioneering in some of them. We socialists always work for equality, putting in place the Dependency Act, the Equality Law and the German Equal Labour Law, which approved President Touriño and which you have obeyed and have not for years, now trying to wash your conscience with the announcement of a conciliation law. [[Applause]] But equality is not to boast of merit. That's why we ask them to stop sucking for starting paper measures. Because remembering what happened in the past and concluding that it was a success is not to listen with attention and respect, but to note that they have not understood anything about the message of the Greek women. And I tell you that today we are accompanied by a representative of women with disabilities in Galicia, of the Accader Association, in addition to Daniel, a boy who works from Bueu to see from culture, in many of his actions, women. All of them, and others who will be united in a moment, are people involved in equality. And so do you with this word, with the implication. The implication is when one believes in something and you, before March 8, do not believe in the important and necessary of this feminist movement. And alone, only the massive presence of women in the streets can move them to the only motivation that you care about equality, which is vote. But, as we see them frankly, lack of active listening, I'm going to try to explain to them what the implication we're asking of them is. I'm going to show you a series of graphs that refer to the last five years. The first refers to average wages of men and women in Galicia, always in parallel, and always women below men; it's the green line. [[Mrs. Pierres López shows some graphics]] We follow: half pensions; women, always under and always in parallel. Third graph: part-time work; it's done: it's the only thing women are on top of, sad privilege. And to finish, this is the graph that should be given with equality in Galicia, one in which men and women walk in equality, in a single-line graph, in an ascending sense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u236	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u237	Because we want to go with, not against, not below or above. They get involved and cause this turning point now, not within a hundred years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u238	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u239	And tell us, specify us, what effective measures will be put into practice to avoid keeping that distance that feeds inequality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u241	...and that you can get this graph to be this unique and ascending line. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u242	Thank you. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pierres, I have listened to it with all due respect and with all due attention and I hope that you will do the same, especially with respect and attention, because this logically is not a monologue, because often, when this kind of debate takes place, the Government moves the concrete answers, but often it does not want to enter the debate. Because look, the Galician Union has been working on gender equality since women's employment for twenty-five years, twenty-five years, not four or five, or ten, no, twenty-five years. And — as you should know — the I Action Plan was adopted in 1992, the 1992-1994 Action Plan. He also knows that the first Equality Act dates back to 2004. So with the law you refer to, it seems that equality begins with the Bipartite; I have already shown you that this is not the case, because the law of 2007 is a rule that has actually strengthened this commitment to equality by the Galician Union. Therefore, Your Honor, of course this government took note of the event on 8 March, of course this government is listening to all the sensibilities with regard to equality and of course this government has taken action and will continue to take measures for equality. The first of these is this I-Plish plan of conciliation and co-responsibility, a new plan that adds up all the ongoing efforts in terms of equality and also continues with the development of the female employment program. But, Mrs. Pierres, I believe that, frankly, denying, as you are doing, that we have all advanced together in women's equalization, including work, is simply a lack of memory that I believe the Greek society doesn't deserve. In any case, I'm going to provide you with data, because if we go back to employment data, we've created 10,000 jobs in the last year, the weight of female membership is the largest in all autonomous communities. Finally, we are taking measures that are also allowing wage deviations between women and men to be lower than the average of Spain in Galicia. And these are all the measures that allow us to move forward together: the Government, this parliamentary group and logically also the rest of the parliamentary groups. So equality, Your Honor, is not a heritage of the Socialist Party of Galicia, equality is a heritage of all, and we are all working on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u244	Thank you, Counselor. Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u245	Mr. Count, with all due respect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u246	Wait, wait, wait. I'm sorry, I haven't had time yet. Thank you. Mrs. Pierres' reply. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u247	Mr. Count, with all due respect, I don't think you understand the concept of parallelism. It's when no tension is produced, no encounter point, no turning point. These graphics are very revealing. If you don't see them, logically you'll never understand them. [[Mrs. Pierres López shows some graphics]] [[Applause]] The World Economic Forum of 2017 has predicted that at the current pace it will take a hundred years, a hundred years, to achieve equality. That powerful date is the one that has partially mobilized all the Galicians on March 8th. We women no longer have patience, we no longer want stories, no promises, no plans, no measures left in the paper. Don't tell us that the strategy is going to continue to bet on the current policies, because that's clearly betting the losing horse. Do you really think that, when a strategy is shown, over the years, ineffective to reduce the distance of inequality and unable to find the graphics lines at any point, should you continue to bet on it? Don't you think what the Greek women passed on to you is that you have to reconsider the course, because nothing is moving in the right direction? Don't you realize that this is like walking against the wind, with advances and setbacks, but moving away from the goal that we pursue? I understand that it is difficult to understand when one is neither involved nor motivated by what he does, and it is normal for them to give up and lose interest in what they do when the group in which they are members has qualified — in Mr. Tellado's mouth — the 8-M movement as the most machist that could be done, which was intended to be a sex war and that it would be, Mr. Tellado, to divert the shot from the struggle by gender equality. [[Applause]] And instead of diverting, Mr. Tellado, I'm going to give you the reason, because what you're trying to do is that this graph is diverting, precisely, that tendency to parallelism, which happens once and for all the voltages. Effective measures are put in place; the word "effectiveness". We're shown with data that trends and distances are reversed. And, then, yes, then they will show the necessary respect, attention, motivation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u249	...and involvement, which is what the women demanded of you briefly on March 8th. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u250	Thank you. Close this question, Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact is that the Socialist Party of Galicia comes here to teach equality lessons is at least surprising. And I'm telling you this with all due respect, because... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u252	Quiet, please! Silence! Quiet, quiet. If not... Please don't interrupt what's in the use of the word. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I'm here to control, Mr. Losada, as far as I can for now. Thank you. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u253	And I'm telling you this because, logically, the Government is taking action, it's taking measures that you obviously did in your intervention, with very specific data. By giving you just one data: last year this councillor, the Employment and Industry Council, devoted 71 million euros to facilitating the integration of women's work, and this means more than half of the entire budget of the employment guidance and programming programmes. These are concrete measures that you want to minimize, and what I would ask you is, what is the magic formula of the Socialist Party of Galicia? Because surely you could bring here the measures that are taking in those autonomous communities in which you rule, and it turns out that in all, in all autonomous communities where the Socialist Party governs, in all, there are worse equality data than in Galicia, which is curious, lordship, which is curious. [[Murmurs.]] You can see how the pay gap of Asturias, Aragon, Valencia and Andalusia is bigger than the one in Galicia. You can see that Extremadura, Andalusia and Castile-A Mancha have higher female unemployment rates in Spain. That more than 40% of the inactive women in Castela-A Mancha, Balearics and Extremadura are precisely these autonomous communities where they reflect, precisely by developing the work of the home. And in addition, in all those communities, lordship, ruled by the Socialist Party, the percentage of women engaged in elementary occupations is higher than in Galicia, Your Honor. To come here to teach lessons — I insist — of equality the Socialist Party of Galicia is at least surprising. We, Your Honor, will continue to bet on equality, we will continue to bet on women, we will continue to bet on measures that allow a positive target with a 25% increase in employment aid, we will continue with the help of maternity or paternity conciliation, we will also follow up on integrated employment programmes directed specifically for women, we will develop a new edition of the Executive Programme, we will also increase 60% of the aid to promote equality and reconciliation and social and business responsibility and we will continue to work, working with the Galego Labour Relations Council, to address precisely measures for equal pay. Finally, Your Honor, we will continue to bet on equality and logically expect the Socialist Party of Galicia to join this initiative as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u254	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Tellado, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u255	On the basis of article 76, for allusions and inaccuracies, to clarify to Mrs. Pierres what I said, which is not what she said I said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u256	He was alluded to. He's got a shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u257	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u258	Please! Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u259	The truth is, I didn't have any interest in intervening on this subject, because I think you've already responded conveniently...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u260	Silence, please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u261	...the counsellor. I wouldn't like my words to be interpreted. And, therefore, Mrs. Pierres, at a strike, I did not qualify any collective of anything. What I said is that a strike call, which is a fundamental right, to which only 50% of the population is summoned, is a masquerading call. I said it then, and I repeat it now, in case there's any doubt about you. And that, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u262	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u263	...the fight for equality is a joint struggle between men and women in our society. [[Applause]] If you think that only women can achieve equality in our society, they're very wrong. This is not a struggle of women against men, it is a struggle of women and men against machoists.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u264	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u265	I think in your intervention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u266	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u267	...there was no doubt a macho attitude. I'm the only one I can tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u268	Silence! Mr. Lake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u269	...is that since our party we would like that, when we approve Galicia's first equality law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u270	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u271	...supported and driven by a People's Party government, she was supported by her party. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u272	Please, please! Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Every Member must know the Rules of Procedure, and he has a three-minute turn. If we don't read the Rules of Procedure, we don't know. Allusions have three minutes and they have no replica. Let's start by knowing the regulations. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you don't agree with the Rules of Procedure, change them, but all agree. The Rules of Procedure are clear. The debate is over. It's closed, it's over. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Forgive me, you, for one thing, it's not in the use of the word. So what you have to do is keep quiet. Silence! Let's move on to the next question. Question from Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members from the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the deadline set by the Government of Greece for the bidding of the dredging project and regeneration of the background of the river Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u273	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u274	Thank you, President. Well, there's a saying in law that says: in claris there was no interpretation. And indeed, there is no need to interpret your words, Mr Tellado. [[Murmurs.]] Counsellor, these two photographs are from the port of Pontevedra, full of mud and mud; mud and mud in the bottom of the river and ever more mud, counselor. [[Mrs. Vilan Lorenzo shows pictures]] We have to spend about ten years. From Pontevedra to Ports of Galicia a project was requested for dredging and regeneration of the bottom of the river, about five kilometers, between the bridge of Burgo and the dike of the Praceres. It was over time and in 2009 José Manuel Álvarez-Campana, who was president of Galician ports, announced not only the dredging but also that they were going to install a sea station and a line of passengers through the Pontevedra River. Today it's impossible to pass almost with a pirague through that area, and much less ships on a line of passengers. At the end of 2016, the current president of Ports de Galicia, Mr Durán, said that at the end of this year the project would be completed and bid. There were allegations, we've been almost ten years and we don't know anything about this project, so we came here today to ask you. We believe that from an environmental, sporting, tourist point of view, from a seafood and fishing point of view it is essential to open up the stream and it is essential this dredging and this regeneration of the bottom of Pontevedra's river because, if not, the laugh will go blind, and the result is in the photos, it's obvious, and you also know it well, counselor. We know that this project is a ghost project. We don't know what it takes for you to finish it, how many allegations have been made, what you answered those allegations, what budget will there be for this project, if you continue with that idea of putting a sea station in the old port of the Corbaceras, what you will do with the waste, with sediments coming out of the bottom of the river and where they will be taken, where they will be deposited. How do we know nothing, and we know that in Pontevedra the concern is very great, not only by the Town Hall itself, which so woke him up, but also by the naval club, by the confrereries, by the bottom of the river, so we ask him, counsellor — the question is very simple — when are you going to bid for the project of dredging and regeneration of Pontevedra's river? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u275	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u276	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Vilan, as you well know, the planning and processing of the dredging of the Lérez mouth and of the Pontevedra stream began to take place in 2011 on the basis of the great social demand — as you referred to — both of the confrereries and of the port authorities as well as of the Pontevedra Council itself. In particular, these requests were made to the Naval Club of Pontevedra by the confrereries of Pontevedra, Bueu, Campelo, Portonovo, Lourizán and Raxó, and since that moment the decision was made to make this dredge. Also, as you said, the Council of Pontevedra has called for this action on numerous occasions through plenary motions which have been adopted almost unanimously, with the only rejection of a single group. What I have to tell you is that this is a complicated act, which requires a complex administrative process, especially with regard to the environment. These are dredging acts from the most complex of the autonomic port system set, both technically and economically. The project foresees performances on an area of 141,000 square meters, in a space of almost four kilometers, which will be dredged up to -2, -4 and -7 meters, which will entail a withdrawal of approximately 221 cubic meters of material, and with an investment, as you asked, of 2.5 million euros. As you will also know, this process was redirected in April 2014 to accommodate, with the study of the first environmental impact, regulatory changes that occur as regards the treatment of sediments and also taking into account the demands of the sector itself. Both incidences involved profound developments in the processing, which made it considerably longer, and among other things, a new environmental impact study had to be contracted, which led us to expand the processing in more than two years. This great complexity is also enhanced by the existence of multiple issues to be saved, as it is priority to have a zero impact on the marine banks of the river. That is the question we are currently trying to ensure, seeking the industry's consensus on dredging and depositing of materials. Therefore, the Council's disposition is to have the project ready as soon as possible and to be able to bid it out immediately. In other words: we want to go ahead with this project, but this is always subject, as it could not be otherwise, to strict compliance with environmental legislation and also to reach consensus with all the sectors involved in the Pontevedra River. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u277	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u278	Thank you, President. Counsellor, you just said that you started in 2011, then, Mr. Álvarez-Campana, who was the president of Galician ports, why did you announce that the dredging and sea station would be made leaving the port of the Corbaceras? Two years earlier I was saying that something was going to be done that, in your opinion, started in 2011. No, it started a long time earlier, Counselor. As early as 2007, there was this claim to the Government of Galicia, and in 2009 there was an election promise by this gentleman saying that a maritime station would be set up in Pontevedra. That's the reality. You guys are now saying it was 2011. It's just that there's been a lot of complaints from the Town Hall. And if they started in 2011, and it's going to be done, and we're in 2018, it's incredible that in seven years they had to change you from environmental impact statement; once you don't know very well why, you'd have to be here environmental advisor and tell us what happened to have to change that environmental impact statement. What happened, counselor, without having anyone officially said to us, was that you had a problem because you were going to put the sludge anywhere, in particular, after the island of Tambo. That's what happened, Counselor. And the maricadores and the confrries told them no, they didn't put them there. [[Applause]] You have places to place all the waste and all the sediments, for example, in the old space of the old Sogarisa, which is now called otherwise. There are many more places. Why don't you take those wastes to those places to treat them? Because economically you have to put more money on the table, and as Pontevedra is the last one, it's the great forgetfulness, you don't want to worry about his laugh, and that's what you had to say here. I had to be brave and say, we don't know what we're going to do with those muds. However, you did know what to do on your day to deposit the sediments that were drenched from the Campelo pier in Poio. Why don't they take these wastes to the same place where they took those from the dredging of the Campelo pier in Poio, Counsellor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u279	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u280	What we ask you to do from the Socialist Parliamentary Group is to get them to work seriously, to stop making promises and to do something that's blinding the laugh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u281	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. You have the Government's reply to the Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u282	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Vilan, look, there's something I don't understand. You tell me that in 2009 we made an election promise. Home!, I think I remember that we won the elections on March 1, 2009; therefore, little electoral promise could be made when we had been in government for a few months. You also talk about this being sued in the years 2006 and 2007. Maybe so, and in the years 2006 and 2007 you ruled. They said it was necessary to do it, but when we got to Junta there was no project, no promise, no study, nothing. [[Applause]] We can tell you that we take this seriously. If they let me talk, I'll explain. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I actually consider you capable enough to make decisions where you have to take the different sediments that will be obtained from a dredging. I don't have that knowledge. And we, in certain matters, let us work for technicians. We've done a task for a technical project. You will have the opportunity to see the whole project drafted because it was requested by article 9, and I think that next Tuesday you will have the opportunity to see the whole project, and you will see that there are technicians who suggest that material must be dredged, which are the characteristics of these dredged materials and what destination should take each of the sediments that are found, because not all sediments are equal. There are thinner ones, there are less thin ones, there are those who have no pollution, there are those who don't... It's the technicians themselves who tell us that the ideal green spot would be Tambo, and there we find ourselves the problem that those belonging to the Navalla Exploitation Plan say that they don't like that point. That assumes that if we had to change the green spot according to what the technicians' reports have done to us, we would have to look for another green point and start all the environmental procedures again, because the environmental impact statement would be different. You don't have to be here by the Environment Advisor to tell you what's changed in the regulations. It wasn't a regulation that changed the Environmental Council, it's international regulations that changed as to the classification of sediments, and its destinations, according to that classification. So that classification changed in 2014, when we had our first environmental impact study statement. This is all that has been delayed by the project, but I can assure you that the promise is made, that the assumption exists, that the project is drafted and that what we are trying to seek consensus with all those involved in the action of greenery that must be done, what it is necessary to do and what we want to do, to avoid the slightest environmental impact and the slightest impact, above all, on the exploitation of the resources being carried out. The fate of the different sediments is decided by the technicians, and that's not a political decision. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u283	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and two other members of the G.P. de In Marea, on the actions carried out by the Directorate-General for Energy and Mines, the Galician Waters and the Directorate-General for Environmental Quality in relation to the greens produced in one of the ferries of the mine existing in the Towns of Touro and Pino
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u284	To make the question you have the word Mr. Casal Vidal
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u285	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. The other day, speaking of the same subject, Mr. Tahoces said we were on Marmota Day, because, indeed, this subject comes and comes, but it comes and comes and comes because, of course, it rains. The reason for all this is because it rains a lot in Galicia. As you will know, and you have already read the question, the Bama miner ferry, in the Touro-O Pino mine, in mid-February, overflowed. Later, in the following seasons, in early March, he again overflowed, and now Mr. Tahoces the truth is that he couldn't say nothing happened, that the water was normal. The photos are eloquent enough of Brandelos' effluents; i.e. the colors — I don't know if they'll look good in the Chamber — are very eloquent. [[Mr. Casal Vidal shows some photographs.]] The normal situation of all these Brandelos effluents is very clear. Mr Tahoces said — and that is why we brought the question to the plenary, because his explanations seemed to us very insufficient — that even though the effluent of the ferry did not appreciate situations of acidity outside of normal, so, by analyzing the river Brandelos, if we saw that the pH was a little high and that there were suspended materials, in particular aluminium. He said we had to wait for the tests that were done two weeks ago, and we wouldn't talk without the tests. We had to keep quiet there, because we actually didn't have the tests, but now we already have them. And we have them from an independent entity, in particular, from the University of Coruña. These analyses that have just been made public say that there is not only matter in suspension, in particular aluminum, but rather that, first, pH is not a little out of normal, but it is hyperaced, often higher than the recommended minimum, with high levels of nickel, seven times above the average allowed, zinc, copper, aluminium, manganese and iron, surpluses in these last two cases in 20 and 1,000 times respectively to the recommendations of the World Health Organization. Mr. Tahoces also spoke of the causes of all this, and the cause, as I have already said, is that it rains, rains, and that this has nothing to do with mining. I mean, there's a mining raft there, well, that's what there is, like it's going to happen after many years, if we keep processing this new authorization. What did he do? Look, these are the performances, yes, very sustainable, because they're some recycled plastic sticks from the bags that collect the land from the surveys they're doing — even though Mr. Tahoces also said they have no permission to do so. [[Mr. Casal Vidal shows photographs again.]] But, of course, a few sticks with four plastics don't contain water, and this was the conclusion a few days later, or the same day...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u286	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u287	...the plastics went out with the current. That's why we ask him what actions he put into practice the Council of Galicia, and we don't get the explanation from Mr. Tahoces that they did analysis. The performances have to go much further. The performances cannot be: how it rains, the river is contaminated, we do analyses, and that's what there is. No, the performances must be to prevent, under any conditions, the rafts from spilling uncontrollably to the effluents of the Brandelos River, the Ulla and finally to the Arousa River. Do you plan to do something about it or are you just going to do some analysis?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, indeed, I agree with you that it seems that we are on Marmota Day, but not because it rains a lot in Galicia, no. We're probably on Marmota Day because you're still in a campaign against the mining project that was introduced in Touro, and they don't care about reality, they don't care about everything. And surely we're on Marmota Day because, as much as I tell you this government and give them all sorts of explanations about the administrative procedure, you don't listen. You're probably the only one who wants to look for minutes to continue with your report, but in no case to address this subject with the rigour that deserves an economic project, a mining project that is currently being processed by the Administration. Indeed, you know -- because so it was transferred by the Director General of Energy and Mines last Thursday -- not a month ago, no, last Thursday, Your Honor -- that it was the abundant rains of past weeks the reason of the overflow in the Court of Bama. And he also knows that the Galician Waters found that, in fact, after not appreciating slips, after the cessation of precipitation, this action was observed. And that's why Galician Waters made in situ determinations of all the waters contained in the raft and also its effluent, as well as the Brandelos River and the Ulla River. But, Mr. Casal, speaking with rigour, you know that in the results obtained you really appreciate affection in the river Brandelos, but in no case in the river Ulla. That's the reality. You shouldn't be missing the truth here. Therefore, Galician Waters has opened and has initiated the corresponding sanctioning file; a sanctioning file that is in processing and will therefore be subject to substance by Galician Waters. And also the Mine Service of the council itself carried out an inspection of the whole situation on February 23rd. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to wait for the results of the analyses and that the conclusions should be expected. But the most important thing — and I conclude, Your Honor — is that the Council of Galicia in no case looks elsewhere that it is not to be guarded by law enforcement and that it is not to be guarded by the guarantee of general interest. So we will continue with all the inspections and with the opening of any necessary records. But, Your Honor, even if you don't want to listen to it — because it seems you don't want to listen to it — it's also going to be the strict compliance of legality that will offer all the urban, environmental and technical guarantees to determine whether or not the project can be approved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u290	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the word, for the reply, Mr. Casal Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u291	Thank you very much. Indeed, we must respect legality and therefore be careful with all these companies, Counsellor, Mr Conde, because, for the moment, in the previous similar case, in Corcoesto, it has already cost us 600,000 euros to all the Greeks to respect legality. You don't seem to be so competent in your file processing either. It's already cost us 600,000 euros! And where did these 600,000 euros come from? They could probably go out, because, I don't know, of the money given to certain means to publish certain things, for example. But no, do you know where the 600,000 euros came from? From the aid to R+D+i; those are the priorities of the Greek Government, the 600,000 euros that they had to pay for not doing things, it seems, all right. [[Applause]] In the Corcoesto mine, two R & D+i funds came out. And, moreover, we have to be careful about these companies—we talked to Mr. Tahoces the other day—because then it can happen what is happening to them in Corcoesto too, which the same company that has already taken out 600,000 now says textually—a Canadian Infolibre headline—: "A Canadian company denounces that an intermediary asked for a 1.5 million bite for Feijóo and senior positions of the Board." I don't say it, it's signed by the company, specifically by Eder Water. Well, you have to be very careful with these companies, because Atalaya Mining has a very similar curriculum to that of Eder Water. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] With which, in addition — already on the subject of the question more concretely — analysis is not the solution; the solution is to demand these companies to put the means in the rafts which are of mining farms so that, when it rains — that in Galicia rains — there are no overflows. And they say that in the eye it didn't come, but just like the analysis of the waters of Galicia they said there was only aluminum, and now it turns out there's not only aluminum, but there's a lot more things and the levels of pH they didn't like either, but very much lower, more accesses...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u292	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u293	...then you'll also have to ask the independent bodies to analyze the waters of the Ulla and the waters of the Arousa River to see if these are the analyses as they are coming to us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u294	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u295	Please, Mr. Conde, do something more than do tests.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. Replica from the Government. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now you don't want to talk about Touro; that's good. You certainly don't want to talk about Touro because you actually see that you don't have any kind of argument to accept that, before presenting a project, that project has to be processed, you need to require reports from and from there logically identify whether that project meets all guarantees. I'd like to know if you and your group actually agree or not to process the Touro project, because one day they say something and in the afternoon they say the opposite. You tell me about Corcoesto. Look, the Galician Board's decision to resolve the expiry file and cancel the exploitation project was legally based not only on the Galician board but also on the Constitutional Court's assessment. I think you should talk about Corcoesto, at least with a little respect for this government, which at all times has complied with legality, and it was also a legality that is evaluated by the Constitutional Court itself. A large Corcoesto project needed maximum guarantees and the company did not offer those guarantees; therefore, the Government acted with all contemporaneousness and under all legality. It is true that there is a demand for international arbitration in the national juridical order, and the Galician Junta is clear that it is defending the interests of the Greeks and is acting in coordination with the State's Counsel to defend the general interest and the interests of the Greeks. And you, instead of coming here trying to launch any kind of comment to generate doubts about the process, you should come here to defend this government, which is defending the interests of all the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] But let's go back to Touro, Your Honor, because I think this was your question. In fact, in Touro we are acting with the current project, logically, monitoring any condition to the water masses, sanctioning those vegetables that can be produced and with complete transparency, Your Honor, to ensure the development of the activity. In addition, you know that this week CSIC and the company themselves have agreed that they will do a study to chemically characterize all the contents of metals, organic matter and nutrients and, therefore, to give you assurances from the point of view of the real influence that mining has on the quality of water. Your Honor, I believe that current technologies and standards in Galicia guarantee that mining projects are compatible with the environment and other activities, and I also demand the maximum guarantees. What I'd like to know is how far this statement goes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u298	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u299	...you and your group disagree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u300	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia regarding the conclusions and results of the meeting held in León, on January 18, 2018, by the Autonomous Communities of Galicia, Asturias and Castela-Leon in educational matters
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u301	To put the question, Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u302	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Dialogue, consensus and responsibility are three key words that I believe must be present — I believe we all agree that they should be present — in the political debate on education, for a fundamental reason: dialogue, because we are talking about the future, and when we speak about the future, there must be a sincere dialogue in the search for a common interest; but, in addition, consensus, because we are seeking or seeking a normative framework with a vocation of stability and sustainability to eliminate precisely the uncertainty of the education system — nothing is what was being worked on and what is continuing to work on in the national context to achieve a social and political pact for education — and also responsibility, because we are talking about the future of our children and, by extension, also about the future of our society. With all this in mind, I would first of all like to move the congratulations to the council—and, in this case, to you as advisor—but also to the Asturias and Castela-Leon governments for having taken into account in their reality, in their political education debate, which is necessary to have dialogue, consensus and responsibility. These are the pillars that led, for example, the meeting held last January 18th among these three communities: Galicia, Asturias and Castile-Leon. This meeting addressed the reality of the three educational systems. Besides, I think it's a meeting that came to be a good example, precisely, of the line that needs to be taken in the state context to achieve that social and political pact for education. And, bearing this in mind, unfortunately, we also have to bear in mind what the current reality is. The current reality is that, after March 6, a number of political forces, including the Socialist Party and the United Podemos, decided to withdraw from this line of dialogue, consensus and responsibility, abandoning negotiations on the subcommittee of the Congress of Deputies to achieve a social and political pact for education. Of course, I think it's at all light an attitude that is an error of historical dimensions, but obviously — as we all know — history is a judge; history and time know how to judge perfectly and put each one in place. With this in mind, I would like to ask you, on the basis of that meeting that took place last January 18 between the communities of Galicia, Asturias and Castela-León, what is the assessment that the Government of Greece makes of this meeting in which dialogue, consensus and responsibility have presided over what must be the political debate on education? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Gil. Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u304	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth, sir, is that this should not be news. It shouldn't be news that three autonomous communities in the wake of their responsibility if they feel like talking and working together; this should be absolutely normal. And the truth is, in current times, that precisely three autonomous communities of different political colors, with different systems of government, if they feel and try to talk, try to understand each other and try to learn from each other, because we think they have a great value; and we think, as you said, that it is a good practice. We think the sum of efforts is always a good formula. Under this premise, in the month of January — in mid-January — three autonomous communities — Galicia, Castile-Leon and Asturias — we started to work. We have had an initial meeting with political leaders, with technical teams, we want to share the respective educational policies — educational policies we all have to teach and learn — we exchange experiences and we also seek and explore, in some way, new ways of collaboration between the territories. Obviously, this does not come out of anything, there is behind a previous experience, the agreement of autonomous presidents at the first meeting of autonomic governments that took place in December, also in this frame of Castela-León, Asturias and Galicia. We are three autonomous communities that share important problems with a direct impact on education -- we think about aging, we think about dispersal -- but we also have good results at both quality and equity. And in that sense, I think the points we were dealing with were interesting; we dealt with different issues: rural schools, connected schools, quality, teaching staff, dual FP, university, etc. Obviously, we had a vision at that time — and some of us follow it with — that these types of meetings serve as small steps, small lines of action, oriented towards achieving something that we all want — I am sure — in the area of education, which is to achieve a social and political pact for education. Obviously, not all political formations want to do so, and it is clearly seen when there is an interest in working for education, in working for children, for children, for students, for students; that is, for the future of the country, which can even be political training at the autonomous level that is within the framework of the Socialist Party, or when purely partisan interests, which obviously generate a lot of concern, generate a lot of disappointment in the educational community and we really think it's a real mistake. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u305	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u306	Thank you, President. Well, Counsellor, in fact, spoke in my first intervention of dialogue, consensus and responsibility like the three guides that had to be present in the political debate around education, and in opposition are the concepts of political blockade, partyism and irresponsibility, which are precisely the three concepts that would have to be eliminated once and for all of the political debate on education; but unfortunately we are checking how today — as it was said — not all political forces think the same. I have said on several occasions, and I continue to defend it now, that in this group we fully agree that, by paraphrasing a formulation of the Kantian categorical imperative, education can never be a means to achieve an end, but it has to be an end in itself, and that is a key starting point for the progress of the education system and a key starting point for the educational community to have confidence in politics again as a capacity or tool to solve problems. The truth is, unfortunately, we are in a situation of political blockade that has already occurred for a year in the past failed legislation; but we are also in a situation characterized by partyism, because education is used solely for partisan purposes; and we are, in addition, in a situation where the irresponsibility of some political forces, which, by giving back to what society has demanded over many years, rise from this negotiation by the social and political pact for education. Obviously, we hope that this position will be reconsidered, and in that sense we invite them to the council and you to continue to seek ways of consensus with other autonomous communities, to which they do not desist in the effort to achieve a social and political pact for education, and to which they bring the model of these meetings to other autonomous communities to expand the spectrum and achieve what other political forces are committed to blocking, which is that social and political state pact for education. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Gil. You have the floor, for the Government's replication shift, Mr. Culture, Education and Universitary Ordination Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u308	Certainly, Mr President, 3 autonomous communities, 3 autonomous governments: Galicia, Asturias and Castile-Leon, we have had sufficient time to look together to work together to address educational systems to see where we can improve and to see that we can have in common, in which aspects we understand ourselves. The truth is we don't know if it will finally be possible to achieve this state pact. We're going to continue working, but there's someone who prefers to throw the work of many months of many institutions away; throw out the effort of many people, of many collectives, and despise a historic opportunity that we've all had. What we're talking about is a good example of trying to work together; an example that as good practice will also keep going. In fact, this initiative of three autonomous communities will follow. In the middle of next month, in this case in Zaragoza, and following a practically identical working methodology, very similar, we're going to expand the spectrum of autonomous communities. We will have six autonomous communities: the three already said but also Aragon, La Rioja and Castilla-La Mancha. We are going to meet with three autonomous communities of the People's Party and three autonomous communities governed by the Socialist Party, with different parliamentary majority, which means that in the autonomic field, to a certain extent, wisdom; it is wise that there are no other areas, in this case of the Socialist Party. Obviously, we think there are many more things that unite us than separate us. We think we have a great opportunity to move forward in the stability of the education system. Galicia and Spain have made a great deal of progress in the education system in recent years, in recent decades, and we have all done it together, but we still have a lot to do. That is why we regret very much that certain political forces, in this case the Socialist Party of Mr Sánchez, play short-pracism, play short-breed, see only political interests in this dynamization of what the educational pact was. A historic opportunity — it has not been achieved — of the democratic period is being pushed aside. Obviously, those who have a certain responsibility in this area — at least for our part, it will be — we will not fall into the melancholy thinking that it could be and has not been, we will continue to work so that together, the whole educational community, the political forces, the educational agents, we can have some stability, and that proves that in Zaragoza, in a short time, six autonomous communities with many very different parliamentarians will continue to work more in what unites us than in what separates us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u309	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the grounds of the recruitment, through a negotiated procedure without advertising, of an activity programme for the promotion of the event Xacobeo 2021 amounting to almost three million euros (EIV included)
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u310	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u311	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We asked you today about an issue that was welcomed by the previous plenary session and which is deeply concerned among the cultural sectors of our country; all the cultural sectors that suffer and have suffered the consequences of the continued cuts of the People's Party in the Galician Union since 2011. We refer to the sponsorship signed by the Galician Tourism Agency with a temporary union of companies, without public tender and without advertising, to fund with nothing more than 3 million euros a three-day macrofestival, and five more concerts in 2018, within the framework — as was said in the presentation of the question — of the pre-Xacobeo 2021 programming. Three million euros, counselor, to pay in one year, to spend in one year, while for all festivals to Agadic this year spends 280,000 euros on aid. Culturgal, which is the only and largest fair of cultural industries in our country, counted in 2017 with 57,000 Euros of the Galician Union. I mean, 52 times less funds to support the only cultural industry fair in our country than to spend in one year on the sponsorship of Xacobeo 2021. We could go on with each of the games, the calls, which is now active to Agadic to help many and different cultural sectors in our country, and which do not add up to all of them or even half of what you decided to allocate to a single macrofestival. Let us tell the Secretary General of Culture in commission and repeat to you now: for BNG it is obscene, it is irrational and it is also an insult to Greek culture and, above all, in Greek, that the Government of the United States invests 3 million public euros in sponsoring the Jacobean while they have neglected over so many years the responsibilities and obligations to maintain support, strengthening and impetus to the cultural creation of our country. In this sense, BNG is worried about us, and we also consider it reprehensible, two questions. The first is to invest these 3 million euros public, out of the pockets of the workers and the workers of this country, without competition or advertising; i.e., finger: 3 million euros public toe! A festival, by the way, that you announced -- a press release on January 12, 2018 -- that was going to be organized by Galician Union itself, is now a sponsor. And the second is they're returning us to past times that weren't always better, and at times when culture and spectacle are confused. That's why we asked you, why was a contract signed worth 3 million euros, without competition or publicity, to sponsor this set of activities around Xacobeo 2021?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u312	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u313	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rodil, the first thing to say is that the Galician Union is not the promoter of this festival, you know it perfectly well; neither the festival nor the concerts that will be in the major cities of the country. This is a private, private-initiative project, which has a patronage, which in this case is self-government. The promoters of this event are tremendously solventish companies in the field of organizing great musical events, and in general this UTE, its members, are examples of good practice: they create cultural employment, they generate business for professionals in the cultural field, and certainly also have an important economic and social impact in areas where they develop their activities. The Galician Union — as I have already told you — is the sponsor of this event, and the organization and production of concerts are this UTE of promoters, who will obviously make a tremendously higher investment than the content of this contract, a sponsorship contract. You say no contest or publicity, as if there were any legal spots. Too bad he didn't say it was illegal or that it had been done on the edge of legality, as if he had said in some statements by some of the members of these benches. Well, look, this is a sponsorship contract that made the Galician Agency for Tourism; a sponsorship contract that is a tremendously common formula in all public administrations to promote public, sports, cultural, musical events, etc. All administrations do, even some governed by the Galician Nationalist Block do sponsorship contests, without competition and without publicity, exactly like this one. They can change accounts, they can change orientation etc., but they do exactly their governments, they do exactly the same. There is a legal framework for 1988 and 2009, which clearly regulates these types of contracts. And, as I say, all political parties and all administrations do. The second question you raise here is, in your opinion, the supposed negative effects on cultural industries. We think it's the opposite, that it's even an opportunity. Why? Because this sponsorship contract could be dedicated to any other type of event, to a sports event, for example, or to label planes, for example. It could be done because it's a sponsorship contract to promote in this case a tourist brand, with which it is done in the cultural field, which will generate jobs in the cultural field, in production, in marketing etc., I think it's positive, and it's going to live perfectly with the very good network of music festivals that we already have in the country, it's going to live perfectly and are absolutely compatible. The truth is that they are different models that can live together: the networks of already existing festivals and a specific festival that has a sponsorship by the Autonomic Administration, in this case to promote a tourist event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u314	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u315	Thank you, President. We don't question the professionalism of companies. Nor have we doubted the success of the bands that make up the cartel, which we know of the cartel, because there's signed a sponsorship and we don't even know the set of bands for which these 3 million euros are going to be allocated. The question, Counsellor, where we want to take the debate, where we want to focus the debate, in addition to the lack of transparency, because there was no competition or publicity for this EUR 3 million sponsorship contract, is whether that is the role that the Public Service has to play. That's why I was focusing on him and that's why I put him on the table which is the reality that the cultural sectors of our country live, which is the reality that the different sectors of Greek culture live and, above all, the different sectors that make culture in our country, in our language, since 2011. Does it really seem logical and normal to you that the role you have to play, that the cultural policy that you have to develop a public administration, a government, is to allocate 3 million euros public, out of the pockets of the workers and the workers of this country, to fund a private event? It is true, you said — and I thank you and I am pleased that you signal it this way — that you act only as sponsors, 3 million euros public in a sponsorship!, so we would also like you to send us back, as we have requested since February 27, the terms of terms, to know where these money will actually be directed, to know that there are counterbalances on the part of those companies that are going to be financed by these three million euros. And if you think it makes sense and you think it's the role that the Administration should play, the cultural policy that must develop a Government, to allocate three million euros to a macrofestival and then 57,000 to support the only trade fair of the cultural industries in Galicia, or 178,000 euros for the edition of the book in English, 70,000 euros for the performing arts rooms, 43 times less than you're going to spend on a macrofestival in just one year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u316	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u317	It is true that these are two cultural models that are completely anti-thetical, but the cultural model and the cultural policy of the Galician Nationalist Block and the People's Party are in the background.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u318	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. You have a word for the Government's reply to the councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u319	Mrs. Rodil, you think you're here trying to mix one thing with another. We're telling you this is a promotion strategy with a sponsorship contract. An administration may elect an event promotion system such as Xacobeo, such as, for example, a county can roll planes or put advertising on a sports club t-shirt or pay for other issues. There are municipalities in this country that put on sports clothes their logo, it's the same, it's the same. Don't mix things up, don't try to generate a fairy of demagogy because there's really nothing left in the end. I think Mrs. Rodil is worried about one thing. You're worried because you think maybe -- I say it in a chascarrillo plan -- me or Mr. Feijóo or any member of the People's Party will present these groups with the microphone in their hands before they act. Maybe she's worried about it. No doubt about it, no doubt about it, that's not going to happen. [[Applause]] You won't see any members of the People's Party at these concerts with a microphone presenting these groups. There's no doubt in it that you won't see it. I think you know exactly where I'm telling you. And I think they're perfectly compatible with all the issues that you say we're supporting what you're saying, absolutely compatible! And I'm going to tell you, at the end of the day, the question is whether this strategy of tourism promotion is effective or not. I think there is data that clearly assesses the success of this initiative. In fact, they sold around 20,000 tickets in two hours. I think they're going to bring almost 10,000 people out of Galicia. It's a tourist strategy that has an impact. The return to the host sector, in the economic sector, will have an important impact. And I insist, it is clearly a political decision of strategy, promotion and tourism sponsorship that serves, based precisely on culture, the potential of culture, and the tradition that Galicia has of great festivals—there are many great festivals in Galicia—to boost this action. And I think the results are above the table, with which the truth is you try to generate by saying and repeating without advertising on several occasions, as if there were no contracts made by the BNG Administration following exactly the same system, following exactly the same system! With which you may disagree, you can do it, you may not like this festival, but I do tell you one thing, in the end, the data and results of this tourist strategy were very fast and I think all those bad wishes that were raised are out of place. With which, we are in a promotional activity of a tourist character, which fits and relies on culture to achieve a goal, which is to promote in this case a cultural event, which I do not see any evil, except, of course, what I told you, that you are afraid that the Jacobbeo will go well and that you, as you have always been on the back of the Jacobbeo, do not like it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u320	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the performances carried out or planned by the Government of Greece to improve the kitchen service of the University Hospital Complex of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u321	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u322	Counsellor, I honestly don't know what we've done to you in Ourense, so your advice seems to be worth it in that we haven't guaranteed a first-rate health and constantly set up a career of obstacles, both to health professionals and to users, who have to be constantly mobilizing us and pressing them to do your duties and carry out actions that should be done by themselves. Only in the last two months have both patients and professionals at the doors of the CHUO protesting for lack of personnel, lack of opening beds and emergency saturations. Less than a month ago, you had a strike on the cleaning service workers for something as elementary as they covered the casualties, because you must think that a new building will be cleaned alone. And right now the situation of the maintenance service's strike remains still unsettled, for the consent of its management and its counsellor in the face of the breach of the conditions of workers and workers of the siderometal. The concern we've brought today since BNG is one more in this crop broth — and it's not new — about the state of the CHUO kitchen. You will share with me that if industrial safety and hygiene are two basic pillars of any health infrastructure, specifically in the kitchen, they have a fundamental role. That is why we have to regret once again, at parliamentary headquarters, that during these years they have ignored the improvements that the current kitchen needed. More than any improvements, we're talking about a minimum maintenance that hasn't been carried out, and today we have a kitchen that, for example, has many problems on the ground that cause continuous falls, has obsolete appliances that have numerous gaps, and one long et cetera constantly denounced by workers and workers, In this context, the hospital enlargement works, that new building that is already starting to work, were for us, for the oransian society, a hope that a new kitchen would arrive and that with it would come a step forward in this direction. However, at the age of two and a peak of delay in that new building, we have to see that when they started moving sick people, it wasn't the kitchen yet. In fact, in September, the parliamentary groups representing this House went to visit the future facilities and told us there the already decapitated manager López Bellido who was immediately bidding the kitchen. This in September, and you just did it in the last week. Curious concept of immediateness! At least, we see that bringing questions to this parliament is good for them to speed up their pace. The point is, today we have no date for the execution of that kitchen. I hope that you will first confirm to us today what is the date of the horizon for that kitchen to be a reality, because at the moment we don't have those deadlines. And also tell us that improvements will be implemented...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u323	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u324	...as soon as that doesn't occur in the current kitchen, because you're having a lot of trouble, and you know perfectly well that the workers are making an average of twelve kilometers a day, twelve kilometers!, with obsolete cars, to take the food to the rooms of the new hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u325	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u326	So, those two questions, Mr. Counsellor, what date we're running for the new kitchen and what you're going to do to ensure security and optimal conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u327	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u328	...in the current kitchen as soon as that one is not built.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u329	Thank you very much. You have the Government's word for the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u330	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, I don't know if it coincides that the question was put and logically we work around for the improvement of the health situation. Always starting from the fact that we have a good health system in Galicia, the best in Spain and Europe, and of course in Ourense it could not be any other way, we are playing an important role in the Ourense Health Area. Investment of EUR 41 million, for example, to generate a new area of 52,000 square meters, of which more than 24,000 correspond to the hospitalization area, with 7 floors and 15 units, well-connected with the rest of the revenue areas, surgery, diagnostic tests, emergencies and criticism; a magnificent facade that the opposition takes to take photos. It's very common to take advantage of the facades of the new buildings that are done in health to say that they are concerned about the health of that area. Well, we're worried. The opening of the new hospital building last October allowed the spatial distribution of the various services of the University Hospital of Ourense, grouping and centralizing the hospitalization areas in a single core, formed by the expansion and the Crystal, Surgical and Infantry buildings, dedicating the building Santa María Nai exclusively to outpatient care without income, in addition to hosting different administrative and management units. Trying to reorganize an important reorganization is what we're doing there. And as far as the current kitchen is concerned, it's working normally through its staff, consisting of 83 people: 39 pinches and 6 cookers turn tomorrow morning; 33 pinches and 5 cooks in turn afternoon. The truth is that he has a great quality of food at Ourense hospital, so he's commented on by all the citizens who pass by. It elaborates between 24 and 30 dishes on each turn — distinct, of course — covering approximately 850 daily menus of composing the 42 basic and therapeutic diets of this hospital complex. It works with a hot chain system and is distributed to patients from different centers in isothermal tray. The current kitchen will no longer work as soon as the new kitchen is started, which will count on the same staff. Obviously, if we thought that this present kitchen was the ideal for space -- they have a very limited space -- there would be no variation, but if we want to vary, that's precisely why, because we understand that we can still improve the level of kitchen in the Ourense hospital. The kitchen staff are statuarial and will continue to be the same for new kitchen. We are aware, as I said, of the importance of offering our patients the best service, with menus adapted to their needs and on many custom occasions. We will, of course, continue to work, improving the quality of the health service in Ourense, which, as I said, is already a high level, but we will continue to add, even as a stimulus to the opposition for bringing questions to this parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u331	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u332	Look, Counselor, this country's opposition is seriously lacking in you. You know perfectly, just like Mr. Feijóo, like Mr. Baltar, like Mr. Jesus Vázquez, who here used that building over and over again, with months and months and months of delay, to take pictures, were you, because it must be the building of Galician history that most times was announced and reigned at the entrance door. [[Applause]] That's what you guys did, when in some case they didn't even urbanize access to that hospital, a new building that comes with more than two years' delay and incompleteness. In fact, that kitchen isn't yet a new reality, so we meet again with vagueness and vagueness. We have these years of delay here, and we still have, above all, that you are not able to give us a date when that kitchen will be a reality. So, do you want to, what do we do with a kitchen that in a longer period of three years, has a lot of problems? You will know, because you are likely to be referred to as well by the workers' organisations as well as by the commission of the centre itself, and — I hope — by the agency itself, by the problems in that kitchen. For example, in the last month, there has already been a problem with freezers, with the risk of healthy food thawing process, and that it cannot be fixed immediately, or that the washing train burned. Or do we dream of the opposition people as well? There's another question I don't want to let go of. I am alarmed that with the question of the CHUO kitchen staff, you have the same strategy as the cleaning workers. A new building, theoretically more hospital beds, and theoretically we are the people of the opposition that we reduce in our interventions the number of beds and even the staff. Are you telling me, then, that for the kitchen, with more capacity in the hospital, is the same personal enough? Well, of course, I'd ask them not to wait for a job break to ask for more staff.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u333	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u334	And also that they recapitulate about the current situation, because for these months that are left until that kitchen is a reality — and more considering the rhythms of the Galician Union to the hospital in Ourense --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u335	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u336	...will workers and workers continue to make these daily kilometres to bring a cold food to the patients in that new building?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u337	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u338	Of course, for BNG that isn't the kitchen horizon in optimal conditions that we demand from you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u339	Thank you for your question. For the Government's reply, Mr. Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u340	Look, Mrs. Presas, I remember a building, there was no building, it was a model, which was much more presented, many times, and it was Vigo's. The Vigo hospital introduced him to the two-party government of the Socialist Party and the BNG five times, five times! [[Applause]] And then I have pictures of the Cunqueiro Alvaro, already built by the People's Party Government, photos of all who were spokesmen presidents of the opposition parties, of all, and of every three or four because they were changing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We have pictures of all kinds. But look, we're aware that since the construction and the put into operation of the new hospital, distribution distances are larger, affecting times of service, but for that, there are also isotherm trays; isotherms: that keep the temperature. So that this would not happen, it was done to strengthen the distribution of meals with three new professionals for each shift, to provide time and form coverage for the distribution of cars and to be able to effectively serve the service of the units of the new building. Obviously, in the new kitchen, where we already have empty space, you'll be closer to the current hospitalization, to the new hospitalization, that new hospitalization that the Ourense neighbors deserved, with plants with lots of luminosity, with individual or double rooms. The truth is, this will end with this reorganization. Since the kitchen service, all prepared dishes comply with the current food legislation and the self-control system implemented. There are records of the different temperatures of food at the time of use, oscillation between 70 and 90 degrees centigrade by exiting our facilities. And they're going to be taken on a plant, randomly, swinging the ranges between 50 and 70 degrees; that is, it's studied, it's worked and it's not something random. Since last week it has been published in the DOG and on the Galician contract platform the bidding of the new kitchen, which has as object the supply of kitchen equipment with the adequacy of spaces to the new hospital building of the University Hospital Complex of Ourense. Also in the CEO of last Monday, March 19, 2018, it is published. The deadline for submission of tenders is 11 April 2018 and the amount is 3,750,000, amounting to VAT. After a technical valuation process, the decision made about the model is that the new kitchen line will be mixed, fundamentally hot, but also cold. As is natural, once the deadline for submitting tenders has been completed, it will be studied and evaluated by the recruitment bureau in order to be able to proceed with its adjudication. Of course, neither the advisor nor anyone in the board will need to know which day the recruitment board will have established which is the adjury company, but of course, we're talking about a short term. The deadline for submitting tenders is 11 April 2018. So we will soon have a magnificent kitchen, like the new hospital building, and, of course — as I say — continue to improve health services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u341	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández, G.P. de En Marea, on the deadline provided by the Galician Board for the provision of sufficient human and material resources to the Emergency Service of the University Hospital Complex of Santiago de Compostela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u342	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u343	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Good afternoon to the fellow clinician emergency women who are accompanying us today from the rostrum and who are waiting for an answer from the Health Counsellor. The emergency situation at the Santiago de Compostela University Hospital Complex is an urgent situation too, it's a limited situation. The workers and the workers can't anymore and have been protesting for weeks at their center. You can't work, Mr. Almuño, in these conditions: lack of chronic and structural staff in the service, lack of resources, worse and worse, and in a situation that is not punctual, which has been dragged for a decade. The problem is that the material, of course, with the passage of time is getting more and more worn out, there's more and less material, and the staff is getting more and more inadequate. Personal who has also reached his point of patience with the latest collapses of the Emergency Service experienced in these winter months. A situation of total saturation, in which people are not being cared for by the quality of care they deserve and professionals no longer give, drowned by the high workload. A very serious situation of a service that serves approximately 46 municipalities and around 400,000 people. Each half-stay, Mr. Almuña, in the Emergency Service is around 11 o'clock in the average, 11 o'clock in the average!, according to us the workers and the workers move. And, of course, maximum stays are no longer going to mention it because the situation is highly serious. Totally suffocated professionals, lack of structural staff, as I indicated; a structural failure that corresponds to the totality of the Galician Health Service. In all emergency services there are very serious problems of lack of personnel, but in the case of Compostela, in some cases, there is even a much higher deficiency significantly — as you know — than in the rest of the services. Workers and workers have delivered a comparative table, which has been analysed by the Management or the Director of Assistance Processes, which indicates that there are 10 nurses and nurses less in template than in Coruña and Vigo, 19 nursing assistants less, and in the case of captors and captors, the figures are much higher. This situation is unacceptable, and we are accumulating patients in the corridors. But we also suffer the obsolescence of materials. The youngest respirator is 18 years old, we're talking about 18-year-old radios, which would be continuously damaged, we're talking about the absence of pads, the absence of shirts, and situations where they have to be removing camels from medical ambulances in order to be able to care for the patients. The situation is totally urgent, Mr. Almuña, it does not allow any delay. We've been waiting for years, and we've been waiting for months for measures to increase professionals and material resources. Are you going to take some kind of measure?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u344	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. The Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuña, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u345	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the development of emergency services in recent decades is an indisputable issue: structural reforms, staffing, seasonal contingency plans, different processes, clinical pathways, alternative circuits. Thus, in structural reforms we have renewed and strengthened the infrastructures of emergency services, and we continue to improve. Patients are always treated, firstly, through the screening process, implanted in all Welsh hospitals in 2013, and, depending on this, with the established priority. Subsequently, depending on this selection, patients are distributed in the different areas of emergency services, being evaluated by the optional according to the levels of this classification and not according to the time of arrival at the emergency services. In this way, and with this international classification, it is ensured that critical and urgent patients are treated before those who are not. In the Emergency Service of the University Hospital Complex of Santiago we attended in 2017 154,763 patients, 80% adults and 20% paediatric patients. I use to greet the emergency personnel who are visiting today in the guest gallery, and the truth is that it is a pride for me to represent those 38,000 workers, professionals of a long experience and, of course, with a very important attitude of personal and professional treatment. Suppose in 2017 there was an increase of 3.119 more emergencies than in the previous year. An increase at the expense of adult emergencies essentially, more than pediatrics; in total, 2.8 % more. They entered 15% of the emergency care, the same percentage as in the previous year, which means more than 23,000 incoming patients, and an average of 63 daily incomes. This emergency volume is distributed in turn as follows. In the adult emergency room tomorrow, approximately 45% of urgent care demands are received; in the afternoon, 38.1% and in the evening, 16.8%, i.e., 83% of demands for care take place during the day. In pediatric emergencies, although the proportion remains similar to 80% during the day, compared to 20% during the night, it is during the afternoon shift when a higher demand is received, 50%, compared to 30% in the morning. The time of assistance, that is, the time between the emergency entry and the first contact, averaged in total, in 2017, was 47 minutes, compared to 51 in 2016, 4 minutes less, indicating — as I said — the efficiency of the professional team we have there. On the other hand, in the Galego Health Service we are aware of the importance of primary care, which was able to achieve an emergency resolution level at the continuing care points of 91.28 in 2017. Only 8 or 9 patients who went to the CAP had to be referred to hospital emergencies. In addition, we have other programs that allow patients not to have to approach hospitals to be cared for, including Telea program, home hospitalization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u346	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u347	...and I can't forget also how important support it makes for all emergencies and emergencies in Galicia on 061. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u348	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Solla Fernández has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u349	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I think the workers and the workers already have representatives, who are their union representatives, you now think you're here to manage and manage health resources. Maybe one day you're admitted to some union, I don't know. But at the moment I could take advantage, apart from giving me some very interesting data on assistance, I could take advantage of... If you want to intervene, surely in the next plenary session you'll be able to ask some questions. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u350	Quiet, Mr. Vega. Quiet, they're in the use of the word. Quiet. Silence is quiet, it's not yes and we keep talking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u351	Counsellor, the data is important, relevant and very well known, but I would like you to answer the question that I bring to you in this plenary, which is your obligation, on the other hand. I will transfer and transfer to him the deficiencies of structural staff who report both in the case of nursing assistants, in the case of nurses and nurses and in the case of captors and captors. In this case, the template of Compostela forms 24 professionals, the one of Coruña, 42, and the one of Vigo, who are hospitals with a large volume of attention, 89. The reality is that professionals can't anymore, and you here today should give an answer, not only greet them, which is also very good. In fact, at the end of the Plenary you can go talk to them and move them when they're going to take some kind of measure. Among other things, because they're tired of moving it, before you move to Power and put it back on Mrs. Eloine, who doesn't know where it's going to end, the truth. But in addition, Mr. Almuña, the director of assistance processes admitted and acknowledged precisely the staff deficiencies and committed himself to putting on the human and material table and a plan for reorganization. That was in November, months passed, and there's not a single measure. In January, the manager announced the same measure. But then, in the face of the protests, they came back to announce it. The staff can't, they've got them upstairs. There are people in the corridors continuously, because of structural staff deficiencies in the service, and, of course, what is not acceptable is obsolete material 18 years ago and that there are not even shirts to put older and sick people. Answer it and give it some solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u352	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. For the Government's replica shift, Mr. Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u353	I didn't appoint myself as the representative of any union, I am the councillor of the Health Council, and I think I represent the 38,000 workers. [[Applause]] And look, it's really sad that I'm also talking about Santiago's manager saying we're putting her back in Santiago. I don't understand. The other day, they were asking how many managers there are at the Health Council. There's 1 in Santiago, and it looks like he's attacking wherever he is. I mean, I think we have to act according to the personal value of people. And look, I'm going to describe it, because I think it's good to know what's going on, because with photos from the front you don't know what's going on. Look, in the adult area there are 2 triage consultations; 9 consultations: 6 polyvalents, 1 otorrin, 1 ophthalmology, 1 psychiatry; 4 resuscitation posts, 6 monitoring boxes, 20 conventional exploration boxes, 49 observation boxes with 4 isolation, 20 treatment armchairs, 1 bone room and cure room. The pediatric emergency has triage, 3 multiple queries, 1 resuscitation room, 7 exploration boxes, 1 plaster room. The xinecological obstetric emergency area has 1 query and 1 exploration box. As for the equipment, the service is currently equipped with 15 multiparametric monitors, 8 defibrillators, 6 respirators, 4 equipment for non-invasive ventilation, 9 electrocardiographs, 2 tensimeters, 7 pulses, 4 gasmeters, 1 ultrasound. These equipment has been increasing in the last 2 months with the acquisition of 20 wheelchairs, 10 camels, 3 tensimeters, 3 pulses and 2 electrocardiographs. This equipment responds continuously, always depending on the needs of care and its wear and deterioration by use. Of course, there will be some who have more years of age and others are more recent. Staffing. I think you forgot something about the staff. I'm talking about all the emergency personnel because they're all professionals serving the emergency. They're 187 professionals, 41 professionals, 70 nurses and nurses, 44 TCAE, 32 janitors; I think it's a painting that we can compare to any other non-Galicia from Spain. We have to see the number of emergencies, of course. This painting has been reinforced over the past few months by the presence of a doctor more in turn in the afternoon, 2 nurses/ nurses more in the day shift, 2 CTEE more in the day shift and one in the afternoon shift. And if the assistance demand requires it, it will be strengthened more personally as needed. We, of course, are always acting and reinforcing according to needs, and emergencies need it, it needs to be reinforced. But, look, I'll give you one more date. Scientific societies, both national and international, agree that an emergency physician can serve 4,445 emergencies/year. At this point we are exactly on a lower ratio, in 2,992 patients/year, divided between the 220 working days mean an average of 13.6 patients per optional and professional. The number of complaints...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u354	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u355	...that the Emergency Service is very small. Exactly, last year there were 175 complaints about the Emergency Service, which is 0.11% of the total activity. In spite of everything, we consider — as we said earlier in the case of Ourense — that we continue to study daily demands and needs and adapt to them. Whether to improve your installation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u356	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u357	...as in hiring staff. And we're going to follow that line, asking that our citizens need to provide our hospitals and our health centers with equipment and personnel. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u358	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Raquel Arias Rodríguez and eight other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia in relation to the implementation and operation of the child's houses as a means of reconciling the rural nuclei
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u359	To put the question, Mrs. Arias Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u360	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Since more than twenty-five years each year more people are dying in Galicia than are born. Furthermore, according to data from the National Institute of Statistics of 2016 — which are the last we know — of the 313 municipalities in Galicia, only 14 had a positive vegetative balance. And of these, most of the births, 4 out of every 5 were in the Atlantic provinces; in addition, 78.2% of mothers were over 30 years old. This data is not unique to Galicia, it is similar to that of many areas of Spain, almost all over the country, and also Europe. The demographic challenge, however, is a problem as common as it is, it is a problem for us. The demographic challenge is also to solve our future: the economic future and the social future, which has been perfectly understood by the Galician Union, which has marked demographic policies as priority in its political agenda. Demographic policies with transversal measures ranging from direct aid to services and conciliation measures. Only in children's schools has passed from 12,000 to 24,000 squares; also the Bono Concilia, the Bono Care, tax measures... finally, a series of measures that are specifically aimed at demography. Because, Counselor, no one can force a woman or a man to be a mother or father, but if we have the responsibility, both those we are in the Legislative and those who are in the Government, to create the favourable means for those who want to be the best conditions. And in this sense, within these measures, I believe that one of the most positive, valued everywhere outside of Galicia -- and tell me because I've been in forums where it was so manifest -- are the nested houses. A measure designed for rural areas of less than 5,000 inhabitants, so that rural families also have conciliation measures, so that rural men and women also have the same possibilities as those in the city; that they also create jobs and that they also settle the population in the rural area. Children's homes that have been invested in more than 5 million euros in the last two years, since they've been launched, and which also favour that people living in rural areas can have this service in an absolutely free way. That's why I wanted to ask you today what is the valuation of the government of nested houses as a means of reconciliation in rural nuclei?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u361	Thank you very much, Mrs Arias. The Social Policy Adviser has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u362	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, ladies, very early. We share the concern, for the data that has just become manifest, in what we think is one of the fundamental challenges to confront not only the present, but much more important, the future of our earth. Within this challenge, support for children, families and conciliation is one of the fundamental pillars that characterize the momentum this Government is giving to social policies. So the autonomous budget for this area, for the family and conciliation area, has increased by 54% since the Social Policy Council was created almost three years ago, reaching EUR 133 million in this budget of 2018. This budgetary reinforcement, of course, enables us to provide greater services in children's schools, which are an essential element of reconciliation. Let us also extend the Welcome Card to three years; and also extend it to those families that adopt a minor, during the first year, regardless of the age of the youngest at the time of adoption. The goal, therefore — as you might have in your question — is to generate the most suitable conditions for people to develop a family, because Galicia wouldn't understand it without our rural one. This commitment to the Welsh and Welsh people, especially in rural areas, responds to children's homes, which constitute a conciliation resource that we launched in a completely innovative way in Galicia in 2016, to provide precisely continuous and professional care resources for children, children up to 3 years of age. A service with free care — which is something very important and which differs from many other public services — in small groups, with flexible schedules. We currently have a total of 29 children's homes. These are adding up to another 17 children's homes from the 2017 call. And besides, ladies and gentlemen, we announce that in the first half of this year 2018 we are planning to publish a new call — the third one — which will allow 15 new children's homes to be launched. Finally, with this measure, and with only three calls for aid, we are making it possible to create a network of childcare in rural areas, in terms of conciliation, of 61 children's homes, with an expected budget of 6 million euros. All these measures make it possible for Galicia to have a coverage ratio of more than 40% of children between the ages of 0 and 3 today, exceeding the 7 points of the ratio recommended by the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u363	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the floor to reply to Mrs. Arias Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u364	Mr. Counsellor, listening to you, one realizes that it is true that I have listened to you many times, and to the president himself, to make Galicia the best place to be born and to live. But, in addition, listening to you, I'm convinced that all of us in this Chamber, regardless of our ideology, think that the children's houses are a good resource. That is a good resource for rural people because it is a resource that affects three elements of which all groups here often speak: it is a great resource for reconciliation, something that is always claimed; it sets population in rural areas, something that we also always have; and it generates employment, favouring territorial rebalancing. Rural measures to be added to others such as zero taxes, business creation facilities, or even nuclei restoration. A rural one we've all talked about here, but sometimes what I think might not be believed so much by some. Because, look, when we were here demanding the creation of more small houses, the opposition didn't pay any attention; or, well, it paid attention saying it didn't consider them necessary. I'm glad you didn't take that opinion into account, that you kept working, and that if the accounts didn't go wrong to me in a sum that I made now because of what you said to me, we can count on 60 children's homes in 2018 and 300 new rural squares. Something that up to now was almost unthinkable, that councils with 1 or 2 children could have had that appeal for conciliation. I know that this is a question, but I would make an incisive request here for the unanimity of the whole opposition when we talk about demography; that we leave ourselves so much of not for the sake of it and that, if a measure is good, we support it, as is that of the nesting houses. Excuse me, Counselor, for this incision. Now to finish, just ask you in this replica shift if you can explain to us a little bit more the details of the operation of these houses and you will be affected by the conciliation measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u365	Thank you very much, Mrs Arias. For the Government's reply, Mr. Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u366	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The children's house programme is, as it said, a clear bet of this Government that parents and mothers in rural areas are not different from parents and mothers in urban areas. It is much easier to have resources, in this case social resources for conciliation, in urban areas than in rural areas. It seemed virtually impossible in Galicia a few years ago to think that, indeed, 60 municipalities that did not have conciliation resources, three years later they could have them. Our ambition as a Government, in response to what we understand is a commitment to the Greeks and the Greeks, is precisely to continue extending that network. That's why I recently announced a new call for this year's 15 new children's homes, which will mean no more than 15 municipalities that have no public conciliation remedies, will have a conciliation remedy. At the same time, for us, in addition to the conciliation resources — which are essential and are one of the backbones of any social policy, because they promote equal opportunities and promote equal education from the moment of birth — it is also very important its location, because it contributes significantly to the dynamization of the rural environment through self-employment formulas and social economy formulas. It gets in many cases that people with important preparation, who had left the rural area, can return precisely to the rural area with the title needed precisely to develop their profession. Under the blindfold of a call for public aid, an investment aid of EUR 15,000 for the start-up of the social activity of children's homes, and then an annual blockage of something greater than EUR 19,000, which allows — I say — to develop this activity. So I'm not only a conciliation resource, I'm not only a social resource, I'm an important resource to retain and attract new population in rural Galicia and also to promote territorial rebalancing. Because an attractive, lively and dynamic rural environment also passes because the neighbours and neighbours of these municipalities have these new resources within their reach. As for the rest of legislation, Madam President, the Government will continue to work to promote birth, will continue to work to support the care of children, to improve family and work reconciliation and also to strengthen direct support to families, as a basis for Galicia to remain a community where more facilities have families to be parents and mothers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-21-DSPG065.u367	Thank you very much, Counselor. From the next question, you know that you have been asked for your approval. So, all the points are discussed, the session is over. Good afternoon.
