ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. Mr. Carlos López Crespo, Mr. Antón Sánchez García and Ms. Rosa Quintana Carballo, have been unjustified. And, no more, we're on the agenda. First point, appearances in plenary. The opinion of Mrs. Adviser on Environment and Territory Planning, on his own request, to take account of his policy on landscape and spatial planning
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u2	The Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser has the floor to formulate the appearance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u3	Good morning. Thank you, President. I compare myself to this House to explain the main strategic lines that this county council has in terms of landscape and land management. What I'm going to expose today is just a sample of what this Government, the Government of Galicia, is committed to, with the policies that enable our community to provide an orderly landscape and also with sustainable urbanism. The last almost nine years that we've been working all over to advance protection and landscape status have been a test of that, and so we're going to continue to do it. It is important to note that the quality of the landscape is a perfect indicator of the degree of development that has a society. Their good management and management are factors to be taken into account for the competitiveness of a territory and also for the future of that territory. That is, an orderly and quality landscape directly affects the community from an economic point of view, from a tourist, environmental, cultural and social point of view, because in the end it is something that defines our territory. For the Greek Government, landscape is an essential issue in the pursuit of social cohesion, and that's why we are committed to defining an efficient landscape policy, establishing our own tools. But this whole bet on the landscape must certainly be linked to responsible urbanism. In fact, one of the most important efforts that this council has developed since 2009 is precisely focused on a new model and a new policy framework for urbanism, and that responsibility for urbanism and landscape are values that we understand are on the rise. In recent decades, and especially in recent years, there has been tremendous progress in the awareness that urban development must be orderly, respectful and sustainable. We all agree that our cities and our villages, whenever they need them, must have the opportunity to grow and develop themselves, but they must do so in every case from the point of view of the landscape, needs and characteristics of each region. It is thus necessary to continue progressing along that path, both through modern, effective and efficient regulations, and to deepen the awareness of all members of our society. It is in our hands to decide which cities and villages we want for the future. If we want them to be faithful to that identity, to be harmonic with the landscape and to be committed to sustainability. Then I'll detail the main lines that we've developed in recent years in the area of landscape and land management, as well as the new steps we're taking. I compare now in this Parliament when they are about to meet two years of a moment that we catalogue as a history for Galician urbanism, which is the launch in February 2016 of a new regulatory framework on this issue; a complete regulation that has the main objective of promoting sustainable urbanism in the 313 municipalities of Galicia. That's why we have the first Land Law in history that already counts with one of our own regulations; a regulation that was approved only six months after the entry into force of the Land Law. We had a year to do it, but we did it in half the time. This new urban policy framework is something exceptional, not only in our community but also in Spain, because only Galicia, Asturias and Castile-Leon are the communities that today have a complete urban policy body. In addition, its elaboration was the result of a transparent and collaborative process, because, in the same way as the law happened, the regulation was also dealt with with with with the highest social consensus: it was held in public consultation; working meetings were held with the groups in this area; and seven out of every ten allegations made by the various agents, agencies and entities, including the observations made by the Advisory Council. It is an integral regulation that includes management, planning and discipline. This will make the work of implementation considerably easier for technicians, since it unifys and modifies the three existing regulations, two of a state character and one of an autonomous nature, such as the Urban Management Regulation, which dates back to 1978; the Urban Planning Regulation, which is also of the same year; and the Urban Discipline Regulation, which dates back to 1999. In other words, our community today has its own regulation that replaces two that have been in force for thirty-eight years and one that has been in force for seventeen years. We then have two more tools to help the municipalities with their planning, especially those municipalities that had the planning cancelled. This is the Law on measures in the field of public emergency or exceptional projects of interest, which has allowed the development of important projects which, because of their economic and social importance, could not wait for the processing of the new urban planning of the municipality, as well as the instrument for temporary urban management. If any council has benefited in particular from these tools it is precisely the Vigo Town Hall. We don't comply with the work done so far, so we will continue this work in urban development by developing new instruments such as the new Land Management Act. Once this new comprehensive urban regulation of which I spoke — as is the Law of the Land and its Rules — is carried out, it is now necessary to renew also a legislation, that of land management, which has already been in force for 20 years. The drafting of this new Land Management Act will assume the update of another one based on what establishes the territorial planning of our country, as far as it will refuse approval of the plans of sectoral projects of supramunicipal impact, integrated territorial plans and physical environment management plans. The processing of this new law will begin this year 2018, and we will, in fact, have the draft text within one month of now. In addition to this law, we will develop two other new instruments — in which we are already working — of vital importance too, which is the Autonomic Basic Plan and the municipal basic plans. The Autonomic Basic Plan will be adopted definitively in the middle of the same year. It was initially adopted by the Council of Unity last December, and is currently in the public information period, in particular until 5 March. Our goal is to ensure the actual and effective participation of all citizenship in its elaboration. In fact, this same Friday, January 26, we're going to keep a working day—which all the municipalities are invited to attend—to share the issues relating to this urban tool. If the Land Law Regulation passed last year replaced three other old regulations — which were in force over thirty-eight and seventeen years ago — this autonomous basic plan is no less important, since it will do its own with what is known as provincial subsidiary rules, which date back to 1991; i.e., those that have been in force for twenty-six years. With the Autonomic Basic Plan we're going to identify in this way, and through this tool, which is important, which is the 38,700 nuclei that has our community, and even we're going to identify and work for the most part with their sectoral conditions. The identification of these nuclei will be the basis for the delimitation and categorization of the rural nuclei and the lands that are classified as urban soil that can be consolidated by the municipal basic plans, of which I shall speak. In addition, the Autonomic Basic Plan will collect — as well is important — all the conditions arising from the sectoral legislations of the different nuclei, for example, all those related to infrastructure. I'm talking about sectoral issues such as roads, ports, wind farms and water installations; ultimately, those you already know. In this way, this plan will benefit all Galician municipalities, who will have a global instrument that shows all the relevant territorial information of our autonomous community, but especially those 49 municipalities that are still governed by provincial regulations of 1991 and the 170 municipalities that do so by municipal subsidiary rules or by PXOM that are still not adapted to the Land Law. To figure out how much work this is supposed to be, I'll tell you that this plan is going to be plasma in 4,000 sheets of A3 size, on a scale of 1/10.000. When it's over, we'll have the most complete diagnosis ever made of Galicia's territorial situation, with a precise picture of the community's urbanism in 2018. It's made by layers, which will facilitate the specific query, and will be available in digital format, which will allow us to keep it up to date and be a living and dynamic element. All changes resulting from changes that may arise from sectoral conditions, and even from approvals of land management instruments, will be linked to this autonomous basic plan. The figure of the municipal basic plans, which is also covered by the Land Law, is specifically for the municipalities of less than 5,000 people who do not have today's general plan, which are currently 49 municipalities in our community. The Union wants to facilitate the urban planning of these municipalities, which have less economic and staff resources, and for them, and with their collaboration — and, of course, if they so decide — we will develop the basic municipal plans. These basic plans will go into detail, and so they will classify the ground — something that does not make the Autonomic Basic Plan — and will establish the areas where it can be built and where it can't be built; that is, the consolidated urban soil, the rural nuclei and the rustic soil. In this way, economic activity will be fostered in the small municipalities and made with maximum legal certainty. They're not a reality yet, but today in the Department of the General Directorate of Urbanism we are told six express requests from six municipalities to develop, as far as possible, these municipal basic plans. We therefore believe that at the end of 2019 we will have approved the first basic municipal plans, obviously continuing the express and voluntary request that the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants make to develop them at the Galician Union. I have advanced the content of the new tools aimed at ensuring that land is orderly and sustainable, parts that will be strengthening an urban policy framework whose big vault is the Law of the Land and its regulation. We are, therefore, on a path that we understand is without return, but on the right path. And this government assumes the commitment to move forward in order to secure an orderly territory, able to plot the future with criteria and also with guarantees. All this legal ordination responds to three major objectives: that no council in our community is without PXOM. So in the last almost nine years, it's been increased by 190% to municipalities with an up-to-date PXOM. In 2009, when we arrived at the government, there were 33 municipalities with updated PXOM, and today there are 98 municipalities in force. I mean, this government has approved 65 plans, 7 of them in this current legislation, that is, in just one year. Another objective of this regulation is the orderly and sustainable development of our rural environment. And the third objective is the protection of the landscape, which we understand deserves a separate chapter. For the protection of the landscape, we are also equipped with specific instruments. It was already in 2011 when this council put in place a strategy, which is the Strategy of the Greek Landscape, to put into value, protection and recovery of the landscape. But it was in 2014 when this Welsh strategy was the subject of a review, including the Galician Landscape Atlas, formed by the Landscape Catalogue, which was approved last year, and also the Landscape Guidelines. We continue to take steps and approve last November the re-editation of the Strategy of the Greek Landscape for the next three years. This year 2018 we will allocate a budget of more than EUR 673,000 precisely for the development of this strategy. Almost four are the fundamental objectives of strategy. The first of all the governance of the landscape, the development of tools specific to its management, the improvement and empowerment of the landscape values of our community and the awareness of our landscape. Among other actions, and in order to improve the governance of the Greek landscape, we will commit to the development of the landscape protection law, something we will do this year. We will also begin to apply the remaining landscape management tools, such as the landscape action plans. We will also carry out the promotion of the first pacts by the landscape and launch the Galician Landscape Advisory Council. In addition, every four years we will draw up the Plan to follow up the objectives of landscape quality. This report will include the landscape quality indicators already covered by the Landscape Guidelines and will obviously be able to incorporate others in order to integrate progress in knowledge and the emergence of new sources of information. On the other hand, within this plan there will be tables, which are the tables of the landscape, in order to create forums where all the agents linked to the landscape can be represented. This strategy that we've drawn up also collects different sector-wide performances from the entire government of the Galician Union, but which result in the improvement of the urban landscape. For example, Plan Urbe, the Urban Rehabilitation and Renewal Act or the rehabilitation aid and the Galician Roadmap, which are other advisors. Also, for example, the improvement of the natural landscape will include the reiteration plans for the use and management of natural parks and the national park, which today are being processed; and, for example, in relation to the cultural landscape, it will also include the declaration of cultural landscapes. All of this must also be added to you the empowerment of places of special landscape interest, through the embodying of sight-seekers of tourist interest, or even the creation of a network of itineraries of landscape interest, already established in the Land Management Guidelines. In the design of this network we've been working on the last year, and we'll present a draft of this network in the coming months. An important point in this new stage will be the recognition of the active role that, no doubt, should play citizenship in defining these policies, public policies on the landscape, and the need to adapt them to their dynamic character, so they will be subjected to participatory processes. Thus, one of the new initiatives in the field of training is precisely the application, and there will be in our community for the first time, in our universities, the Interuniversity Degree in Landscape. While in the field of disclosure, we will take new steps such as the organization of exhibitions, summoning contests on the landscape and even creating a web site or repository of the Greek landscape. Thanks to this new planning, we will continue all the work done in recent years, which has resulted in the approval of the Landscape Catalogue, the start of the processing of the Landscape Guidelines and the development of six guides, two of them recently published, and one that I want to highlight especially, the Color Guide and materials; the previous was the Valados Guide. As I said earlier, in 2018 we will be undertaking concrete measures on the landscape, beginning with the design of concrete plans and projects of improved landscape, and even now we are studying areas that are most suitable for these actions. I mean, we're worth carrying forward two pilot projects that we have on the table -- one belonging to a rural nucleus and one from an urban area. So we will also carry one of these projects so that they correspond to an area of great landscape value that we can improve and enhance, on the one hand, and also in a degraded landscape area; that is, today it is degraded landscapeically. In the first case, we are studying the scope of a rural nucleus in which great cultural and natural values compete. And in the second, we are analyzing several urban areas where landscape degradation is due to different causes. Last July we presented the Guide for the characterization and integration of landscaped fences. This publication is embedded in one of the operational lines that you have already described this strategy of what we are talking about: the Strategy of the Galician Landscape. In particular, the development of guides and manuals of good practice for the landscape integration of the different actions on the territory. The fundamental objective of this document is to provide, in addition to the criteria for landscape integration, the content and all the resources necessary for the construction of the new fences, and all possible improvement actions over the existing ones, it is carried out in a manner consistent with the landscape in which they are inserted. The Council, through the Institute of Territory Studies, will follow the criteria of this guide in particular when it issues sectoral landscape reports; also when it has to report on the PXOM, when the municipalities will be reminded of the existence of these criteria for the fences. The last reference publication in the landscape is the Color Guide and materials of our community, which was presented in October. The Galician landscape catalogue divided our territory into twelve large landscaped areas. These twelve large landscaped areas were the ones that served as the basis for the organization of the work of the Galician Guide of Color and Materials; a work done through two conventions in collaboration with the Official College of Architects of Galicia. In this work we analyzed nearly 3,800 buildings in urban centers, periurbans and rural nuclei, only rustic and industrial polygons. The purpose of this work, this Color and Material Guide, is nothing other than to provide a series of technical, scientific and objective criteria and guidelines that regulate the use of color and architectural coating materials in urban, rural and rural landscapes of the twelve large landscaped areas of Galicia. We therefore want to offer criteria to ensure good conditions for landscape integration, both in the rehabilitation or reform of existing buildings as well as in new works. The recipients of this guide are, first of all, citizens, those who want to act on their buildings, and will also serve as a help to project editors and will be a work tool for administration technicians, and, in turn, a foundation for urban planning, land management tools and specific color plans to develop better. Digital editing of this guide is at hand for all Greeks. Copies of this guide have subsequently been published, which is physically composed of fourteen volumes. After the public presentation of the guide in October, in November, we held meetings with the most related professional groups, with Fegamp and with the official schools of architects and technical engineers, to explain the guide to them and to receive their arrivals as well. In December, a day was held for local administration technicians, in order to explain the guide from a technical perspective and also in order to collect their opinion through an inquiry and debate. With colors and materials, we've already had six guides. There'll be more, they're already hired to develop a landscape study guide, in this case of the urban landscape, which will serve to know the content that must have all the studies that assess the urban landscape. In November 2017 we completed the first draft of this guide, which included the introduction of the scheme of what the future guide will be. We are also working on two new guides, which is the Guide to Good Landscape Practices in the Forest Sector and the Guide to Good Landscape Practices for Mining and Extractive Activities. We'll start working on these two guides this year. It's not a project, but it's under development, another fundamental tool for the protection of the landscape, which is the guidelines of the landscape. It is a tool, as I have said before, along with the Landscape Catalogue and the Color Guide, which will complete the landscape management tools for the whole of the Greek territory. After the consultation phases and the corresponding environmental and strategic report have been issued, we will shortly proceed to the public presentation of these guidelines so that they can be approved in the same year 2018. Without any doubt, the adoption of the Galician Landscape Guidelines will be a milestone within the Galician Landscape Strategy we're talking about. Another milestone is, within this strategy, the development of the green infrastructure. As you know, the European Commission is developing the Strategy for a European Green Infrastructure, defined as a concept that integrates the connectivity of ecosystems, the protection and provision of ecosystem services and mitigation and adaptation to climate change. The aim of the European Green Infrastructure Strategy is to create this robust and favourable framework for promoting and facilitating green infrastructure projects through existing financing instruments, political and legal instruments. To this end, the European Union is strengthening integration into aspects related to green infrastructure into a number of programmes already in operation for its financing. We, from the German Government, want to be at the vanguard, so we already have a project, which is the design of Galicia's Green Infrastructure Strategy. We are thus moving forward to a future requirement that will make us Europe, or even Spain. We are of the few autonomous communities that today have taken a step in this direction, and, in fact, we are the most advanced ones, along with the Basque Country and Catalonia and even the Valencian Community. The goal is to develop Galicia's Green Infrastructure Strategy, with which to create an interconnected network of green spaces and other environmental elements that retain the functions of natural ecosystems. That is to say, to create a proven effectiveness tool that brings benefits to all of us of three types: ecological benefits, such as biodiversity conservation, adaptation to climate change, reduction of the risks of natural disasters, water regulation or even food production and security; social benefits, such as the provision of attractive spaces for leisure and tourism; and economic benefits, such as employment generation, increased property prices and also reduced cost for damage. The design of this I Green Infrastructure Strategy in Galicia will end this year as well. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have been working hard since June to consolidate our community as a reference in the area of landscape and land management. That will continue to be one of our challenge principles throughout the current legislation. Landscapes are one of the most important things we have in our community, and probably the most distinguished. Landscapes are part of what we are, of our present, but it's also very important that they remain part of our future, and that's why it's essential to protect them, preserve them and give them the importance they deserve. This is a work of everyone, not just of the public administrations, but of course, from the Unity of Galicia we have a duty and a duty to set the right framework for this to be fulfilled. So we've been creating this new model of urbanism, land management and landscape protection for about nine years. Finally, we are implementing a new framework, a new paradigm, to place our community at the vanguard of the care and protection of our territory. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u4	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u5	Good morning, Counselor. I don't know if you know the poetic collective Ronseltz, who you are from the 65th, we're from the same farm. I don't know if he studied here or studied in Basque Country, because I saw him born in Baracaldo. In the Basque Country. [[Mrs. Mato Otero speaks words that are not perceived.]] Then he could not enjoy this wonderful teaching system in Galicia and the study of the Greek language and literature. But there was a poetic collective in the 1980s, in the Coruña besides, who was called Ronseltz and who was engaged in a kind of vangardist poetry, breaker, punk, and published a poem in which they said, "All in my land is less costumed landscape, page and garage." [[Laughter]] In fact, everything in our land is landscape, beyond the poetic game. The truth is that the landscape is a fundamental part of our identity and the lives of people in our country. Everything is landscape: the sea, the rivers, the land, the water, the air, the rain, the mountain, the city, the village. In addition, in Galicia, by that crowd, as you said, of nuclei of population, it is a deeply vivid, humanized, transformed landscape. And also the flora and fauna is landscape, and also the fox is landscape. That is why we want to denounce here today, in this debate about the landscape, the massacre of foxes that took place in the past few weeks — that is also landscape — and that occurs every year in Galicia for pure fun, because it is disguised as a sport competition a real massacre that consists of hunting as many foxes as possible as possible in the shortest possible time possible. And this, which is a barbarity, moreover consented, promoted and supported by the board of Galicia and its council, which has, among other things, an agreement with the Galician Hunting Federation. And we, of course, since the BNG, don't want -- and we had to say it here -- this landscape and the images we saw this weekend. We don't want these acts of barbarism and killings. It's fine with the Animal Welfare Act, but then reality is reality, and now we're also seeing how they're promoting Pombian shooting competitions, when you said in the law debate that no such evidence would be allowed. It's all right, but reality is reality. You talked to us here, basically, I believe that of everything they haven't done or stopped doing, what they've done wrong, what they've got to be patching up and fixing permanently. He told us about the Land Law, but the Land Law has already experienced in just over a year four changes in its text, some of them via Budget Accompanying Law, basically because we are installed in insecurity, provisionality and patches. And those legal changes, at the bottom, are to try to break the fulfilment of judicial judgments with regard to urban plans. They know perfectly well that following Ourense's judgments, and especially Vigo's, they had to improvise — because we are in improvisation — urban rules to try to find a way out of situations that were, of course, of utmost urgency. But that's not the way to order and plan the territory. So we're faced with building a failure, like everything you've said about the municipal urban plans and this regulation too, that you've had to improvise precisely to try to skip the drain that is planning and processing urban plans, that are endless and that they're a real marabunta of sectoral reports that no council, or very few councils, are able to take forward. And of course, it's very good the idealized landscape, the oral landscape, but then there's the real landscape, the landscape that you also talk about in your documents. After the ratification of the European Landscape Convention, the reality is that in the last decade, and then, above all, the adoption of Law 7/2008 on the protection of the landscape of Galicia — by the way, 2008, they do not forget the date — the fact is that steps have been taken: drawing up standards, catalogues, strategies on the landscape, slow and late, but taking some steps. What happens now, therefore, is to balance these years, a balance which we, of course, think has to be very critical, and also make proposals for the future. In this first intervention I will focus more on the balance sheet and in the second we will also try to bring here some proposals for the future. In these ten years, we have to tell you that there are many pending subjects, and you've confirmed it, in addition, you're here in your intervention. There are pending subjects like, for example, the Landscape Guidelines, which are still in process of processing after ten years. Something very important, Counsellor, the studies of impact and landscape integration that refer to areas of special landscape interest. You have presented us with two pilot experiences, but the reality is that there is much more work to be done, because the fields of special landscape care refer precisely to the main problem we have in the country, which are degraded areas, areas subject to very large impacts, such as, for example, degraded urban landscapes, those affected by high-voltage electric lines, by mining, quarrying or arid extractions, areas degraded by other impacts, poorly integrated industrial activities in the landscape, abandoned zoos and forest repopulations with alloctane species. That's in the landscape catalogue, that's what they had to be devoted to at this time, and not to allow all the damage that's happened in the country in all these areas. And now you want to solve it with two good practice guides. A guide to good practices on forest farms. Let them tell us now that they want to make a guide of good practice with all the defeat they've been allowing on our mountain. Or a good practice guide on mining, which they're also allowing with regard to megaminery, unless we stop it or stop it with citizenship with mobilizations or in the courts. So that's all pending, and it's not solved with those two good practice guides -- that we'll see what they are -- that they introduced us here. Landscape action plans are being made in protected areas; by the way, protected areas. The awareness-raising, training, education and consultation actions still have many pending subjects, including the implementation of a subject, precisely in all the educational cycles of the landscape, and you had a great opportunity because you have developed in this country and if you are developing a pioneering project such as the Earth project, which laid the foundations, precisely, of a serious, systematic, rigorous and modeled work in this field promoted by the College of Architects. They're making the landscape pacts. We've been passing the law for ten years, and there's not even the first pact around the landscape. They're making voluntary agreements in areas of special landscape interest, because they haven't been demarcated or attacked the resolution of this problem of special landscape interest, and they're the whole list of misfortunes I've read to them before. They're not even developing the regulations of the law. Ten years later, you're going to tell us what the regulation and the development of the law are going to do. But what is this? What have you been doing in all these nine years of ruling? I mean, you came here to note the failure and non-compliance of everything laid down in the Landscape Protection Act. [[Applause]] You're not creating the Galician Landscape Advisory Council at this point, when it was also provided for by law. What you basically did is... well, you made a catalogue. We don't deny them the ingenious work behind this catalogue and the work of the Institute of Studies in the Territory, but what they're doing is they're putting the landscape in windows in a museum, and of course what we want, what we need, is not putting the landscape into catalogues, windows and museums, but proactive measures, and what we've had was a lot of progressive measures. In recent decades there has been a gigantic process of destruction and deterioration of the landscape often allowed and encouraged by the Government. And we don't say it, you say it on Galicia's own tourism plan for the years 2015-2020. It clearly says there: the main threat we have is the deterioration of the landscape and the heritage. So don't come here to tell us that you want to be a global reference, which is a phrase, a topic, that repeats us here every time you come to talk about something, that you want to be a reference, the most advanced ones, the best in the world, of Europe, with the Animal Welfare Act, when the reality is that the landscape, the heritage, are deeply affected in Galicia and threatened, as your own Plan of Tourism says. Of course, you have the great virtue of turning that devastation into a tourist claim, and you have dared to promote toxic mud rafts of Neme mines as a tourist attraction in the country. [[Applause]] Of course, that's everybody! You do the need for virtue. They're really phenomena and phenomena. We can put here many more examples of aggression in the landscape. I have little time, but I'd like to talk about the main aggression we have in our landscape, which is all the forest policy they've done over these decades, and the data is there. And I'm not going to talk to you more than an example. Look, I don't know if you know this landscape, Counselor, it's the Pedregal of Irimia, a place that should be a sacred place of our landscape and is being subjected to these aggressions; to a plantation of eucalyptuses. He's been asking you here in the middle of our partner Mini Rivas about this subject more than a year ago. You've committed yourself to worrying about that matter, and nothing, this scrapper! They didn't even take the first step to protect this important symbolic space in our country. [[Applause]] I'm not going to talk to you about how the protected natural spaces are, about the pending subjects we have in this regard. You again announce the management and use guiding plans, but we've been with 25 years of protected natural spaces and practically nothing has been done. Megaminery wants to solve it now, with everything you're promoting with the Predation Law, with a guide to good practice. There is the impact of infrastructures, AVE and AP-9, in Chapela, for example, of commercial macrocentres...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u7	...of the situation of the sea, of the rivers, of the coast. I'm going to give you two examples about the coast. You've done everything possible and impossible to allow, against the one established in the POL... it's very good to do the Land Management Guidelines and the POL, but you've allowed and you're allowing the Ence-Elnosa to remain on public land, on land of public domain earned to the sea, where it's a great urban-environmental impact, and against that established in the POL prior to the recovery of those lands. Or that barbarity they intend to commit now, of building a golf course on Baredo lands, also in an area of landscape protection. And so on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u8	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u9	I am leaving for the second intervention some proposals for the future which I believe we can agree on. In any case, we ask him for a change of direction, there's nothing else left. There are great risks to life, for diversity, for health, for well-being, and we must act with respect for nature, for territory, for the environment, for rigour, for coherence and for building agreements. Change, therefore, the course, Counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u10	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u11	Good morning to all of you. Counsellor, thank you for your presence. The fact is that there has been a lack of time in this Parliament to expose the lines of work with regard to territorial planning and landscape, as it has also been with you, Mrs Mato, thanking you for taking a break in your corrugated agenda which seems to have been so busy lately. [[Applause]] We don't know if this delay has anything to do with that possible shift of priorities in their responsibilities. The truth is, we feel a certain abandonment. You understand that because of the skills of your advisor I see you as the great conductor of orchestra that should be within Galicia's political planning, and yet what we're witnessing is like every musician you're counting on, every instrument, going to a different compass. Some go at a faster pace, as recently demonstrated by AGI with its studies of delimitation of urban truces of the rural core soil in the autonomic road network, going ahead of its counseling and affecting even its competences. And others go back, like Xestur and the Welsh industrial policy, or the Infrastructure and Living Council, lacking ambition for one and coordination and priorities in planning for the other. And the result of so much decay, of so much arrhythmia, is that you don't even know what you're trying to interpret. If you -- understand me well -- don't sit down the bases and the game of territorial planning where the rest of the councils have to come up, what we're witnessing is condemnation and paralysis of Galicia's progress. As much as there is and if it's about to push, by setting an example, entrepreneurship, if these projects that go out ahead don't find industrial soil in which to unravel, enough equipment and services in rural, network of axile and viable road communications, if all these things don't favor themselves, what we're going to see is the march to other geographic areas that allow their development, and with them the hand of work, the talent, the population. I ask you, how are you working with all that rural territory that is year after year losing population, activity and services? According to data referring to 2016, the biggest fall of the rural population in Spain is happening in Galicia. Where is that implementation of the Land Management Guidelines? Approved in 2011, they are accompanied by a follow-up commission plan. What is the evaluation of your application? How do we explain that in seven years only three reports are issued, and that the third report, issued in December 2016, does not contain values in many of the indicators analyzed? How is it also explained that in many of the infrastructures that had to help vertebrate the territory, contribute to setting up the population and improving rural competitiveness, continue to be projects on paper? Where's the dry port of Monforte? Where's the bus from Santiago to Carballo? Where's the North Coast VAC? And where is the arrival of the long band to rural? According to the Ministry of Energy itself, the four provinces of Greece are in line with broadband coverage in connection with 10 megabits. The appreciation we have from the Socialist Party is that today in the planning of the Greek territory, we don't even see the baton that runs or knows the score that is intended to be interpreted. And while they try to see where to throw, the uninterested data doesn't count them, it's that simple. [[Applause]] That one year you see that the trend towards rising empty housing in Galicia is 70,000, because the next year they don't count it and they're ready. In 2015, 20 per cent of the cities of Galicia were empty, 20 per cent. And 3,562 nuclei are the abandoned ones in 2015. For you this data seems to be of no importance and deserves no follow-up, but for the socialists it is one of the clearest indicators that the decline in population and rural abandonment is increasingly one of the most important problems facing Galicia and for which you seem to have no clear answer. They have a lot of resources, that's right, that's not everything is dissonance. While they do not agree on what is important and what is the model of Galicia that they aspire to, they use time to do studies, to do guides, protocols, reports. Well, since the crisis began, they've had enough time for the launch of many of these initiatives, most of them recently launched, but it's also true that it's better late than ever. The Greek landscape collection, so you call it, allows me to the simile, but the fact is that the name resembles that of a collection of chromiums, or those wonderful encyclopedias of the 1980s that were sold on the street. With this I don't intend to depress it, nothing further!, what I'm pointing out is that, just like chromiums or encyclopedias are objects today practically contemplative and even decorative, these guides also have something similar. We don't think it's negative about your elaboration, we think it's an interesting, really necessary and useful work, what happens is that we believe that your elaboration should be directed to a clear and practical purpose, and you know that for now it's just that: guides to knowledge of good practice and voluntary employment. In his manifestation, he actually appreciated the possibility of turning these guides into compulsory, but nothing on this subject was known. We'd like to know if that's their intention, and that it can be clear to us today. Guides to shock, in addition, with municipal planning. Lexislar and recommend are verbs that are very far from each other. With a soil policy that has understood the ground for years as a speculative good, which today is intended to change the model from recommendation to recommendation, it is at least surprising. To convince the recommendation, we must first be exemplary, and the People's Party, exemplary, exemplary, is no longer in many things, but in much less urbanism! Excuse me, Counsellor, but you can't appeal to the citizenry with a policy of respect for the landscape when on the other hand you look fat to the destruction of it for years from this same councillorship, from this same ruling party. His credibility and that of this Government, in that sense, is seriously touched, not to say sunk. He spoke and spoke a lot about the fascism in Galicia, and curiously many of the arguments that explain it, as well as some campaign, put the focus on the Greeks and the Greeks as the last culprits. I make it clear, in a sports team where the use of equipment is intended, there will be no player or player who transgresses this decision if there is a firm and clear team direction, and if it is also understood that this equipment is part of the image that is projected of team pride. Fascism is, first of all, Counselor, a lack of harmony, you said it before. And harmony sets it up, as we said before, a good conductor of orchestra. Let's not see the problem in the anecdote, but in what favors the anecdote, because not everything that looks like feism attacks the landscape. There are many bold cases of reinterpretation of architecture and materials, and the fruit of the eaves of planning, of the normative traps. I won't be the one who's doing a dissertation today on this term, but I'm the one who puts the accent that the so-called feism doesn't fight with beautism. Let us be cautious, because beauty would take on the ground some of the best examples of contemporary architecture in the community, such as the House Domínguez, of Alejandro de la Sota, or the Refuge of Roiba, of Vázquez Molezún, in Bueu; architectures with sensitivity, sensible and, above all, functional. The recent catalogue of colors and materials would prevent the construction of these two great examples of contemporary architecture, so let's not fix one consequence with another, let's go to the causes. And just like I said cautiously, I say let's be balanced. Let's not preach a sensitive policy with the landscape when for years you yourself have promoted and wagered by the aggression of the coast in so paradigmatic municipalities as Sanxenxo's, to the command of Mr. Telmo Martín, or the event at Barreiros. Examples that remove the colors to all the Greeks and to all the Greeks and which also fueled the territorial imbalance, allowing them to be found in municipalities that were denied in others. And I'm going to make it look like it. Do you imagine a Norwegian who has to organize a tourism campaign in his country? You think you have a lot of trouble finding snapshots that represent your land? You think that's easy in Galicia? I can tell you that many of the Greeks and Greeks, when we sell — among other things — our land, we have a sense of shame established because we are aware of the outcome that has been made here. And that those images of Fitur's campaigns are nessies of what should be whole Galicia today: a land rich in natural, environmental and cultural resources, but unfortunately it's not, and you're fully aware. It was precisely that lack of planning and balance in how to cope with the management of the territory to which it led many Greeks and Greeks to cling to the idea that is so dangerous and that so much damage has done that: if you can do it there, we too here. And I'm sorry to insist, Counselor, but the germ of that thought was especially gestured with their governments and with many of the urban activities permitted by their mayors and mayors and sheltered by the Council of Galicia. That damage is already done, and it will take years, many more years, to regain people's involvement and trust. They also stop feeding the territorial tragedy, the one that in the face of the ineffectiveness of urban management instruments, for example, caused kindergartens, schools or health centres to appear — as they are today — at the top of the mountains, with the overcost of services. Put your efforts to stop her, stop blaming the citizens of that situation and go to the source of the problem. A Government that punishes the consequences and does not shorten the origin of the causes is a Government that lacks political direction, because measures such as the launch in 2011 of the Coastal Management Plan were undoubtedly a very necessary and demanded tool, but sadly it was late. He came to protect what was already highly damaged. In October last year, Mr Feijóo told us about the implementation of various actions in relation to the landscape that you also commented today: the Plan to follow up the objectives of landscape quality, the constitution of the landscape tables, the intention to approve the Landscape Guidelines, and the regulatory development of the Landscape Protection Act. It seems good to us, what makes us a little surprised is that they announce it nine years after the implementation of Law 7/2008, protecting the landscape of Galicia. I repeat, in a great deal of haste in commitment to the Greek landscape, I understand that you're not demonstrating. And, Counsellor, already to finish, we can understand this in space and with good letter, but in his case the time has come to bring something more to his role as Director of the Territory: to print the growing that Galicia needs, and to move from the very piano these years to the strong one that demands the future of Galicia. For the moment, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u13	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Hello, Counselor, thank you for coming here so we can talk about landscape and land management. From our point of view, it's not as transcendent as you can tell us in this intervention, we already know how little credibility your proposals have, and two extremely important issues right now, such as the Dry Plan or the Climate Change Strategy are good at that. You sold these two products over and over and over and we continued without any progress, at least no significant progress. If it were, I could say it in his replica, but it's not like that. You come here to place headlines, as you always do, and at this moment to prepare your municipal campaign, which, seeing the results of your advice, seems to be the only one that you give him some time. But thanks also, because you come here to serve us so that we can talk to you about landscape and land management, especially the predatory policies of the landscape and the disorder of the territory of the People's Party, of those you don't want to talk about, but of what to talk about. So we're going to do our job as opposition group, and the truth is, without any hope that you will do your job in the government. If we're talking about land management, we have to say that the People's Party, and therefore the Government, has given up setting a management criterion for Galicia. He has been oblivious to a far-reaching policy of an absolutely whimsical nature, a deregulation and control intention that leaves the private initiative a decision on management, urbanism and the environment in Galicia. An example of this chapuza is Galician Land Law of 2016 that you came here to glorify; a chapuza that in just one year suffered up to five different changes. You are unable to implement serious and stable measures over time, providing your own legal insecurity of cacic governments and a legitimate diarrhea in terms of management that causes legal insecurity. You have no country plan, your announcements, Counselor, you have no credibility. You change the rules of play every fifteen days depending on the interests you intend to protect at every moment, which sadly and rarely are the interests of citizenship. Counsellor, explain to us why they adopted the guidelines of the Galician Landscape Law, which has been in the last ten years, and today announces that they will deal with it. Maybe it's because you're in a policy of realized facts, for example in the wind sector, of projects that could collide with these guidelines. What will happen when, for example, Laxe's wind projects are already installed? It could be that these guidelines were contrary to their installation and that it was already done. You apply the policy approach of completed facts, the policies of territorial disorder, the policies of looting the territory. His Government has renounced and handed over to the private initiative, especially of large businesses and industries, the territorial management decisions, since the new Land Law, the Galician Predation Law, or the rehabilitation bill, put private interests before the country's public management, leaving it as a subsidiary of the private initiative. Galicia must exercise its powers more actively in terms of land management, and you cannot offer solutions because you are obviously the problem. The Government must take advantage of the advantages of inter-municipal cooperation and not torpedo, as it does, depending on the colour of the city governments of turn. The PP has turned Galicia into an enormous free zone, all at the service of large companies: the lives and rights of the included workers, precarious work and all-right custodial suspension, information capacity and defence of the common citizenship. I want to talk to you about some of the landscape problems, some of the issues that we've been discussing over the past year and the various debates that we have right now on the table, which are a terrible landscape aggression and what you didn't want to talk about. But we are going to talk and we are going to fulfill our obligation, to see if you have any kind of solution to these problems. I'm telling you that I understand not, because you are the one who causes these problems. We know your landscape policies in this Parliament. They've already taught him, it's been summed up very recently with a very eloquent picture, that of Mount Neme. This is Mount Neme; to talk about landscape images help a lot, don't you, Counselor? In this photo that the People's Party intended to use to attract tourism to Galicia, there appears a raft of toxic waste. The image is very striking, and it may not be the best picture to attract visitors to our land, but we have to recognize it as an act of brutal honesty on the part of the People's Party. For this is the present and future that you offer for the landscape of Galicia. [[Applause]] Mount Neme is a clear example of the predatory policies of the People's Party, of the neoliberalism of friends that has as its sole aim the enrichment of a few at the expense of all, destroying our economy, our environment and our landscape. Mount Neme is the environmental and landscaped ruin that leaves corruption. A canteen that a Cotino company has exploded without the Board's need for an avalanche, which accumulates five years of abandonment without the problem being solved. We have to ask ourselves why the People's Party has given this company so much ease; why it has not demanded guarantees before this concession; and why the People's Party is silent in the face of this injustice. And we have the answer. The site of Mount Neme was operated until 2012 by Leitosa S.A.U., an already extinct subsidiary of the Valencian group Seedesa, owned by the political family of the People's Party Juan Cotino, former vice president of the Valencian Generalitat and to whom the Prosecutor calls for eleven years of imprisonment for corruption in the organization of the Pope's visit in 2006. According to the Mercantil Registry, the firm was administered between 2006 and 2012, when it entered into a competition for creditors by Vicente Cotino Escribá, nephew of the Popular Director charged in the Gürtel case. Last February Cotino Escribá reached an agreement with the Prosecutor's Office, in which he confesses that he illegally financed the People's Party. Lettuce did business with quartz and arids on Mount Neme without the Junta demanding an avalanche to guarantee the restoration of the area at the end of production. What he did receive from the Galician board company was more than half a million euros in public aid without any guarantee. When it broke down, its managers disappeared and the Cotino firm left behind a lunar landscape: 6 disturbing rafts of turquoise mud and remnants of rusted infrastructure. The environmental regeneration of this stop requires an investment of 1.5 million euros, according to the calculations of the mining chamber. Well, that's the problem. The problem is that the landscape is destroyed in Galicia to fund the People's Party. Corruption also determines the landscape policies of the People's Party. And, of course, speaking of how they destroy the landscape with mining activity, we also have to talk about the Law of Predation. We regret having to speak again about this law, and we understand that the People's Party does not want to talk about this law. We can even understand that you have some shame. That's why he dealt with the emergency route, because you couldn't tell me what they were doing. The Galician Union further lowered the Law of Predation the Protection of Natural Spaces to favor them to be exploited by the great multinationals of mining and wind energy. It's not a hidden way of giving the resources of our land to private companies. It's a ruinous contract for Galicia that, among other things, compromises its landscape in exchange for a warm dish of lentils. So, Counsellor, if you want to have a minimum credibility with regard to the protection of landscape and land management, ask you to repeal the Galician Predation Act and you will have a minimum credibility. Look, I'm bringing another picture. I don't know if you recognize this area. Beautiful, isn't it? And of a very high landscape value. Well, here your party, the People's Party, aims to install a golf course. They want to destroy 700,000 square meters on this mountain, on the communal mountain of Baredo; a place of special landscape interest where your party — you are the one promoting this outcome — wants to install a golf course. And speaking of the golf course, we can go to the problems we have with water and with drought, and how this also influences the predation of the landscape. What about the dry plan, Counselor? What about the Strategy against Climate Change? Because, of course, it conditions our landscape. Or do you want a brown future for Galicia? Maybe those are your landscape policies for the future. We can keep talking. And speaking of drought, we can link to a very serious problem that we have in the landscape in Galicia as is eucalyptization. You see this landscape, it's one of the most recognized landscapes in Galicia, most of the territory is the main element of its landscape. Is this the landscape you want for Galicia? A great eucalyptus desert? Is this the landscape...? Do you have any solutions in this regard? I brought a koala, apart from why I thought it was very cool, because it tells us what the ecosystem is. The problem with the eucalyptus is that it's a great green desert. Where there are eucalyptuses, there is nothing else; they are not associated with their ecosystem. In Australia there are koalas and there is another kind of biodiversity where the eucalyptus is. In Galicia, where there's eucalyptus, there's absolutely nothing else. And, of course, if we talk about eucalyptization, we have to talk about the landscape of Pontevedra River. Is this the landscape you want for Pontevedra's laugh, Counselor? Are these your landscape policies of land management, giving public land to friendly companies? Isabel Tocino and Carlos del Alamo? Well, time's up. I'll continue in my replica by talking about some of the problems of the landscape. I hope you have some sort of solution to the various problems that we put right now on the table. For my own sake, for now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u14	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning and welcome, Counselor. I'd like to begin by thanking you for your participation on your own request to talk about a transcendent theme for Galicia as is the landscape and land management. This is a subject of special interest — as we have seen — not only for the Government, but also for this People's Group. It shows this, in the two sessions that we've finished with this legislation, we've started by proposing non-law proposals and landscape-related questions, which we don't see in other groups, Mr. Cal. If they're so worried, at least they could present something related to landscape or land management in Commission 2nd. At least one, to know that they're really interested in this subject. The following are presented by the People's Group. That's why we're also grateful that the advisor wants to start this new session period by bringing this topic to the House, at a meeting on his own request, in this second year of legislation. And do it -- as we've just seen -- with the duties done, and not only in the past -- we've just heard things that have continued to be approved in recent years -- but rather in the future, with new projects and new plans. The legislative framework, the theme of plans and actions presented in recent years, I think it's a good example of this government interest. And he does it from three approaches to the same territory, from the same topic: urbanism, land management and landscape, without neglecting any of them. But in the end, we're talking about approaches to the same subject. When we talk about urbanism, we're talking about land management, we're talking about landscape management, too. And it's funny for me to listen to opposition groups when they talk about other councils. But if we remember something about the 2008 Law processing in some of the Bipartite's periods, it's about the struggles — Mrs. Pierres — between the powers councils, not only of a different sign, but of the same sign. Now all this territorial policy is in a councillorship, and also coordinated by a counselor who also directs the policies that have to do with the territory of other councils. There's score, there's a project and there's a director who's clearly running these policies, not like in the times of the Bipartite, that we only heard about the internal struggles of his governments. That's why, Counselor, thank you again for this work, it's ambitious, and thanks for that effort towards the future. We will continue from the People's Group by supporting all the issues concerning these issues of improvement in the landscape and land management. The truth is, after listening to the opposition groups, I just didn't understand anything. When you ask the Greeks or ask our visitors what is best in Galicia, mostly, but mostly, they talk about the Greek landscape. So bad it won't be done if it's still the greatest value in this community. But besides, of course, what do you have to bring to counter this generalised opinion of all Galicia and all visitors? Some punctual photos of things where the board is working. Because, of course, to talk about not being met by the council, or not being on top, is to ignore the work of this council not only in the last ten years, but almost in the last twenty years that this council has been doing, where it is promptly informed, it is absolutely informed and clearly informed about all the environmental aspects of any project or plan that it is going through in our community. In particular, Mr Cal, I would like to remind you that as you have already discussed in this Parliament, but it seems unclear to you that the Industrial Development Act does not lower the environmental control of any facility. Not an apex! And there is no autonomous community that has greater environmental control than that which establishes that law, no!, because they are the same European and national guidelines throughout the territory. So you can talk about what you want, but reality is stubborn, and what is ultimately demonstrated is that control by the board exists on all territorial management issues. But if we talk about each of these issues, these three legs of the territory, what about the issues already made and the commitment to this better urbanism? But not only with these documents we've just heard. Mr. Bará, when we listen to the planning issues, they're municipal powers. And the Council's commitment is very clear not only with the financing of these plans beyond its competences, but also with the commitment to aid and commitment to the development of these policies. So everyone's skills. The Union has a very clear commitment to these municipalities, helping in what it can. Of course, it is contradictory: the opposition says that the problem is that there is a lot of demands in sectoral reports and others say that there is no demand for sectoral reports and that it is not controlled. Of course he's in control! And all of us who have been in urban work — like you, Mr Bará — know that there is control, and that's why it's hard to approve these documents, because the requirement is very high, and it must continue to be that way. And not only does it help with these grants, it also — as we have just heard — by funding works. And if any council doesn't have planning, it's not because this support is lacking, it's because of a lack of commitment on the part of some of these municipalities. And if we talk about land management, then the government started, in addition, with two key documents that are still being referenced, as much as they don't like. The Coastal Management Plan, awarded even by UNESCO and internationally recognized, and the Territory Management Guidelines. In both documents I had the opportunity and the luck of being able to work and collaborate, both done by an interdisciplinary group of professionals from the three Greek universities that took the whole spectrum of both thematic and ideological occupations. That is to say, in this document we are working many professionals, many university professors, and we have come to documents agree that today, Mrs Pierres, are developing in all sectoral policies, with subsequent documents and plans, marking the criteria of these sectoral policies in Galicia. But, of course, if something is still making a greater effort, it's in these landscape policies. As I said, I would highlight what moved us to the councillor of a true pact of society with this landscape. And if you've followed the work of the council in the last two or three years on these landscape issues, you can see how all the documents are contrasted, dialogued, shared, with all society, not only with the great, with the professionals, with the experts on the subject, or with specialized tables, but with working groups, with society. All these catalogues, all these things, take time because they're negotiating in every county, in every town, in every area of Galicia, and they're working from below and taking into account the suggestions not only of the experts, but also of the society in general. So with these participatory processes, what we're doing is we're making a document that is part of society. I think, if there's anything to thank the government of Feijóo in recent years, it's the paradigm shift to territory and urbanism. I mean, there's a very clear commitment -- as the counselor said -- to put on value, to put on a stand, the territory, and that's a day-to-day job, a constant work, from drop to drop, to fill the glass, and that people have that commitment today. I see boys upstairs, I have my kids in high school. The respect, knowledge and importance given to it today not only from the institutions, but also from society, to the territory, to the landscape, is a huge work and a success of the Government of Feijóo in recent years, they are placed as they are or talk to who they are talking to. I like them to take out the Earth Project, few people have collaborated more. The first agreement that was made in 2004 to support this was me as director, and the councillor who signed it was Mr. Feijóo. The Earth Project has been with constant support for Mr Feijóo and the advisers who have been, and we have a document that was the National Urbanism Prize, supported by this government of Feijóo and indeed made by the profession itself, by fellow teachers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u17	...and teachers not only from the university, but also from high school. An example to follow. It wouldn't come to us tomorrow to tell all the documents and supporting works in this paradigm shift; and I think the paradigm shift with the landscape and territory is one of the greatest successes of the Government of Feijóo. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. You have the reply of the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser, Mrs. Mato Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u19	Thank you very much, President. After listening to the speeches of the opposition groups' spokespersons, and even the People's Party Group spokespersons, he did not expect explicit support from the opposition groups' spokespersons. It is true that I believe this is an issue of vital importance to the future of our community. I did not expect it because in the development of the regulation and even the law, here in Parliament, there was not even the consensus that society has shown in the process of the law of the ground; a consensus that, as I say, is reflected in that 8 out of every 10 allegations submitted have been incorporated into this law, and unfortunately this Parliament has not set an example, as society has given it, and has not supported a law that should not be a tool of political debate, but should mark the future of our community as the Law of the soil. So I think, in the same line, the intervention of the three opposition spokesmen, perhaps, is a clear reflection. For Mr Bará, we are late for the regulations of the Landscape Protection Act. After taking into account what has happened over the last more than twenty years in our community with the development of the regulation of the Land Law, that we may be the one this government not only to pass a landscape law, but also to develop its regulation this same year, I think it's not something to disregard. Then he also made different allegations, beyond teaching me Mr. Bará photos... but I will focus on the Pedregal of Irimia, who indeed his companion Mr. Rivas has asked me about this protection figure necessary for that pedregal in Meira. I agreed on that question, and even with the spokesperson, with Mrs. Pontón, that we would deal as easily as possible with that ENIL; an ENIL that, as you know, directly deals with it, with the municipality of Meira. It was formally presented on 11 April, and like all the processing of these files, it takes about one year. On 11 April last year, the sector reports were submitted and requested. The missing sector report is that of the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation. If you have more direct connection to the confederation, I'd ask you to send it as soon as possible, to comply with the word they say to treat as quickly as possible that protective figure of the Irimia Pedregal. And then too, Mr Bará, besides you know him very well, I think it's a gesture of much manipulation to take a photograph of a mud raft here as if it were an official photograph of the Government of Galician Union, when you know well, like Mr. Cal, that this photograph was uploaded to the website of the council through a participatory process in which we invited individuals to take pictures of the landscape. Indeed, it was raised by a private individual and was immediately eliminated by the Government of the Union. I don't know in particular whether Mr. Cal knew this circumstance, I hope so, because I'd rather not think if that freedom that the individuals have to take pictures was even interested, in order to be able to use arguments like what you are arguing about today against the Government of Galicia. In addition to giving you peace of mind, I am convinced that I will not do so — as the spokesperson for the People's Party said — with all the qualifications that Mr. Cal has made in his intervention of chapuza, predatory, looting, the problem is the People's Party... all those qualities that have accustomed us to the formation of En Marea, I will once again ratify, so that it is not only the speech of the honourable Member, but also of this government, which, in fact, the law of business implementation will not restrict or a peak the degree of compliance with the environmental protection of all industries and of all the projects of our community. It will not restrict apex the established environmental standards of large industries and environmental protection criteria. You can say that a hundred times and a hundred times again, the Government of Galicia will say so once again, since we are involved in the development of that regulation. On the other hand, I am very much drawn to Mrs Pierres' intervention. And in particular, it calls my attention — I say it as a woman — to be precisely a woman and to be precisely the Socialist Party, which in some way makes sense — and I am also glad that it is — to fight for equality, to call it the attention that you are the one who questions me whether or not I am able to develop two responsibilities, in front of the government and in front of a political party. Because in this same government we have examples......clear personalities of this government, from the same president, who has these two responsibilities, and today I have not yet found anyone who has questioned their ability to develop their responsibilities in front of the board and their responsibility in front of the party they represent. [[Applause]] I especially regret it because it comes from the Socialist Party, but it's something of them. What is important to me is to have a conscience — and I think it's something we should share — of the responsibility that comes with protecting our environment and also protecting our territory and even the landscape. We know that this is an important challenge that requires all of our commitment. These are subjects that we don't take from this government to the light because they depend much on our present, and all these decisions that we now make will directly affect the future of our community. So, from the President of the Council of Galicia and all of his government, not only do we spare not only efforts, but we are directly involved in trying to do it not very piano, as Mrs. Pierres said, but very strong. We set up a new legislative framework in urban development that came into force two years ago. A law that takes into account the diversity and complexity of our territory, and has provided various instruments that are necessary for the 313 municipalities in Galicia to have the opportunity to develop their competences; that is, they have the opportunity to develop the General Plan of Management as agile as possible. We simplified and accelerated the process by putting in place, as I said, new tools such as the basic plan and also the municipal basic plan, in which we are currently working. Two years later, this new land law mainly affected administrative agility in the processing of plans and also in the facilities offered to the municipalities. The effects are particularly noted in two fundamental aspects, such as the effective integration of environmental and urban processes in the processing of PXOMs. The previous report before the initial approval is already issued in the consultation process, which means a rather important saving of time, about four months, and allows you to know from the first moment the proposed urban correction. Also the comfort for the municipalities in the processing of their plans. Now the municipalities are transferring the documents approved initially to the Union so that we can ask them from the Union, from this department, all the reports of autonomous competition, which also involves a saving of about 75% of the time of processing the PXOMs. This new law empowers rural development through the use of rustic soil without deprotection; that is, unique and exclusively in those uses for which this soil is suitable. And it is also responsible urbanism, reaffirming something we believe in, especially in the development of municipal competences, which is the co-responsibility in the management and protection of the landscape. This sets a necessary framework for construction to adapt to the environment and does not happen otherwise; that is, it promotes recovery of the already built against the execution of new structures, and even reinforces the obligation to finish externally the constructions. Bet on promoting rehabilitation, clarifying the definition of what a traditional building is and increasing the volume of work allowed in rehabilitation, from 10% to 50% in all cases, whenever the existing typology is respected. As I said in my first speech, one of the main objectives of this law is that no municipality is without PXOM; a goal where the current Government of the Union has been working since 2009, and that the Union wants to be with the municipalities all the time. So in the last almost nine years, it has increased by about 190% the number of municipalities that today have their law-adapted PXOM, from the 33 we had in 2009 to the 98 that are now. And since the law came into force, 14 plans have been approved, 7 in the current legislation, i.e. this last year. We're always on the side of the Town Councils, especially supporting those who have their plan cancelled. Those who interpret it as a trap, those who interpret it as a trap, those who interpret that the law has already been born wrong because it has been modified four times; those who interpret it as a trap, those who interpret it as a trap, those who interpret it as a trap, those who interpret it that the law has already been born wrong because it has been modified four times; those who interpret it that the adoption of the Urgent Measures Act and the Law of Measures in relation to public projects of special interest was a mistake; those who interpret it that the adoption of an interim urban planning instrument of urban planning has been born wrong because it has been able to keep the management of certain areas of those municipalities that have their urban planning, I believe they are in a huge error, because it was this government that did not only this government that made it possible to develop important industrial projects for Vigo, but that it did not only for Vigo Council, but also forGalicia , and even for Galician the only possible opportunity to continue progress with these provisional rules in urban planning inurbanism , which would obviously not bedeveloped ; because the only the only possible but also havedeveloped ; because the only the opportunity to make and yet yet yet yet yet yetyet , since the opportunity todevelop ; because the only possible opportunity to make and yet yet yet yetyet ,since ,since , since has has has has has has beendeveloped ; because the only the opportunity to implement the opportunity to implement the only has has has been made the onlypossible ,since ,since ,since , since the opportunity to implement of the opportunity to implement of the opportunity to implement of the opportunity to implement of thefuture , since the only has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has the only possible to make and yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yetyet ,since ,since ,since ,since ,since , since has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has beendeveloped ;since ,since ,since ,since ,since ,since ,since ,since ,since ,since , sincethe So we will continue to move forward to work on the design of tools that provide Galicia with responsible urbanism. We have also developed in recent years instruments that allow us to position ourselves at the European level of protection of the landscape and that are allowing us to increase something that is important, which is the awareness of Greek citizenship in relation to the value of the landscape, as well as the spokesperson for the People's Party on the teaching of adolescents and children in schools. This awareness and social sensitization are an essential part when we talk about caring for, protecting and valuing the landscape; that is, having a new territorial culture and a new landscape culture, because landscape is a reality that defines us at the cultural, ecological, environmental and social level. And it was already Otero Pedrayo — perhaps the Greek writer who most studied our geography — which identified the landscape as Galicia's soul. We could say, by extension, that the landscape is an important part of the soul of all the Greeks, and that's why knowing it, protecting it, preserving it and putting it in value is supposed to take care of ourselves. And not only for that, but for the triple value that the landscape has — heritage value, economic value and symbolic-emotional value — we want to keep moving forward, because we also know that it directly affects the creation of green jobs in our community; a modality that, according to the European Commission, already represents 5% in the labour market on our continent. So this is a value, the value of the landscape and the environment, which is also strictly linked to a job and a quality job. And undoubtedly a community with a landscape, with an orderly, sustainable and quality territory has to have more facilities to grow and develop. That's why we in recent years have been equipped with instruments that allow, precisely, to care for, preserve and enhance the landscape of Galicia, such as those described in my first intervention. I speak of this Landscape Catalogue, I speak of those Landscape Guidelines and I speak of those guides, which are guides for now, and in some ways we are debating now, even with the main actors of development, about those guides, how can Fegamp and even professional schools, to assess whether some of them, beyond a recommendation, can become an obligation. In fact, we will do so, if there is a consensus, and indeed so society and the leading agents and actors demand it. We approved the planning of the Strategy of the Galician Landscape, which will guide us over the next three years, talking about something that is important, that is landscape governance, talking about specific tools for its management and improving the empowerment of landscape values and of course continuing with consciousness. This year, in 2018, we want these plans and projects to improve the landscape, applied to specific areas, which, on the one hand, are areas of special interest to the landscape and, on the other, degraded areas. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, since June we have been creating a new model of urbanism for almost nine years, putting urbanism at the forefront of our policies and protecting and managing our territory and our landscape and, therefore, we believe Galicia is on its way. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u20	Thank you very much, Counselor. It opens a special round of clarifications, with the Government's duplicity. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u21	Counsellor, we have the feeling that we are in your discount time, that you are already in another career, in other goals, and that you are now trying, in all haste, in these past few months, to leave some matters closed that have been pending for years. And the truth is that these EUR 673,000 that you told us you had for the Strategy we didn't think they could give much of themselves to really push many of the measures that are envisaged in the documents — and then we'll refer to some of them. Look, with regard to the Pedregal of Irimia, tell us that we are being processed by an ENIL, that the weakest figure of protection we have, is no big deal. As they don't spread, instead of the Irimia Pedregal, we're going to have the Irimia eucalyptal, because I don't know if you see the photos or if you've gone there, but it's set of eucalyptus; the Irimia eucalyptal. And with regard to the famous photo of Mount Neme. Don't cheat on the lonely. This is an official announcement from the Galician Union, it's not that a photo of a person who was lost in opposition or a militant from some opposition party has been taken up. [[Mr. Bará Torres exposes a page of a newspaper.]] This came out... look, "Give me Galicia," "Galicia, the good way," with the Galician Union logo. Indeed, there was a participatory process, but they were cooced to the picture. And you guys, in addition, rectified, and you could say this here: We made a mistake, we corrected, it was an error. But don't tell us it was someone who took a picture on social media. It was an official announcement from the Galician Union. They kicked it, and corrected it later. Well, that's the way it is, but you've dared to put this as an official announcement from the Galician Union. I think there's a page in the Landscape Catalog — page 88 — that perfectly summarizes the state of the Greek landscape, and you say in the document that was the result of a participatory process. So they identify themselves, the truth, many of the serious problems that our landscape has in relation to aggressions of a different kind. Look, if they were able to address seriously, strictly, 10% of the issues identified here, we would have made a great deal of progress in the areas of special landscape care, which is precisely, as I told you, one of the outstanding issues of the law of 2008, and it's been ten years. So get to work, because here's a lot of work to do and it's not done. Look, degraded urban landscapes — there are numbers of examples—, high-voltage electric lines, wind farms — that say other infrastructures have no remedy—, mining, quarrying and arid or land extraction — identify 66 locations; among them, by the way, Mount Neme, which is pending to solve, and many others—, areas degraded by other environmental impacts: invasion of alloctane plant species — you haven't talked about this — the effects of forest fires, pollution of rivercourses, pollution and filling of rivers — of course, there is no mention here of Ence-Elnosa, in the contamination and filling of rivers —, deterioration of wetlands, industrial or business activities badly integrated in the landscape — there are also numerous examples — abandoned areas — all this is pending; there is a lot of work to be done here. I'd be glad that at least they approached him rigorously and seriously. We, in any case, bring concrete proposals here to address solutions that have to do with, for example, the urban landscape, with the need to implement, develop, another type of urban models, with compact cities, with cohesive cities, with integrated cities, with accessible, friendly cities, recovering historical centers, and above all by recovering the economic dynamism of cities, supporting small trade and not those large commercial macrocentres on the outskirts of cities, which we already know the consequences of impacts on the territory, on mobility, etc. Also, other mobility policies, which are not solved by this roadmap that brings us here and also includes Strategy as a great solution. It's a partial measure, it's a patch, it's not a real solution to the theme of mobility. Also, as far as normative development is concerned. You didn't talk to us here about the so many times announced—it was going to be in the first trimester of legislation—Natural Heritage Law; the only thing you're talking about is some pilot projects. The Land Management Guidelines are undeveloped, the integrated territorial plans are unimplemented, and you're just talking about a pilot project; again, a pilot project. We are really proposing a change of direction in politics with regard to the mountain and to make, precisely, an integrated territorial plan for the protection and defense of the mountains and the nuclei inhabited by fires; a measure that really allows you to put a stop to this great problem, which is no longer a problem only for the environment, which is not only an economic problem, but it is a problem for the goods and especially for the lives of people, who are threatened by the fires.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u23	We must resolve this issue, like the preservation of rivers, rivers, wetlands and turbulence, with the fulfilment of the POL and the European Water Directive, the expansion and improvement of the network of protected natural spaces, of the Natura Network, which we offer and we believe that we must go — this legislation — to 20% of the protected territory, and also of instruments for management and improvement of management and management; the elimination of invasive species, the fight against industrial pollution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u25	...the brake on megamining, an agreement on the territory, the landscape and rural development... Well, a lot of work to do and a lot of pending subjects, as you've shown in your intervention. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. I give the floor to Mrs Pierres López, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u27	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I said no longer that the Infrastructure Adviser was missed; in fact, he has come more often than you in this House to take account of the guidelines of his counsellor. Don't confuse things with criticism of their status as a woman. That does seem to me, personally, that it would be to shield itself from an interesting and frankly ugly use of a matter as serious as the conquest of equality. If I didn't consider her capable, it might be clear that I wouldn't miss her. In fact, this very honourable Member has stated here, in this gallery, that Mr Feijóo's absence is precisely when it comes to issues of equality and gender-based violence. On the other hand, Mr. Fernández, since you felt the subject, I'm forced to tell you: Do you know what that citizen participation of what you talked about in the landscape catalogues was? Of a 0.05%; 1.400-1.500 people participated. And if you think those documents are part of it, because we must clearly have a very different concept than the term participation. By continuing with the above, it is necessary for you — and you said it, Counsellor — to approve the Law on the Management of the Land Guidelines, already announced in March of last year by Mr Feijóo; a law that already has 22 years — not 20 years, as you said — behind you, and that you need to adapt to the Land Management Guidelines, already adopted in 2011, without the precise consensus, and having, in addition, vagueness and lack of application. I understand that your reluctance to put the law into effect may be linked to that subtle measurement that you do of the necessary against the profitable, in electoral terms. However, they lose fear, the moment of the unwinding brake goes for a long time; so it's the right time to try to retrain, rehabilitate and rebuild that landscape, especially urban, so seriously damaged. By the way, it's been ten years since the explosion of the real estate boom and you don't seem to have been able to make good use of it. One of the realities of Galicia is the fact that there is still a delay in the rest of the country. He sees himself unable to cut physical isolation and continues to fail, among other things, the arrival of the high-speed train. This forced them to focus on actions aimed at economic diversification, especially in rural areas, the mobilization of their endogenous capacities, the impulse of the strategic sectors, the heritage and landscape recovery and the correction of the most obvious demographic imbalances, such as acute aging, the consequences of mass migration in many places, and poor population dynamism. The fact is that we do not see any of these actions being tackled with determination, being the loss of population and the aging of it, especially in rural areas, one of the most severe problems we have at the moment, something which the very memory of the follow-up of the Land Management Guidelines finds in the three reports that have been made at the moment. Counsellor, put your attention to the processing of a new land management law that makes sense to the Land Management Guidelines and allows for planning on a supra-local scale. He takes it safely — and I mean it again — that baton that belongs to him and puts the implementation of this law so necessary for Galicia as a priority. You presented today also the Autonomic Basic Plan, and do so convinced — so you conveyed it with your defense — of its usefulness to the small municipalities of Galicia, for the protection of the landscape. The Socialist Group also sees with good eyes the start of a tool that will allow the orderly planning of all those municipalities in Galicia with less than 5,000 inhabitants. But it's true that from many municipalities and collectives we are getting warning signals for the incompleteness of the same, for the discord of the elements catalogued with the own of the city catalogues, for reducing archaeological deposits, for example, to simple geographic points, with radios of actions of a few meters, without taking into account the true morphology and geometry of the deposits; roads that do not contemplate the assignment of one administration to another, and so on an endless set of issues; errors and shortcomings that seem to derive from an approximate mix of data and coordinates that have little real down to the ground, which is frankly worrying. I repeat, we socialists don't see it as a bad initiative, but it seems that it will bring a lot of work and greater sensitivity to the evaluation and protection of natural and heritage values, as some ecological organizations and associations demonstrate, which gives ideas for the broad journey that is still ahead, and prior to their approval. On the other hand, let us talk about the importance of land management and its importance in forest policy, which, with the severe fires that devastated the entire Greek territory in October, seems of great importance because of the essential territorial management, precisely to avoid the serious consequences of the fires, not only for environmental damage, but also for the safety of people, especially in forest areas close to housing in towns and cities. The Greek Public Administration, and specifically the relevant departments in the field of mountains and the environment, must lead a specific process of study and transfer of results to all mountain-related actors, and especially mountain communities, as managers of more than 600,000 hectares, on the expected impacts of climate change on vegetation and forest fires, allowing informed decision-making. It is time to call for the effective enforcement of existing fire legislation and legislation, which includes preventive measures requiring public administrations, mountain communities and private forest owners. There are already protocols and tools, such as self-protection plans, that must be used — and by experience - to review their application in high-risk areas and where there is a likelihood of forest fires of urban-forest interface.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u29	...—Finished. To conclude, Mrs. Mato, to convince and awaken the pride of all and all of them in the Greek landscape, be the first to set an example and put in place all those laws that allow you to draw the future map of Galicia. Perhaps so, by conveying true intentions, they can recover something from the credibility they lost when for years they have allowed and promoted that of "You will do." The saying: for Galicia, strong, strong, highly counseling lady; strong, strong. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Cal Ogong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u31	Thank you, President. The truth is, it was a disappointment to your next intervention, Counselor. I was hoping that, as in the first intervention, you put the sentences and the headlines, which in the second, perhaps, we would talk about the real problems we have with the landscape in Galicia and with the management of the territory. But we weren't lucky. See if in the next intervention you can account for some of the issues and some of the problems we're talking to you about the problems in the landscape. Don't be sad about your lack of support, Counselor. We do our work as opposition groups; we've come here to talk about those issues that we understand are problematic about the management of the territory and landscape, and you come to appear on these issues, and there's a lot of things you haven't talked about that I'm a problem, and of what you don't talk about, and our job is to do it. Don't get mad at us, and try to do your job, which you're not doing your job. We're doing what we have to do. With the law of solo, Counsellor, historical moment, exceptional maximum consensus in Spain. And what's the exceptional in Spain, you change it five times in a year? Is that the exceptionalness of the Sun Law throughout the Spanish territory? No law to bring planning and discipline. If we change it five times in a year, it's not a law that brings planning and discipline. You're going to adapt to every need on time. So you should talk about the failure of those five changes that you had to make in this law. And as far as the land management law is concerned, I tell you that the land management law must govern the rest of the territorial rules. You seem to start home by the roof, but it's your usual policies of improvisation and occurrence, depending on every moment. And he says that the Land Law gives maximum legal security to the municipalities, but if we change it five times in a year, he has absolutely no legal security. So you talk about the reality and failure that you have in your territorial policies. The subject of the photo, Counselor, I'll try again. See this picture? [[Mr. Cal Ogand shows a photograph.]] See if in his replica he looks at the picture and doesn't look at his finger. That's the problem. Do you have any solution to this, Counselor? [[Applause]] Can you explain to us in your reply, Counselor, why haven't the landscape guidelines developed for nine years? Can you explain to us why the Land Management Act has not been developed for these nine years? These issues are what we want you to talk about. He didn't talk about the landscape problem of eucalyptization, he didn't talk about the problem of Mount Neme. They spoke of the "Depredation Law," of course, to defend it -- and in the Laxe project we're already seeing how it serves the Predation Law -- but it didn't mention anything about the golf project that you have for the communal mountain of Baredo. You have the Galician Waters report, which in the current drought context serves them perfectly to liquidate this madness once again. He hasn't talked about the Drought and Climate Change Plan, which is going to turn Galicia into brown territory. We will move from the great green desert of eucalyptus to brown territory. Well, I'm going to try and take this minute and a half that I'm left to talk about some of the issues I haven't had time to talk about in the first intervention about the problems we have with the landscape and the management of the territory. See if I'm luckier and the replica speaks of some of them. If we talk about eucalyptus, we also have to talk about fires. I suppose these pictures don't have to be taught. [[Mr. Cal Ogand shows some photographs.]] We've all seen the images. This is a common landscape in the Greek territory with your policies, Counselor. Do you have any solutions? Can you provide a solution to this problem? Because until now we have not listened to him as an Environmental and Territorial Planning Adviser, when his advice has much to say to ensure that these situations do not happen again. And from fires we can hook up in protected spaces, because they burn for a year yes and for a year too. Very well protected, Counselor, you don't have them. I suppose you'll share that protected spaces are also decisive when we talk about spatial planning and landscape. Well, the situation in Galicia is what it is: we are the territory of the entire state with less space with some form of protection, and the few that we have are increasingly abandoned, with redundancy of personnel, full of eucalyptus, with fires and so on. Do you have any solution to this? Will you improve this situation, Counselor? Since I'm running out of time, one last question. I jump The Cynic Islands — which I thought was interesting — and The Cathedrals. If you want, you can talk about it. And you can also talk about Laxe's wind farm. But I'm going to teach you this, which I think is very clear, to finish: the coast in Sanxenxo, Counsellor. Do you recognize this picture? It's the beach of Carabuxeiras, before and after. [[Mr. Cal Ogand shows a photograph.]] I used to have sand and now I don't have it. There is a commitment from this Parliament to re-ignite the coast, which has remained so — an image worth more than a thousand words — after the illegal construction of the sports port in Sanxenxo which have made different administrations governed by the People's Party. Do you have any solution at once for this, Counselor? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u32	Thank you, Mr. Cal. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u33	Thank you very much, President. Good day again. I was telling the Counsellor that she did not expect the support of the groups, and the truth is that I — I must be more naive — did expect them to join. At other times, I think dialogue has been bigger, but I see they care more about precipitate, because here they only bring out precipitate themes, not the territory. Others are more concerned... yes, it hurts, it hurts. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] Don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u34	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u35	Maybe they can be some inconsistencies they have, because here they come to talk and talk about very nice things, but then, when they rule, things are different. They criticize the Business Implementation Act and say it's predatory, but, look, two autonomous communities now governed by the Tides are processing a copy of our law—Oooh...!—, Valencian and Aragon Community—Oooh!—, copying that bad law, and on top of Aragon only for wind farms. [[Protests.]] Careful! These are the congruences of the tide. But we can still talk about En Marea, Mr. Cal. Don't worry that here, come say nice things, we say them to anyone, but then, when you rule, of course... we talk about carpets for changing the law. Look, we've changed the law to help people, and for the general interest. And Vigo's case is a clear case. We would also like him to have the best general plan in the world. Or at least one; one, one... Yes, wait, wait, for The Tide to go now, Mr. Cal; for The Tide to go now. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Another of the changes, another of the changes... Don't worry, with the help of Podemos. [[Murmurs.]] Don't worry, though I'm that mess. They're also in the Coruña and Santiago. Wait a minute. When they criticize the Law of urgent projects, what cities were they asking for? Santiago and A Coruña. Of course, this is the congruence!, criticize the changes of the law and then urgently ask it to do the intermodals, because they are unable to manage, and asking the Board to do the work that the municipalities had to do. Urban planning is from the Town Councils! That's the congruence! We can keep talking; now, what I don't admit... we can talk about inconsistencies all morning, eh!, all morning. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] We'll talk about intermodals, I think tomorrow. [[Murmurs.]] But it hurts a lot. I have been respectful, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u36	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u37	Mr President, I have been listening respectfully to these inconsistencies, and I hope that at least objective data is respected. In any case, of course, to talk about not developing the guidelines, Mr. Cal, is to ignore what is being done in Galicia. First inform yourself, because these guidelines are being developed, and they've given you a lot of cases. Look, Mr Bará — for giving up some time too, which, of course, could follow, Mr Cal, but we have days to talk about this, says that on page 88 of the Landscape Catalogues there are, indeed, elements of special environmental impact. It would only be lacking that in a well-made document, as the Council did, the Council itself in the document recognizes the things to be done specially. Of course, because, otherwise, it would be wrong. But I could read the hundreds of extra pages, which are also there, and not just page 88. So it's a document, as you're well saying, well done and where you also recognize the things that need to be paid special attention and work, and that's what the Council is doing, in particular, as you've already done, with the landscape action plans, which, among other things, will also be shortening those things that have been done inadequately in recent years, because, of course, we have to deal with them. And by the way, I sincerely believe that taking the entire catalogue and guidelines document or the Strategy itself by taking only the elements is like taking the degree by the sheets. Let's talk about the set rather than the degree, which has the individual; of the whole image. And, as I said in the first intervention, fortunately all the Greeks and all visitors recognize the Greek landscape as the greatest good and the greatest asset that Galicia has, and so we will work and we will continue to work to keep it that way. In any case, that they also talk to me about just one of the allegations, when they could talk about the thousands of entries and participations of people through the web... you could also talk about the dozens of tables that were made with the citizenry, you could talk about the dozens of tables with collectives and workers... If you want, we talk about participation and if you want to talk about participation and other things. This morning we rose up with some government the only project that does this year, not even comment on the neighbors. I believe that the work of the Council in this so complicated document is well done, it is participated, and I continue to encourage the advisor and the Government to continue to do this work of placing value on the territory with that commitment to citizenship, making citizenship corresponding, as it is doing. Because I insist on what I said in the first intervention: if something I think is truly commendable of this government it is the paradigm change that you have achieved in these years in the way of seeing for society the territory, the importance of the landscape, and that we have to do things not like the governments of the PSOE, Mrs. Pierres, of "you will do" — I can give you hundreds of examples, that I have worked in rural with PSOE mayors, of "going out". That policy is past, and now what we all ask for is responsible urbanism, and in that the Council will have the Popular Group supporting, whenever needed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u38	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Close this meeting, Madam Environment and Territorial Planning Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Cal, the truth is I'm not surprised at you. I hope is not to disappoint most of the Greeks, and for that is what we are working for. I think the spokesperson for the People's Party was well explained. Mr Bará specifically mentioned the identification of this page 88 on the degraded areas of Galicia. Indeed, that page exists, as there are many other areas of special landscape interest, but these degraded areas if today they are identified were unique and exclusively because this government wanted, because this government has undertaken to do so and because this Government has made that Landscape Catalogue, which actually identifies these degraded areas. Because the first thing is to be able to identify them so that they can act. So, I think what you consider a critique of identification, we consider it to be an essential step. And, Mr. Cal, you've had the fear, throughout your two speeches, that the PP wants to do a golf course. The PP is not leading any projects of any golf course in Baiona, as much as you say. It's not a public initiative, nor is it an initiative of the Council; therefore, you do not put responsibility for the political formation of something that for this political formation that today is before the government, as many more are done. And by the way, since you like to point out and that you invite me to don't do me on your finger but to do it in the photograph you teach me, I would tell you that with your finger you also change direction and that, when you talk about fires, you directly indicate with your finger who are responsible. The leaders of the fire situation in our community are the incendiaries, Mr Cal, the incendiaries alone and exclusively! That defendant's finger, if you want, has to drive it there; and if you don't want — because your finger is sometimes easier to hide — it has an important opportunity, and now that you're going to develop that new forest plan, it works. [[Applause]] Work and make your proposals so that we can actually move forward in something on the earth that we care about, which is, precisely, to fight the fires, and that the Government, of course, cares about. [[Mr. Cal Ogon pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But what we're talking about now is the orderly landscape and sustainable urbanism, which are for us the coordinates that mark the performance of our present and also of the future of our community. It's not a commitment right now, it's a commitment from this president for nine years, which is developing to value our own, to enhance the landscape and also to make that management responsible for our territory. Because we are aware that a modern society is no longer the one that works without control but that it is the one that designs its plans, that designs its instruments, which range from the general - and also from the general interest - to the particular one, with a global conception of the territory and of specific action of a sectoral nature. Dwelling urbanism and urbanism are an opportunity for all, an opportunity to correct territorial imbalances, to achieve a sustainable development and an increase in Galicia's quality of life, and also to watch over the landscape in every corner of Galicia, which, as the spokesperson for the People's Party, defines us for the world. So we're still working and we're going to give this year a boost to the protection of the landscape and the promotion of responsible urbanism. And we will take the following steps — as Mrs Pierres invited me — in fact, with determination, with certainty in the handling of this new law, which is the Land Management Act, in which we are already working and of which we will present the first draft in February. Our goal is to update a rule that has already been in force for more than 20 years and that is something important to our territory, which is sectoral plans, supra-municipal impact projects, integrated territorial plans and physical environment management plans. Also at the end of the public exhibition of the Autonomic Basic Plan and the analysis of the suggestions presented, so that this plan can also be adopted in the first half, which will replace the provincial subsidiary rules, which, as I said in my speech, already have more than twenty-six years of vigilance. Also the design of what the municipal basic plans will be, which we expect to have approved in 2019. He said this tool is still not an approved tool and we already have six requests from municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants who want us to develop their municipal basic plans. Also the development of the strategic planning of the landscape of Galicia, with that regulation, which will be a reality this year, which is the Landscape Protection Regulation. We will, of course, begin to apply the instruments of landscape management, as are the plans of action, and we will also push something that we consider essential — and we are already working with some municipality — which are the first pacts for landscape. We will also launch the Galician Landscape Advisory Council, develop the Plan to follow up on the objectives of landscape quality, set up landscape tables and move forward in the Guidelines, which will complete those management instruments. And also something that we think will put us in the vanguard as an autonomous community -- as it said, accompanied by Catalonia, by Valencia and even by the Basque Country -- which is the development of the Green Infrastructure Strategy. We're moving this project across Galicia, and we're also pushing it specifically into the Coruña area, where we've just recently held a meeting in which 30 municipalities, which are part of that territory, of that space where we want to develop the Green Infrastructure Strategy. There was a lot of collaboration and a lot of sensitivity to the suggestion put forward by this council so that, in fact, always by the hands of the municipalities, they could improve and ensure the sustainability of the territory. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are implementing that new framework, that new paradigm, which will place our community — and I say again — in the vanguard of the care and protection of our territory. We want Galicia to continue to grow, but it is important that it do so according to some foundations that are solid, sustainable and, most importantly, respectful of our essence. As I said at the beginning, the landscape of Galicia is part of all of us, and therefore also a responsibility of all. Our goal is that all these measures — which we have already taken and which we will take throughout this year — contribute to building awareness of co-responsibility and also awareness of the value of landscape and territory; a consciousness that will guarantee a beautiful and sustainable Galicia in the present and also in the future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u40	Thank you, Counselor. Comparability of Mr. Advocate of Fairy, on his own request, to report on the progress of the closing of the 2017 financial year, the fulfilment of the objective of budgetary stability and the main lines of action for this exercise
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u41	To formulate this appearance you have the word of the councillor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u42	Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I compare today before the House to talk about the progress of the 2017 closing result, the fulfilment of the budgetary stability objective and to advance the main lines for this 2018 exercise. This is therefore a step forward, because the exercise has just finished, and therefore it is provisional figures that will be confirmed in the coming weeks. The most remarkable thing is that we closed down a year in which Galicia consolidated economic recovery and strengthened its solvency. Galicia once again met the public deficit target, Galicia again met the public debt limit, Galicia controlled the spending rule, kept some better payment times each month than the Spanish average and Galicia continued to grow above 3% and created more than 21,000 jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, budgetary stability is essential to ensure the sustainability of the welfare state. Let's see this for the kid. First of all, we are speeding up fiscal consolidation. The first conclusion is that Galicia achieved a further year in 2017 the objectives set out in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. Fortunately, that Galicia fulfils these objectives is something normal and no longer being news, but it is of great importance. Since 2009, this government has set one of its objectives: to achieve a gradual and unabrupt reduction in the public deficit, fulfilling, as stated above, the objectives set out in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. The novelty of 2017 is that we accelerate fiscal consolidation, and we can already state that we are in a technical fiscal consolidation that will be reaffirmed this year 2018. We accelerated fiscal consolidation because, according to the provisional data available to us, Galicia registered in 2017 a public deficit of 0.21% of its GDP, well below the authorized limit and reaffirms Galicia as a community of reference in budgetary stability. At this point, the data show that Galicia practically completed the fiscal consolidation process that we started in 2009. This provisional data makes it possible to ensure that Galicia has therefore completed its efforts to reduce the public deficit and has been able to achieve it before that is anticipated. This circumstance is very relevant because budgetary stability drives the model of inclusive and stable growth, so this government is committed to, and favours economic growth in the environment of 3% over the past three years. Closing the 2017 exercise with a 0.21% deficit, of only about 129 million euros, means that we have met the objective of 0.6 set for all autonomous communities and that we have managed to reduce enough less than half the deficit over the previous year, since in 2016 we closed at 0.58%. So I reiterate that Galicia has now technically completed the process of fiscal consolidation, and we have done it constantly, year by year, in a planned manner and without abrupt decisions. I also want to remind you that Galicia is the second community that has most reduced its deficit since 2012 and that we have carried out this reduction while we are able to bring it back to the economic situation completely. We are beginning to reduce the deficit at a time of income reduction crisis, and now we are closing 2017 being the third consecutive year growing with GDP rates equal to or above real 3%. The main objective of the Government of Greece, which is job creation, continues to bear fruit. We closed 2017 with 21,713 new members of Social Security and we have accumulated more than 60,000 new members in the last three years. By 2018 I've already told you that Galicia is in a very good position to re-enact the objectives set by the Fiscal and Financial Policy Board, which for this exercise is 0.4%. But obviously, we don't think we're going to exhaust them because we've already included a maximum margin of 0.3% in the budgets. Secondly, we lower our debt ratio. Another of the Government's goals from the very first moment on was to keep control of debt by resorting to debt only strictly necessary in order to maintain our investments, and always meeting the targets we had set as well. Today we can say that we also meet these objectives. Galicia is consolidated among communities with less debt. I would like to recall that before the Galician crisis he was among the most indebted, and now he's among the least indebted. The latest official data from the Banco de España in the third quarter of 2017 pointed out that Galicia reduced its public debt to 226 million euros and that it closed that quarter as the fifth most indebted autonomy in Spain. In less than a decade Galicia has gone from being the fourth most indebted community to being the fifth with less. This government, therefore, gave him back to the situation. And all this despite the fact that part of Galicia's new debt corresponds to the EUR 2,200 million that had been over-ordained by the previous Government and that we have an obligation to return. Galicia now has a debt ratio of 18.6; that is, six points less than the average. Official data also ratify that Galician debt has been fully stabilized since the year 2014; that is, we have managed to maintain the public indebtedness of the Autonomous Community already in the years 2014, 2015 and 2016. Accelerating fiscal consolidation has also had positive effects on debt, because the novelty is that now I can move forward that in 2017 Galicia has managed to reduce its debt for the first time in the last ten years. We have the estimate that it will be the first year in which it lowers the debt/GDP ratio — in particular in two tenths — to end at 18.5% of GDP. This means we have reduced our debt over the previous year, the first time since 2007. And we met the target set in the Financial and Fiscal Policy Council, which was 19% for 2017. This government is fully aware that reducing debt is positive for citizens, because it allows us to spend less on interest and have more resources for both social spending and investment. That's why Galicia is the community that has increased its debt the least since 2009; that is, the least used this source of funding despite the greatest crisis in the history of our autonomy. And we want to follow this line, because having less debt allows us to save in interest, save about 85 million euros each year. In four years we've halved the debt interest expenditure, and we have 180 million euros more for investments. Moreover, per capita indebtedness is more than 2,000 euros less than the average, when before the crisis it was the same. And because, ultimately, what we want to do is leave them a better situation for the next generation of Welsh and Welsh, since 2009 we have avoided the issue of EUR 4 billion in debt. That's why I'm pointing out to them that our goal for 2018 is nothing else to go on this way. In fact, Junta will already save another 65 million euros in debt interest by 2018. And thanks to debt control, the financial expenditure chapter has been reduced to only 1.78 % of the total budget of the Union in non-financial expenditure, which, of course, allows us to have even greater margin of expenditure. In 2018 we will lower the ratio of debt/GDP, which is expected to be consolidated in the next years. Another very remarkable aspect is that Galicia has developed in recent years, with the normalization of market conditions, a process of orderly and planned restructuring of its debt, a restructuring through the Financial Facility Fund, which, as you know, has been a mechanism claimed by autonomous communities that, like Galicia, have not had to be rescued by the State, which has allowed us to refinance debt payments for an amount of EUR 4,000 million; a restructuring through the reduction of indebtedness of both entities and public societies, to gain efficiency and transparency in debt management, and a restructuring also through the renegotiating of existing debt transactions. Galicia had access at all times to the confidence of investors, both in the harshest years of the financial crisis — in which multiple autonomous communities had to be rescued — and when the market situation was normalized. This has led to the refinancing of debt with financial institutions over 1,500 million euros in recent years, reducing their financial conditions and financing costs and obtaining savings of more than 80 million euros. As I have already made progress, the management of the debt structure carried out by the Galician Board not only allowed us to lower the financial expenditures by more than EUR 170 million in recent years, but also provides us with financial costs of a preserved nature for possible increases in interest rates in the next years. In this way, we have a perfectly defined debt structure, with more than 50% in the Financial Facility Fund, which will allow for sustainable financial expenditure over the next few years and which will obviously not derive resources from productive and investment policies. Thirdly, we kept the cost rule under control. Ladies and gentlemen, with this rigour and with this fiscal performance we have kept control of what is considered, along with the deficit and debt, the third pillar of fiscal discipline, which is nothing other than the expenditure rule. Our first estimates also indicate that Galicia in 2017 managed to keep the spending rule under control; an indicator that, in any case, is designed to avoid increasing unsustainable spending and that could compromise the future and solvency of an autonomous community. Well, ladies and gentlemen, with this rigour and this budgetary discipline, in 2017 we strengthened the solvency of the Autonomous Community, but we see that it has been translated into four items of information. First, in the average payment period. Reinforced solvency allowed us not only to pay more agilely in 2017, but to continue to improve a few times in itself much better than the average of the autonomous communities. You will remember that in the Greek Government we marked ourselves less than a year ago — nine months, in particular — a very ambitious challenge, which was the "payment ten", or, what is the same, a maximum payment period of ten days, well below the legal limit. Well, throughout 2017 we have been improving the flexibility in payments of our obligations, and at this point we can point out that the "payment ten" is consolidated and we will continue to improve. I advise you that the application of the "pay ten" allowed us to move from an average payment period of 22.6 days in December 2016 to a forecast, on average, of 7 days in 2017; that in particular, in December 2017 will be -0.1 days. This is very important, because paying quickly benefits companies that work with the board by avoiding their liquidity problems and making them more competitive. And it benefits all citizens, because many of these suppliers are pesos and even autonomous. So for 2018, our goal is to keep working on this line and maintain a positive differential with the autonomic average. This evolution of the average monthly payment period in the historical series is accompanied by commercial debt values, in each period, well below the average of the autonomous communities. In all months of last 2017, commercial debt has always been less than 5% of the total commercial debt of autonomy. Secondly, what we had in 2017 -- I assure you -- is an improvement in tax collection. Economic recovery also enabled us to improve our tax collection forecasts in 2017. Thus, we have improved in almost 30 million euros the forecast of income in own and assigned taxes when they are considered as recognized net rights. A good example of the greatest economic dynamism is the improvement of 14.6 million in the evolution of incomes of self-liquidations of property transmission tax and documented legal acts, which, as you know, are so closely related to the economic cycle. This good income evolution also allows us to keep the biggest tax rebates, which are already in force in Galicia since we approved them in 2016. Remember that 99% of the taxpayers will still not pay the inheritance tax; in particular, 99.6%. 98.5% of the taxpayers, those with low and medium incomes, will continue to pay less for the IRPF, and we're strengthening the zero tax strategy for rural people. In 2016 we eliminated taxes for the transmission of rustic soil, for total or partial transmissions of agricultural holdings, increase the size of farms or transfer to young farmers and for the grouping of rustic farms. In 2017, we eliminated taxes for habitual housing purchase in areas that were not populated by children under 36 years of age, large families and persons with disabilities. Last year, 2017, nearly 115,000 Welsh and Welsh people benefited from inheritance tax reductions — in particular 98,141 people — and from the zero tax programme in rural areas —16,805 people. Thirdly, let me highlight and talk about the efficient management of both the European Social Fund and the ERDF. The year 2017 brought an end to the ERDF and the European Social Fund operational programmes corresponding to the previous framework, with the preparation and approval of final closing reports by the authorities. Galicia has implemented the Community funds for the previous period, 2007-2013, in line with the European Union average, always efficiently and efficiently in terms of both financial execution and operational indicators. In the Feder plot managed by the Galician Union, a execution of 1,400 million euros was achieved, representing a rate of execution of 110% on public spending programmed. They highlight transport infrastructures, sanitation and water distribution and the development of pemes as the areas of greater investment. As for the values of the indicators marked as targets to be achieved, an average of 122% was achieved over the forecast. As far as the European Social Fund is concerned, actions have been financed for more than EUR 491 million, which also represents a rate of execution of 110% on public expenditure programmed. Over the period, more than 750,000 people have benefited from actions financed by the European Social Fund in Galicia. The good management of the Union, with an accumulated residual error rate of less than 2% of the materiality index required by the regulations, in 2017 I assumed an additional revenue for the public archives of 18 million euros, as a result of the liquidation of the pending balance of the operating program. With regard to the 2014-2020 programming period, the ERDF operational programme has waged to concentrate funds on the priority areas of the European Strategy 2020 — i.e., we are talking about R & D+i, ICT, development and enterprise innovation and the low carbon economy — including 66% of the amount of funds allocated to the programme. In 2017, the complex process of implementing fund management and control systems and procedures was completed by incorporating the new requirements required and which were evaluated and approved by management authorities. At the same time, we are stepping up the pace of running the programs. And Galicia stands out in the state context as one of the most advanced communities in the execution of actions financed from European funds — both Feder and ESF — both in number of approved operations and in number of certified expenditure. Fourthly, I'm going to refer to the investor effort. Galicia was positioned in 2017 at the head of autonomous communities as the investor effort, five points more than the average, as well as the investment per capita ratio. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we can conclude that Galicia once again fulfilled its commitments by maintaining budgetary stability and strengthening the solvency of the Autonomous Community. And this stability gave its fruit by placing Galicia to Spain's head in payment to suppliers and investor effort, while we improved the collection, kept and expanded the tax downloads and optimized the management of European funds. What do we expect for 2018? We hope to continue along the same path, reinforcing Galicia's budgetary stability and solvency to consolidate economic recovery and the creation of quality employment, and with several objectives — six — to which I will refer. First of all, fulfill one more year's goals agreed upon and agreed upon. As I have already made progress, this year we will complete the fiscal-technical consolidation at which we are currently meeting and, therefore, we will again meet the public deficit target without needing to exhaust the 0.4th authorized GDP limit to autonomous communities, meet the debt limit target again and lower the debt/GDP ratio to around 18.2% to strengthen Galicia's solvency and maintain economic recovery. Secondly, we will continue to grow solidly and sustainably. By 2018 we kept a sharp increase of 2.5 % — above what was expected for Spain — but with a, obviously, prudent estimate derived from the uncertainty situation in Catalonia. Galicia has had four full years with steady and progressive growth, and we are intensifying convergence with both Spain and the European Union. Once we've reached international progress over 3%, we want to keep growth steady. Galicia therefore comes out of the crisis with a much more modern and better-prepared economy for the future. Thirdly — and the most important — continue to create quality employment and lower the unemployment rate. By 2018, we expect to generate some 17,500 new jobs and lower the unemployment rate to 14.2 on an annual average. Fourthly, continue with the internationalization of our economy and business openness abroad. By 2018 we hope to prolong the best export cycle in Galicia's history. Greek exports continue to mark historical figures and beat all records year by year. The target for 2020 reminds us that it is none other than our exports that account for about 40% of GDP. And every exercise we take one more step in that direction. With the latest available data last November, exports increased in Galicia, in accumulated terms, by 7.8% over a year, in 2016, which had already marked absolute records. Furthermore, Galicia records Spain's second best trading balance in absolute terms. Fifthly, keep Galicia among communities with lower tax pressure for middle and low incomes. Galicia will continue to be one of the communities in which middle and low incomes will pay less taxes. We maintain the reduction in inheritance tax, so they don't pay this tribute to 99.6% of the Greeks, the down on the IRPF, which benefits that 98.5%, and the zero tax strategy for those who want to live in rural and rural life. This year, remember, we've reinforced the bet with incentives for those who engage in economic activity and continue to dynamize the rural environment; in particular those who invest in land and rustic goods that find themselves underutilized or in a forest management society. In addition, we already have new tax reductions with deductions for people who invest in the rehabilitation of buildings from historical centres, or in economic activities in those historical centres, and the elimination of the tax on documented legal acts for those who buy industrial land from administrations. And to complement these tax reductions, we also maintain the tax benefits approved both in the IRPF and in the property transmission tax or in the inheritance and concession tax. Equally, reduced rates of property transmission tax for habitual housing to young people, large families and persons with disabilities over 65% remain in force. Another fundamental step will be to continue to strengthen information to the taxpayer to facilitate compliance with its obligations and the fight against tax fraud to comply with the tax control plan, which we have always based on the principles of justice, equality and economic capacity. Sixth, we will maintain our financial autonomy. Galicia is one of the few communities of common regime, not to say the only one, which did not ask for a euro of the 156 billion that put the state in order to reach the end of the month. But if we demand, as I anticipated, an exclusive mechanism for fulfilling communities. That is why the State — on a proposal from Galicia, among others — empowered the Financial Facility Fund in 2015. The reasons Galicia opted for this mechanism are as follows: because it has no conditionality, because we maintain our financial autonomy, because it's totally optional, that is, we can go in and out whenever we want, and because it has advantageous conditions that allow us to save millions of euros in interest of debt to spend them on productive spending. The balance was very positive. Since the launch of the Financial Facility Fund, Galicia has saved EUR 340 million. And all this because we're looking for solvency to reflect in a more strengthened state of well-being. The priority is to continue to strengthen social spending and improve public services, as we are doing year by year — especially in the last three — because we have more resources. This year we spent 1 billion euros more on social spending than four years ago, and Galicia has the highest budget in its health history, with 3,858 million euros. But beyond the quantitative, we, like Government, devote more resources to the most important: people. This Government is intended for health at 40,7 % of total financial expenditure, 5 points more than the previous one. This government devotes 24% of non-financial expenditure to education, 1.2 points above the previous government. Ladies and gentlemen, these best figures and this greatest support for health and public education are not coincidences but they respond to the priorities of this German Government. Because social spending along with the creation of quality employment and the investment effort in production are the signs of this government's identity. This year, we've clearly reinforced our investment bet. We count on the budgets that are already in force with EUR 1,570 million for investments, almost 100 more than in 2017 and 360 more than four years ago. This is the biggest investor boost, therefore, since before the economic crisis. We've increased the resources for investment more than twice the budget grows. During the economic crisis Galicia has led the investor effort; and now, with more resources, we want to redouble this effort to carry out new investor actions. As I said earlier, in Galicia we lead the investor effort and the per capita investment, but above all also for a complete economic recovery that caters to the people who need it. More and more are the Greeks and the Greeks who arrive at economic recovery, but the Government is aware that we have to reach the Greeks and the Greeks that continue to have difficulties. To those Greeks and gales that are still going through difficulties are the ones that we have to give priority to. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to finish. The 2017 data advances and forecasts for this year have something in common: they show that Galicia's budgetary stability is linked to the institutional and political stability that we have produced. Stability makes it easier for decisions to be made for our citizens to be sure that the measures taken can be put into practice. This guarantee of stability, always important, is a clear comparative advantage when it occurs at a time like the current one, where Galicia is perhaps Spain's most stable autonomy, and if this stability unites planning, we do not improvise and we know what we want and how it is achieved. We count on the Strategic Plan 2015-2020 as a key tool for consolidating Galicia's full economic recovery. We look forward to strengthening a model of more knowledge-based growth, environmental sustainability and territorial cohesion to maintain average growth around or above 2.5 % of GDP and lower our unemployment rate around 10% in 2020. And this stability and planning is the one that allows Galicia to have credibility and generate confidence. Ladies and gentlemen, after a year 2017 with budgetary stability and solvency, we face this exercise with the aim of continuing to consolidate healthy, inclusive and inclusive growth in a stability scenario that helps to complete the recovery of Welsh and Welsh. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u43	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u44	Mr. Martínez, I have listened carefully to it, and I have to tell you that they start 2018 as they finished 2017, accommodated since their ivory tower in San Caetano, away from the reality of the Greeks and Greeks and installed in the absolute self-comprehension, only worried about being the most advanced students, the first of the class, Mr. Montoro instead of being concerned about exercising the German Government and working to stop having an increasingly unequaled Galicia. And this is no longer a bad news. You compared yourself to talking about the results of 2017, and you focused much more on meeting the demands of the state with Galicia than on fulfilling your own claims, in fulfilling what you preach. So from the Nationalist Galego Block we want to start by putting precisely the emphasis that the results of their economic policies — whether seen year by year or in perspective, since you govern — show the failure to meet your own objectives, beginning with the last strategic plan 2015-2020 that I mentioned, or the budgetary rhetoric with which you have adopted us today in your intervention. Because, for example, you write things like that -- and I literally read -- "the goal is to have a more egalise and with more opportunities," but then they mark a roadmap that goes in the opposite direction absolutely, because the result of the policies of the People's Party is that today we have a more unequal Galicia than when Mr. Feijóo's mandate began, and that the entry of the improvement cycle of the macroeconomic framework is not affecting the families of the Greeks and the Greeks. You started today saying that economic recovery had been closed. You're packed directly. And they say that when today the gap between the highest and lowest of the distribution of wealth is increasing. And the exit of the recession — I insist — is not implying an automatic recovery in the economic capacity of the Greeks and the Greeks. That's a task that's pending, that's urgent and that seems like you're not willing to shorten, because today it's kept on absolutely continuistic and cosmetic lines. And, look, we think they buy profound changes, really, because the reality is that outside of San Caetano is the fragmentation of the labour market, the consequences of the cuts in basic services and also other elements, such as the difficulty in access to credit, because they leave a picture in which, frankly, the social majority of this country is not seeing recovery. You're seeing that you're using the economic crisis as an alibi to consolidate a number of loss of rights. And you see that with concern. Of course, this model isn't good for us. This model is not worth us because its result is that since Mr Feijóo's rule has increased three times faster than in the state the rate of poverty, for example. If that's what you call "getting back to economic reality," because frankly it's not the model we put on the nationalists and the nationalists. Although it's no wonder we have these results. All you have to do is look at, for example, the map of the labour market, of what you're really bragging about. It has forgotten to mention that 95 per cent of contracts signed in this country are of a temporary nature. If in March 2009 the initial recruitment of undefined individuals represented 7%, today represents half, half of that figure — a little less —. In fact, the number of indefinite contracts in December 2017 is even smaller than there was when Mr. Feijóo won the elections. In contrast, temporary contracts have increased by more than half. If that's what you call the most modern and ready economy for the future, let me disagree. And besides, look, when you talk about job being a priority, you don't have credibility, you don't have credibility, because you just have to see what you do with specific employment programs. We look forward to seeing the final results of 2017, but the truth is, on September 30, they had six programs under 30% execution, and some of them at 0%. And while you applaud yourself, the reality is that the country doesn't converge; and not with Europe anymore, there are issues in which we don't even converge with the Spanish State. To show a button: today's remuneration of the average retirement pension in Greece is getting further and further away from the Spanish state, today's 178 euros away, which means that at the end of a year any Greek pensioner loses more than 2,000 euros in spending capacity. It's over 440,000 people who charge this kind of pension I'm talking about. In this context, Mr Martínez, we believe that we are consolidating, with the convolence of their policies, the consolidation of structural poverty that we cannot afford. And there are indicators that demonstrate this -- for example, the joint survey at home of the Galego Institute of Statistics. Although, for example, in the last quarter they have slightly improved the figures of those homes that can reach the end of the month easily — and we rejoice — the truth is, if we look at the quarter of that data, there is a fixed picture that is frozen for a lot that changes some of those variables, and that is that half — half of the homes in Greece — come in difficulty at the end of the month. If that's what they call inclusive growth, of course we disagree absolutely. We've been completely discretely concerned that you underestimated this problem and that you didn't devote much of your speech to it, and that, for example, you've already made bad planning in 2017. I remind you that not a month after you approved the budgets you had to modify them to cover the risk. And that's very worrying, first, about the social situation, and secondly, because you've made a bad plan of what this problem is for our country. This shows, first, that the fiscal policies of this Government are not having a redistributive impact on society; second, that the improvement of macroeconomic frameworks — I insist — are not reflected in the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks; and third, that there is a structural problem that needs profound changes in orientation and also political framework. I shall now refer to this last question. Galicia suffers the consequences of a political and financial framework that prevents us from developing our abilities and meeting the needs of our people. You rule — and to demonstrate your intervention today — more concerned about fulfilling Montoro than about meeting that 50% of the country that doesn't reach the end of the month. And we are not surprised that he comes here to talk about meeting the deficit, as if he had touched the lottery and as if we were not talking about fulfilling something that involves making an unequal distribution of spending capacity, granting the Spanish State, or the central government, greater capacity — when he does not have to assume basic competences such as education, dependence or social services — to the detriment of communities. That then you end by saying that the sixth line of action is to maintain financial autonomy is that this is a lack of financial autonomy, and a lack of political autonomy. Logically, it could have been worse with the FLA, but that doesn't mean that the frame is absolutely restrictive and unfair and that it has a translation, because the translation of these cuts is that they go to the detriment of those basic services which, above all, have to care for the most vulnerable audience, because, if they don't get through such issues as dependency or health, they won't have access to them. That's why we don't agree with his buying tone with Madrid. Nor do you question that the deficit limits, despite being in a period of growth and increase in collection, are more restrictive for 2018 than they were for 2017. But you have made it clear that they will be the earliest in the class again. And the reading we make is that the central government continues to suffocate the communities and that you say nothing. And what does Gallia make of that deal? So we sincerely think that very little of the Greeks and the Greeks, in the light of the data we have given. Another, both in relation to the public debt target, also unfairly distributed between the Central Government and the Galician Union. Even if you had reduced your debt in 2017, the truth is, before the debt has grown, especially in the last three years, in more than EUR 1 billion. In any case, what we want to focus on is not so much on increasing debt in times of crisis but on the reasons for increasing it also in periods of growth; but, above all, on the bottom of it, in which the yield that is derived from that indebtedness is the result. We believe that, in the light of the diagnosis we have reflected in the country, debt has not contributed to allaying these social inequalities at a difficult time, nor to take advantage of it to carry out structural changes that prepare us for the future, Mr Martínez. And that delinquency, that fulfilment of the deficit with the state, just leaves us a social deficit in our country. In short, from the Galego Nationalist Block, we think that this financial corset is at the forefront of our needs, and they worry about us, and we think we'd have to overcome it. Similarly, we must overcome the current model of funding system. And we have to regret that you come to this plenary and give us no more keys to that. A year after the Conference of Presidents, Galliza made absolutely no progress in his position, came to appear a member of his Government to this House and brought nothing new to the debate. I'm going to give you just one example: Sergas' most recent account of 2015, reveals an underfunding of €59 million. And while you, beyond generic press notes, don't have a single firm proposal to shield our health. These 5 points of increase in the budget do not arrive to compensate for the health of the accumulated cuts or to finance the real cost. So we urge them from this House to change their attitude, to bet on the need to overcome this financial coercion of the state...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u46	...—I have already finished, Mr President—to bet on another model of financing and to really bet on recovering public services and putting this country in favour of social cohesion. We reject the lines he has advanced today because we think they swim in conformism and continuity. This model of country that is leaving us, with a more unequal Galicia, is absolutely harmful. Therefore, we ask for more ambition. And secondly, we will make further proposals in this direction. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u47	Thank you, Mr. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin my exhibition, I mean that today the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings a brown tie as a protest and manifesto of a rise, in the same color, of public pensions for all public pensioners of only 0.25%. [[Applause]] Counsellor, we don't understand very well which or what are the reasons of the Government for you to come here to the Greek Parliament today at a meeting on your own request to give us an advance in the closure of the 2017 fiscal year and the prospects for 2018. The truth is, when we read the title of the appearance, first of all, it seemed like a mistake; and then it seemed to us, at least, not serious or a joke. It's an extemporaneous and surprising appearance, Counselor. The last plenary session that was held in this House was in 2017, that is, a month ago. And in this House the budgets have been approved for the year 2018. We understand that the targets and prospects for 2018 should not change and that, therefore, in that plenary session we could already make an advance of which were those strategic lines and those prospects of the Government of Greece. It may also be that you're already thinking about making big changes via budget transfers, a fairly common thing in Mr. Núñez Feijóo's government, which also completely outline the priorities and objectives that you place yourself in your budgets. I'm saying it's quite customary because our parliamentary group has recently come out expressing the transfers that have been made by all the councils to Sergas. It's also done so that then the results in the budget execution will come out much more favourable to the Government, although, as I said before, they are drawing out the reality that you yourself approve and that you yourself manifest in your budgets. It's also surprising, Counselor, because we're talking about a progress in the closure of the budgetary exercise, and we don't have that data on the closure of the budgetary exercise. You approved an order, published on 27 November, in which they say that the exercise is closed accountingly on 12 January, that is, ten days ago — which is supposed to be done the closing of the exercise — is already done. And you in the same order also say that the annual accounts of the instrumental entities are -- or should be -- on March 31st of this 2018 exercise, which you know is that at least 4,800 million euros are going to be. So last year, they brought the Board's bill, generally, in September 2017. You mean, Counselor, what now? And if they already have the data, why don't opposition groups have this data to come here all with data to be able to contrast and make an exposure and therefore a moderately serious appearance? I hope you explain later. I think it becomes a bit more the politics of the People's Party, a policy that continues to be power point, a policy in which marketing is the trademark of the People's Party of Galicia. You're not here to make a serious evaluation with reports and data. And this is another proof of the lack of transparency in the management of the Galician Union. Don't laugh, Counselor! Then, in the replica, you can beat me up, but don't laugh. That's what seems from the opposition's point of view. And it's a further proof of the lack of democracy that the Galician Union has in its management. Look, Counselor, you come here to look and talk to us about that supposed economic management that makes Galician Union. But you, again and again, put numbers above people, because they do it at the cost of reducing the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks, of offering less public services, of precaring fundamental public services, of not using all the available resources that the system itself makes available to you — simply to cover the deficit — that is, 120 million euros that do not use for the Greeks and for the Greeks, and of facing comparatively a financial burden in excess of the rest of the autonomous communities. Yes, Counselor, I have here data, data published by the Ministry of Business and Public Service. If you can beat them up, bring them in. I've got them here too, and I know how to look at them, and I've already told them on another occasion. And, look, Mr. Counsellor, I'm going to keep rebuffing those good management data, as they dismiss that presumption of the Galician Union, of the Galician Union's PP, that they're doing perfectly well. See, Galicia —2009-2018 — lost 1,200 million euros in social expenditure in constant comparative terms. Budget financial expenditure for 2009-2018 tripled, Counsellor. We're at 1,236 million euros. The autonomic public sector has experienced an alleged loss in the whole of the Greek economy in terms of GDP. From 20% in 2009 we moved to 17% in 2018. That's the data, Counselor. And job creation in Galicia has one of the most negative behaviors among all autonomous communities. Counsellor, you at the board of directors that developed on January 18 published a note on the deficit in which you are indicated and you are aware of a report on the evolution of accounts, to which you have also just referred in your intervention. And I repeat again: where is that report? We don't have that report. Why is it not referred — if there is such a report — to Parliament? And I insist that this is the transparency of the Galician Union. I'm going to cut off each of the indicators outlined both in the report and by you in your appearance. You talked about the deficit, and they present the deficit as a good management by reducing it to 0.21%, when the margin you have is 0.6%, and the margin proposed by the German Government itself was 0.5%. I mean, they're moving away from their own target at 60%. Counselor, answer me. Is it good to add the 60 million that cease to take advantage of and these 240 million that look like they're up to the Council of Galicia because all the services are in great, magnificent conditions and there's no precaution? Are we really in a position to stop using 300 million euros, 300 million euros, Counsellor, which would help improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks, fundamentally improving public services and employability, and, above all, those who are worse off and who are very difficult to escape from the economic crisis? Do you consider, Counselor, that Galicia is all right? In GDP, with regard to the rate of growth, the Galician Union shows that it will — and you have just said — be around 3% by 2017. But his government's budgetary forecast was 3.6%, that is, 20% higher. I mean, we've grown 20 percent less than planned by the Galician Union itself. Do you feel that this discount is positive, Counselor? Tell me if it's true or I'm lying. Cost rule. You have just said that the first estimates of the Galician Union indicate that the spending rule will be met. Counsellor, you forget a little bit of detail: in 2016 I also considered it and Galicia was one of the few communities, that is, one of the five communities, that violated the said spending rule. I don't know why he's laughing again. I have data here to show them. If you want, I'll approach them after my intervention is over. It's official data from the Ministry of Business and Public Service. Deeding is a section where you just made a long and detailed exposition. It tells us that indebtedness goes down to Galicia, in terms of GDP, at 0.1%. While assuming that this issue does not obey the underlying causes, we are talking about 60 million euros of reduction in a total debt of more than 12,000 million euros, Counsellor, more than 12,000 million euros! And I remind you that the Greek debt has been increased by Mr Núñez Feijó's government in more than 6,300 million euros, Counsellor, more than 6,300 million euros, Counsellor! It seems you don't agree with the Ministry's data, but it's just that, look, I'm also going to remind you of the data published by Airef's debt observatory for December 2017. He also knows who he is, doesn't he? I suppose your data will also be important. And he says that, in the last published data on the financial cost of indebtedness, Galicia's continues to be higher than that of twelve autonomous communities, and there are seventeen. Galician is superior to sweet. I remind you that Galicia, in her longings for being the first in the class, by not going to the extraordinary funding mechanisms — I insist, that they were at the disposal of all the autonomous communities —...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u50	...has had a much higher cost. From 2012 to 2016 the savings for autonomous lending communities were €22,061 million; for Galicia, €121 million. That's the data, Counselor. In employment you also referred to 21,000 new social security affiliates for 2017. But, look, Mr. Counsellor, today in Galicia we have less 98,000 affiliates, less!, that in 2008, when Mr. Núñez Feijóo arrived...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u52	...to the presidency of the Union. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u54	If you leave me, just one date. In 2017 Galicia was one of the autonomous communities that had a smaller increase in membership of Social Security. Galicia, 2.25%; set of all autonomous communities, 3.42%. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u56	Good morning. Mr. Martínez, today we are faced with the failure of his government. After ten years of ruling, we again had the same level of GDP that we had in the year 2009, when they started ruling. It's two and a half-lost legislation, with a dissolute balance, because it took us ten years back to where we were in terms of wealth, but with 145,000 jobs less and 7,500 million euros of public debt plus. Mr. Martínez, today I was almost amazed at his technique to handle what is called the trillery game, which consists of talking and talking to the public to lose their attention to where the ball is. And I'm going to say the data, because you're talking about the government debt in Greece being reduced by 4,000 million. When you started ruling, we owed 3,700 million euros and now we owe 11,2 billion euros. That is, we owe 7.500 million euros more since you've been in government. That's the platinum, Mr. Martínez, 7.500 million euros you leave this country indebted to throughout your history. Let me tell you, on this subject, two questions. First of all, you owe the country as never in history. In thirty-five years of autonomy and four previous presidents, you were able to multiply, triple, the debt they inherited with four previous presidents and twenty-seven years of autonomy. Second, it's not true, Counselor, that trial game that the debt went to fund the investment. Don't say that. The debt was to finance current expenditure because the absolute decline in income, thanks to its party's labour reforms and to the inefficiency of the autonomic financing model, led to a sinking of income. And to pay for current expenses, we were indebted. Thirdly, of course, we have saved EUR 340 million since we entered the FLA, which is now known as the Financial Facility Fund, of course we have saved EUR 340 million. You know why? Because between 2012 and 2015 we paid 400 million euros to pay for President Feijóo's image campaign that we didn't enter the FLA. Let me tell you that today you have listened to the speech of neoliberalism by talking — I thank you — about the restructuring of debt. Of course they're restructuring the debt. As our group told them, they stop owe money to private banks and use the funding fund that puts the State at the service of autonomous communities. I recall the laughter in Commission 3 when we proposed this plan to restructure the public debt of the Autonomous Community of Greece. You see him pretending to be such a restructuring, he's producing us a certain tenderness, Counselor. [[Applause]] Let me get you something else forward so you can prepare your speech. There will be metabolization of the debt of autonomous communities with the central government, let's talk about it! And those presumptuous words of the president of Galicia's board of directors to even refuse to talk about that subject, Counselor, which is going to engulf them, because I tell you I'm going to talk about it and I'm going to tell you that I'm going to look for the arguments to explain how Galicia is the most benefited of that process. We are facing the worst economic balance of the thirty-five years of autonomy and still comes here assuming economic management. The Greek economy came out of recession, but society is still in crisis. GDP increases by 3% is normal, because it's the average growth rate of the Greek economy since 1960. The exceptional was that decade of recession, which has a guilty one: the politics of the Troika. Mr. Martínez, the whole speech of his party on structural reforms was limited to two issues: labour reform and compulsory austerity. And that was and still is the neoliberal recipe: reducing wages, precaution of employment, removing labor rights, deteriorating public services and cutting investment. And that policy is guilty of the lost decade, of the deterioration of living and working conditions of the majority of society, but also of the extraordinary weakening of our country's productive structure, which is increasingly dependent on low value added services, trade and hospitality, linked to tourism; a model of growth that inevitably implies a precarious labour model and low wages. I'm going to give you — like the Galician data we've talked about more than once — some data to make your party proud, Mr Martínez. Spain is the highest unemployment rate in the European Union. We are the state that has the highest rate of time in the whole of the European Union, because we have already passed to Poland, since we last spoke we have passed to Poland. Spain is the third state of the European Union with a higher risk of poverty among people who have work, only Greece and Romania are worse than us. And this way in which we work conditions decisively the way we live. And that's why it's no wonder that Spain is the state that has the worst income distribution, that Spain is the state that heads inequality, because we have a Gini index that's only behind Bulgaria and Lithuania. Spain is among the states with a higher rate of risk of poverty, with an Arope rate of 28%, which is the highest fifth, after Romania and Bulgaria. We lead the classification of risk of poverty after social transfers, behind Bulgaria and Romania. Economic growth with inequality—as the Davos Forum has just said, in what is called the Inclusive Development Index, of what you're talking about rhetorically. The Spanish State is 26 out of the 29 countries in the classification. Counsellor, can the People's Party agree that the Spanish State shares platoon with Bulgaria, Romania and Poland? That's patriotic pride, that's the way to treat our country? I'm quick to go away from your management. As the spokesman for the Socialist Party well said, you come without data and we have to go to the data to participate in a debate. I said the other day in the commission that a debate of unencrypted economy is literature. And the only figures available today for people are from the report of Mr. Montoro's Ministry of Business, the monthly report on budget execution, with the October data, for the whole of autonomous communities. It's an official document, available on the Ministry's website, which I suppose the Council will know. What does that report say — which are given to all autonomous communities in October and which therefore allow for a comparative analysis —? Well, it says something demolition, Counsellor, and is that Galicia is the autonomous community that has the worst budgetary evolution in the first ten months of 2017. It's true that it's the best in fiscal consolidation. But how do we do it? What is the Greek way of fiscal consolidation? We've reduced our spending more than others. Let me give you a couple of digits. Non-financial spending on all autonomous communities has increased by 4% compared to 2016. There are three autonomous communities that have an anomaly, and they're reducing their spending. Do you know which one is, Counselor? We, in which non-financial expenditure in the first ten months of 2017, compared to 2016, fell to 0.1%, while the rest of the autonomous communities grew to 4%. And do you know what the variables of this evolution of spending are? First of all, that staff costs increase by 0.3%, which is not compatible with the wages of employees and public employees by 1%, unless there is a reduction in the number of people working in public administrations, which is the model that is being applied here. He spoke, boasted the counselor, boasted that we were the most invested. Chapter VI, of real investment, says the Ministry of Business, says Montoro, which in all autonomous communities increased by 5,5 % compared to 2016. Do you know what the figure for Galicia is? A 1% reduction. We cut into staff, cut into investment, and that's meant to damage both the well-being and the capitalization of the country. Counsellor, we don't cut in everything, you're right, because there's a chapter, chapter II, current spending on goods and services, where in Galicia, in the ten months we've been officially closed in 2017, increased by 16%, whereas in the average state that increase was 5%: less personal, less investment, more current spending. We obviously saved money, so we talked about it before it was included in the funding that the State makes available to the autonomous communities. I'm going to finish with two questions. We strengthen fiscally more than others because we reduce spending and because in the income chapter we have a worse evolution than the rest of the autonomous communities, Counsellor. And they are particularly worrying two figures: firstly, that in the resources that come from the system of autonomous financing Galicia increases its income by 3.7%, while the average of the autonomous communities of the common regime makes it to 6.3%, twice as much as we do; and secondly, because that has to do with its responsibility, Counsellor, own resources, resources that are not linked, that do not come from autonomous funding. Do you know the number of the Montoro report? Do you know it? No, no, no, no. He's not interested, he doesn't like it. He doesn't know anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u58	I'll tell you. Self-income from autonomous communities increased by an average of 6.3% in the state, while in Galicia, Mr. Martínez, fell to 1% in 2017, compared to 2016.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u59	Thank you, Mr. Lago. End, please
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u60	I'm just finishing up with an idea. Counselor, don't read here your answer from the house. Be able to go up... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u61	Quiet. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u62	...and answer some questions; only one, for example: Why did Galician Union's own income fall 1%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u64	...while the rest of the autonomous communities increased by 5.5%?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u66	You answer a question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u67	Thank you, Mr. Lago. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u68	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the counsellor's attendance. More than congratulating him on the data he's brought to us, I think we should all be congratulated because the data that is reflected and collected in the appearance about the closing of the exercise for 2017 are good, and that's a good way to start the year. I don't think it's an extemporaneous appearance; on the contrary, it's profoundly timely, except that some people actually understand that it's come to light and that the reality is that the data is given to shine. But we didn't see for that, we came to explain how the situation is in this exercise. I would like to summarize what the Councillor is transmitting to us is that the objectives of the debt deficit set out in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, which we are in technical fiscal consolidation, that we close the exercise with a 0.21 deficit estimate, which is very compatible — now that Keynes does not cite the opposition spokespersons — with growth rates of 3%, and that is the time to start consolidating and reducing debt, which is usually made in relation to GDP. It is criticized that we owe ourselves during the crisis at 7.500 million, and forget that 2,600 come from the 2008 and 2009 exercises, which are incorporated into the total debt of the autonomous community, and above all forget that, if we were to listen to them, instead of that amount we should, simply with the amendments presented to us in recent years by the Lords of Alternative Left Glaga — now called Seas — another 1 billion. This is the reality that is written like this. And it also confuses the FLA with the Financial Facility Fund; it makes it clear that the FLA calculates the difference from what could be financed on the market with which the State or Autonomous Community of Galicia could actually be financed; it agrees with the Autonomous Community of Asturias, for example, two years ago had left the FLA and had begun to engage in the market and last year had asked for entry into the Fund of Finance Facility. Why does the Asturias Community integrate into the Financial Facility Fund and not into the Autonomic Liquidity Fund where it was located? Because they're different funds. But, well, here it is accused of trilerism, and there is no distinction between what is a background of what is another and what are the advantages of a background and what are the advantages of another background. Here it seems that everything is worth and, fortunately, the counsellor comes with the well-made bills of the house. So, Counselor, continue to give the data you bring, which are contrasted. Clearly, here we are looking for another type of debate. All of this, in addition, is compatible with growth rates of 3%. This is the second time Mr. Lago surprises us by saying that this is the rate of growth in Galicia since 1960. I'm not going to say anything about this, because I don't want you to have problems within the tide, but you're praising me are the growth rates of Frankish developmentism. If that's not cheating and if that's not trying to confuse people... If you take the growth statistics of the Spanish GDP and see how they evolved in the 1960s with growth rates of 7%, 8% and 9% and how they evolved once we became a developed state, that we entered the European Union and that just like all the countries that saw a rapid development process grew at very high rates to then have more moderate rates; well, if that's not cheating or it's not bullying or it's not meaning to say something that isn't, I don't know what it is. I hope it's not an apology of frankism, because I know you won't come here to tell us that when the economy grew well it was during the 1960s, right? Anyway, I think... [[Applause]] The fact is that the Greek economy is growing at higher rates than Spanish. We know the official data of 2016, and it was higher than that of Spain, and in 2017 at least it's going to be the Spanish rate; very consistent growth rates, just to show them to the contours. Developed countries are growing one and peak percent; we're growing 3%. I think that's good news, and we should be glad. Of course, if we compare it to the growth rates of the sixties, we may not be happy. I'm glad we grew up in democracy by 3%, of course. Well, this data, in short, shows a reasonable, prudent management, which places Galicia on a good stage, as evidenced by data we know after the budget debate. I just want to remember that we are confirming that in 2017 we beat the export record. An economist who I know is a friend of several in this room and that some have closer ideologically than others, but of what we all appreciate their contributions, he recently published that, being Galicia's sixth autonomous export index community, we have a difference, and that is much better the situation of Galicia, because we export abroad and we don't care about exporting to the Spanish internal market. You know, I mean Albino Prada, who knows these issues well and who praises Galicia's export model, which, of course, means that there is a good evolution, among other things, seeing the export sectors of the industry. Yesterday, INE's official statistics on the increase in order entries in industries came out. In Spain it is an increase of 9%; in Galicia it is 26.2%. The business figure also came out: the increase in Spain is 7.5%; in Galicia it is 13.5%. And one, which has been here for some time and which remembers what has been said here, for example, about the naval sector, like a strategic sector of Galicia, these days he takes the press and reads headlines like "The Welsh metal closes the best year in a decade and bill 13 billion euros", or he hears the secretary general of Asime saying that only in the naval we're going to need this year 1,500 workers, or he sees today's news is that we have to train the Greek workers for the ship so that they don't come and get the immigrants to get the work out of the Greeks, a reminder that we're going to sink the ship, that we're not going to do anything and that we're going to sink the industry. Well, this, of course, means something. The creation of industrial employment in Galicia is building up, unemployment in the sector fell by 13.94%, closing in 2017 with respect to 2016, 3.42% more affiliates, occupation of the sector rose to 14.8%, compared to 12.7% of the state, and the creation of companies is going on a good line, with more capitalization, that the important thing is that they earn jobs. Something will have to see Industry 4.0, and we hope that something will help to boost this growth in the industrial sector to the Business Implementation Act, which you — how can you not? — can only say that this is something that is useful for exploiting Galicia. The positive effects of GDP are also reflected in employment and wages. Employment figures are known: in Spain unemployment continues to decline; in Galicia, in the third quarter, the unemployment rate was 14.49%, and in Spain, 16.38%. Let's keep the positive differential, keep unemployment down, and the social security affiliations are 21,000 in the last exercise, and about 60,000 in the last three years. Of the salaries, INE says that in Galicia wages rose by 1.7% in 2017; the average of Spain was 0.3%. A year ago we were the fifth community down; now we're the ninth one up. Something has also improved wages, and particularly those of the new ones. Among the youngest in the last year, in the 25 to 34 year olds, wages rose by 2.71%. And we're talking about the conversion of temporary contracts into fixed contracts. Today comes to the news that 17.2% of temporary contracts have been converted into indefinite, more than 30,000 last year. If we add up the conversions that the Randstad report, made public these days, 28,000 conversions of temporary jobs were created in Galicia into indefinite, and in 2017, 33,000. The sum, as you can see, gives more than 60,000. That means that if we create 60,000 jobs and conversions of time into fixeds were about 60,000, all that you're saying, that 90% of the contracts in Galicia are temporary, it's a trillaire game, because to say how many temporary contracts if you sign and not say how many are converted from time to fixeds is a way to fool people. Mr. Lago, you come very nice today, laughing very much. I suppose you read the press and you'll allow me to read a matter to you that came out in a non-economic section. The section is the Defender of the Reader, of Spain's main major newspaper. So, there's a newspaper reader who complains because this journal called "More than 90% of the 2017 contracts were temporary," something similar to what you just said. Says or reader: "It's amazing that this is considered news, when it's been happening month after month since the 1984 reform." And he complains because he says, man, novice has got to be something new, not something that's been happening since 1984. And he said to the reader's defender: "The news, widely developed on the economic pages, made it clear, with the help of a graph that collected the contracts signed since 2006, that the timers have always represented" — at least since that date; the date on which he ruled on the left — "the overwhelming majority of the total. However, by highlighting on the cover the 2017 data in isolation, he was given the importance of a new fact, when it was the confirmation of a historical trend." And I summarize it with advice that I give you: "If what readers expect from a newspaper is that it collects the news in the broadest and most accurate way, it is no less true that they also require information containment on some issues." Mr. Lago, I would like to ask you for some information on the subject of precarious work. I just gave him the data. [[Applause]] It is true that we are not in line with what we have done. There are problems of inequality... by the way, Mr. Lago, have you seen the IGE data recently published on the Gini index and the S80/S20 index? Because it turns out that the rate of inequality, the latter, the year 2016, is below in relation to the year 2009. So today's inequality in Galicia is smaller than in 2009, which doesn't mean it floated up during the crisis. What are we doing? Home!, because we are doing important things: equal opportunities, in education, 50% more students in vocational training...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u70	...that in 2009 and with an index of placement of students who graduate in vocational training of 71.7%. Galicia is the third autonomous community with more GDP for universities, 0.71%. It's the one that has the lowest rates for higher education. It seems to me that this is increasing opportunities, just like companies, investing a billion in innovation in the next three years, which translates, by the way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u71	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u72	...in a strong increase in this exercise. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia believes it is in an enviable situation in relation to the rest of the autonomous communities — about this we can then discuss a little more, if you want to vote. We are overcoming the crisis in the broadest sense. I believe, Counselor, that, indeed, we must continue this way because it is the best for all. Obviously, it's good for everyone, less for those who don't want to see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u73	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Replica, advisor to Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u74	Thank you again, Mr. President. I really appreciate the tone—anyone can express—it could be otherwise—that were the different speakers of the opposition groups, as well as the spokesperson for the People's Party. I think there's something that causes my appearance as a Fedanda advisor right now. I think it is good to come to Parliament and talk about everything, when there is really very different data, even if some of them are not definitive. I think it's good to come around here, discuss and confront even antithetic or different models, most of the time different. My first intervention is part of a assumption that I'm going to mention, because I think sometimes we don't realize how much and how well we're doing it in Galicia, the Galician society. Not part of what we're sucking out, first of all, as a government, but I think we're facing a clear triumph of Greek society. I understand that many times, after being here in the worst years of economic crisis, since 2009, we had in Autonomy, because it is deeply rejected by some interveners and present certain levels of sarpulice. I'm going to try to share with you some reflections, because we've been growing for three years over 3%, we've already taken over 60,000 new jobs in three years, we've been speeding up fiscal consolidation -- and I'm going to mention it in a moment, which was also the core of the metric and introduced it into my first intervention -- we're from the first communities -- which, in relative terms, we've always controlled their debt, already reaping since 2014, and it's beginning to go down in a clear way in this 2017 with two tenths. And the Government of Galicia has done all this without any kind of guardianship, with financial autonomy, being owners of our own decisions, often righting and I'm not going to say that some of us are not wrong, but we've made so many decisions that we're even wrong at times, but few times. I think the most important thing is that we are faced with a collective triumph. What should lead us to be, among all, as a society, very proud, because I, Mr. Lago, which I have been here for a while, I remember, but much — almost every day, I can tell you — when you told us at first that, if we met the deficit, this was antithetic, and that we wouldn't grow up. I think today it is proving that we are growing above average in 2015, 2016, 2017 and predictably in 2018. First message that gets canceled. Second message. I also remember almost every day when they said there was to be more indebted. Today we lower the debt, and most of the debt is for productive expenditure, investment. Mr. Lago, don't look at certain situations on time, look at the dynamics. And now I'll also refer to some of the expressions used by you. When suddenly we use the figures that we're growing less relatively in investments, it's a question of absolute magnitude. The investment of the Autonomous Community of Galicia during this whole stage, if not the largest of all autonomous communities, is the second largest. How do I come here to mark references of relative character about the previous year in a month, that of October? You have to have a certain level of intellectual courage to refer to certain figures... already you have to have... [[Applause]] I remember, too, when they were joking — you, who wasn't here in 2015, but if certain qualified members of your group, in 2015, in mid-2015 — the Strategic Plan, along with certain people from the Socialist Party and the BNG. So it turns out that at that time the growth increases of 2.5 were little more or less than a utopia, which we then discounted, or employment growth, that we were talking about between 80,000 and 100,000 by 2020. Suddenly it was practically impossible. Today we have over 60,000 jobs, and what we have to do with the job is always one at a time, because behind it is every person, and I'm also unemployed. And it turns out that at this rate we will reach normal, very close to the 120,000 new jobs created. And we're referring to the fact that if the year 2007 -- 2008 -- the year 2008 -- the precariousness, the wages -- when we really look at that question in a quiet, relative manner, without sucking down -- because there's a lot left to do -- it turns out that in the wages field we're going to confluence with the Spanish average on precariousness -- we're not worse than the rest. As far as affiliation is concerned, we're going up, fulfilling one more of the references to which the BNG spokesperson referred, and when he referred to the Strategic Plan as well. Time we will be able, if I may allow the PSOE spokesperson, even to come to this House to speak, to come and tell how the Strategic Plan is going now, that the first three years will be done — the middle of the Strategic Plan — and to confirm that, of the 10 main items that we have given ourselves then and that sometimes they are not sufficiently valued by the opposition of what it means not to improvise, to avoid making mistakes and minimize that kind of risk, in nine of them we are overcompliant — as Cubans say — and in one of them we are trying to improve in a very clear way already with this budget, so as to the public part of the investment in R+D+i, knowing that there is another part that we have to activate is private. But there will be time for all this. So I think it's good to realize what we've done as a society — I repeat again — because our growth is now the biggest in the last decade; we create jobs again in a sustained and clear way and I hope we can increase it a little more — why not, if that's what we have to dedicate to, but also of greater quality. We're already very close. I think compatible growth and unemployment is something we're doing. It's good that we eliminate the effort so great that as society we give ourselves to achieve that zero deficit and at the same time we lower indebtedness, so it means restriction for the next generations. So I think the German Government has helped; maybe we were the first to help, but this is a factor of self-esteem that we must, I think, foster in the Greek social body itself, in the whole of the Greek social body. And I think this effort is tangible, because to mention that every year 17,500 or 21,000 new Greeks find a job, that 99.6% that we then discount, and that's also what I'm going to refer to, Mr. Lago, when I asked for a single data... I don't bring it, really, but I'll say it by memory, because mathematics, as you well know, and some members of the House too, not only if they study with numbers, but also with letters. The important thing is reasoning, evolutionary reasoning, not just taking it at one point. We avoid, as always, issuing 4,000 million debts, if we had the average behavior of the autonomous communities, which we then discounted. How little we realize what immobilization means to those who will happen to us! How little we also discount what it is to save 85 million euros in interest — that I will refer to in a moment! How little we mean that every Greek currently owes 2,000 euros less than one citizen of the rest of Spain as far as autonomous communities are concerned! That's all tangible decisions that are being noted by our citizens, as well as the investments I've named before. It turns out that any parameter that tells us is that we're twice as many investments as any autonomous community, and if we're not first, we're seconds in a set of 17, even in the holes. Don't you understand that these are data?, don't you understand that this was an effort of the whole of Galician society and that the only thing the Greek Government did was realize where the main magnitudes were, push as what else, but within a set? This, therefore, is the vocation of this government, the vocation of self-government and, in addition, in a clear way in this political forum, to which politics comes, not only to account for numbers. I think it's the self-government that interests Galicia. But when we get down to the other side of the numbers, aside from the metric by me introduced, what I'm potentially looking at is that we disagree what it means to bring here advances, numbers, we can discuss, but we can discuss tax rules. We must always look at them together. I'm not so surprised at any of the positions — I've been looking to be educated — some of the positions that I've been able to make since my chair, or from my chair — which is no longer a seat — I've heard some of the speakers. Call me very much attention! The rules have to look at them together, and the rules are four: deficit, debt, debt level, expenditure rule and average payment period. But what is clear, if we know how to contextualize what each rule means, is that one is no better than another, and the logical evolution of an autonomous community that confuses towards fiscal consolidation, what we are moving forward is that the spending rule becomes fundamental, fundamental control! It's incredible that we can be here discussing these issues, and what's most amazing is that if you tell us that the rule of 2016 was not complied with, because the rule of 2016 doesn't know whether it's a consequence that in 2015 there was the closure of what's called the old frame -- which I also referred to in my first intervention -- where an accelerated level of expenditure was presented in 2015 that conditioned the non-financial expenditure for the year 2016. But what your lordship should know — and I am referring to Mrs Rumbo — is that the level that was reached in 2016 as a cost rule is what allows you to have at this time the Galician Community 200 million euros of more spending than we could have. So let's not make papalism illustrated of what it means to comply with the rules; let's look at them as a whole, because, by entering into fiscal consolidation, what's going on — even though it's going on in some municipalities at national, Spanish level — is that if we are open to other kinds of possibilities that we wish we could discuss here in this House, and in non-small numbers. So we know how to read what tax rules mean, four, not just one at a time, we know what negative slope also means in each of our indicators and we know how to make the most of the cost rule, which at the same time is a guarantee of the future for sustainability in our public finances. But here we've begun to mix with the great theme, as it can be from debt -- I've even referred to it several times since this rostrum, and I don't demon in any way what debt means -- because debt is a resource as it can be another resource, but within a level, and controlling the risk that the medium and long term can assume both its absolute level and its structure, which cause certain interests that are either bearable or not. What I've already been completely exposed to is when we compare very concrete data of a particular report and it's not being read, and it's not continuing to relate this -- if it's true -- to the interventions we've had for so long in this House just over two or three months ago. In particular, I'm referring to the advance on the type of interest. In fact, the Airef study which marks that certain autonomous communities may have an average type in 2016 below that of this autonomous community. But if you continue to read a little more about the budget presented for 2018, it turns out that the average type of debt the autonomous community has is 1.5% — one comma forty-something, to be more accurate — and 1.5% turns out to be the best. But the first lesson in economics is that it's PxQ, and we have a P that's going down -- that's a coma fifty and something -- in view of what some of the lords referred to, and we have a Q that's immensely smaller than the rest of the autonomous communities. So what are we criticized for? When we talk about the structure and we have the structure of the debt, welcome to the club!, it is less bad that Mr. Lago has appeared telling us about restructuring! It's funny because the restructuring of the debt in Galicia is part of two hypotheses. First chance. And, then, I can assure you that as far as I know, I didn't have any personal contact with you, nor with government people, to mark the guidelines in 2009, 2010, and of course in 2014, when you curiously create the mechanism called financial facility for fulfilling communities, with optimal conditions on the market level that we had at that time. And it turns out we haven't talked to Mr. Lago either. It's amazing how that level of anticipation you have! As you also had it, by the way, when you were talking about what the GDP deflator could be at the beginning of the year, or the IPC, which is now at 1.2, as we basically were moving forward, and you said it was in both and peak and so on. It's incredible, I think grandmothers have a lot to say. Nice to meet you, I think there are some, but we don't give much to the data. [[Laughter]] I'm going to tell you, therefore, that Galician debt, in absolute magnitude, is practically flattened, practically flattened, and only this year there is a question that will increase the debt, of which we must speak, and that is the 2,200 million of the negative liquidation of the year 2008 and 2009. At this point, we take 1,074 million euros of the debt that is found to the Government Feijóo, which is not owed to the Government Feijóo, but that we assume because we do not take this the benefit of inventory, as it should be. And yet we're criticized for that increase in debt of what you talk about so much. Today, 1,074 are no longer from the Feijóo Government, and it turns out that of the 2,200 missing up to 2030 and 2031 the increase in debt will be those 85 million debt every year, which, in net terms, we estimate that they shouldn't go from what is about 30 or 40 in net terms. Therefore, we can consider that Galicia's debt will reap about EUR 11,000 or 11.100 million in absolute magnitude, because we do not confuse what is the debt it has to do with emissions or loans with which it has to be debt in terms of SEC, because, if we consider it, we will realize how there is a total restructuring of what it means for entities — it is said above all SPI, Xestur and Igape — and also how it is being eliminated — as it could not be otherwise, because it is correlated with economic dynamism — the whole system in fact, whether it is the general administration or what Sergas or other factors can be. In short, by the level of deficit, as well as by the level of debt, as by the level of expenditure rule, as well as by the average period of payment, we never value enough what it is to bring to all suppliers — large, medium and small, and even to many autonomous people who have this autonomous community, from which we are very happy — and to be at this moment in zero days of payment in December... That was a reflection I wanted to make with you, as I also wanted to make another reflection, which is what it has to do with the issue of taxation. I understand that sometimes it costs a lot, but it's relatively easy, if we stop in the dry, to consider that the income of the Union comes from two questions. It's growing the big income, which is the deliveries to accounts and the winding-up of the system, and there's only another part left, which can't grow, when we make a cut in October. And that is as a result of tax decisions that place you — in this case I am referring to Mr Lago — and to us in the times ahead. Because at one time, at the end of 2015, we made a tax option, and, as we were already beginning to power, and this had already changed, we chose to lower taxes, succession taxes. I don't know if you know that we were half a year old to present this tax to people when, unfortunately, a direct or not direct relative dies. Consequently, in 2016 there was not so much fall; the full fall took place in 2017, and thus in 2016, in successions, which has a great impact on income, it turns out that in tax terms it was 7 months, and the year 2017 was 12 full months. Please! That's just that it's relatively easy until you understand it, that there's always some case when it's growing all over. What I can tell you is that in 2017, according to our estimates, they're always very prudent, what we've increased was 30 million euros, and the vast majority of them are correlated because the thing is good, in medium terms. And from my words you will never be able to deduce that we rejoice that things are going well for everyone. But I do think it's going well even for those 98,141 people who have to do with the full year of ISD. I've often referred here to the fact that we don't value something as fashionable as our civil right, which allows those departures in life, those successor pacts that so much activation are producing on a micro level, as those 27,700 successor pacts can be. Or the ZPP, that some people are laughing too when we introduce it here, and it turns out last year that there were 1,011 beneficiaries in rural areas. We'll already bring this House data, too, because tax issues also allow us to move forward in other types of farms that have to do with where the movements are taking place and with what intensity. They are very striking, both in the geographic location and in the kind of land that is moving, and they will again dismantle certain myths that often bring their lordships to the House. What happens to them is that if only in 2017 we have those 115,000 beneficiaries -- as I was referring to a moment ago -- here we have a political problem, because if we add 115,000, who are grateful for a behavior, we will also have to think about something in more political terms. There was a reference — which I do not want to forget — by the representative of the Bloc, which was the only one who referred — and I thank him — to the issue of self-financing. We know that we're on the antipods one and the other, they've always recognized it, and I recognize it all the legitimacy of the world to be there, but allow me not to share it or much less, starting with the quantification of this mescinated type that they do, so, a little bit of riddles, with respect to the coupon. Let me not agree with that approach, but I am grateful that I had at least referred to this subject. This is about the few issues, I'm not going to say I'm worried, but they've taken care of me, as an advisor and, obviously, all the people who work in the Business Council, and the more people. I believe that the intervention of the Director-General for Planning and Budgets in committee was sufficiently broad, and finally what we were doing is to keep the word that the President also committed himself to in this House. But I think there are two things that I'm going to highlight from what moment of self-financing we're now. On the one hand, in a succinct way, I'm going to convey two questions. When we talk about vertical leveling, we always talk about resources and not instruments, which, by the way, is alienating, as you know, if they followed the subject, from the experts. When we talk about horizontal allocation, we're talking about the principle of equality. Is there anyone in this House who doesn't believe in the principle of equality, in which every citizen, every person, man or woman, have the same right in any part of Spain? I'd be very surprised to hear the opposite. When we bet on total leveling, regardless of the tax capacity of the territory, is there anyone in this House who is against it? When we say that on the basis of certain political uncertainties — and we all know that we are talking about Catalonia — we have clear the point of arrival and we have at the moment — so also my intervention — the financial margin sufficient to, without any kind of anxiety, start negotiating quietly, could anyone disagree? When in a manner always quieted, but in defense of our own self-esteem that we also try to transmit to them today, we establish certain alliances and relationships with autonomous communities, whether near or even some of a different political color, is anyone against? So if we're against this, which is the basics, the numbers you ask don't look at you as a result of the negotiation as such? And from there we could only win if we were able to, on the basis of what we have given ourselves, have almost a year ago agreed with the Socialist Party on the points we were in, and if we add more to the rest of the groups, give us a force as an autonomous community and a rest that will allow us to really get out of the fundamental question to which the Autonomous Community of Galicia is going to face in the next perhaps twelve, fifteen or twenty years. How hard is it to understand that question? So in my intervention, I didn't want to extend myself either to give a class; it's not my intention. I repeat again that the only way not to be wrong is not to do things, and this government has done many things, but he has done many things always with shyness and in an orderly and planned way. I know that some of you have a hard time recognizing that; as well as recognizing the important evolution that this modern Greek economy is having to do with what I was referring to, but always in my interventions I use a theme: inclusion. If we're not able to recover people who, within the scope of employment, or out of the scope of employment, don't notice and don't perceive this improvement, we'll be doing something wrong. That's what we're dedicated to, and any benchmarks used in this House about the year 2009, you fix it, you see it! because in real terms the thing is completely different. Thank you very much, and until soon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u75	Thank you, Counselor. Round of clarifications. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u76	We've been in the morning, so allow me, Mr. Martínez, to start with a little joke. Be assured that the Galego Nationalist Block is very concerned about the average period of payment and that we are glad that Galicia is in third position within the communities of common regime, but you will understand that I cannot help but mention that there are two other communities, not of common regime - you know perfectly what they are - that they are the first and the second. So anyway, that coupon formula isn't as bad as you say; so we're still convincing you, since you care so much about the average payment period. Perhaps, with an economic concert, we could still advance the Basque Country or Navarre. I'm going to finance. Thank you very much for bringing this debate to the House, because it is true that, if it hadn't been for the insistence of the nationalist group, it would be a little bit less, because you can't say the same about yourself. And I like you to mention our accounts even if it's a tone between comics and also contemptuous, but I don't know if you realize -- and I've told you several times -- that asymtonism in democracy that the Government group knows the accounts that the opposition group makes, but the opposition doesn't know the accounts that the government group makes on this issue, which is so absolutely relevant to our country. That's why we're back to the place where this report is being transmitted to us, which theoretically came up after the expert report and we have a more substantive debate. We say it the other day in committee and repeat it: we understand that there are certain issues which, logically, can interfere with the negotiation. We understand that there are certain issues that cannot be fully transparent, but between the absolute transparency and the absolute opacity that you practice there is a medium term, and there is the ability to make estimates and to have a more real debate than we had the other day; by the way, without even having a shift of clarifications like this, that we would have thanked, and that we regret that the Bureau of the 3rd Commission did not accept to do so. So let's put it back on whenever we want. Come and show yourself specifically, that we will continue to talk about this matter. By commenting on another, you were now talking about the goals of the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan, and you said that it will be evaluated — I hope with roles — in this plenary session of the Greek Parliament, but the truth is that the targets, although it is true that some are not fulfilling them, were not too ambitious. I remember that one of the goals of those ten mentioned was to reduce people at risk of severe poverty by 100,000 people in our country. We understand that this is an important goal, but absolutely insufficient, when social organizations estimate that there are more than 700,000 people in our country in that circumstance. So we're not going to comply with those partial targets, nor are they still failing to meet some of them like R & D+i investment or some other issues that we'll have occasion to evaluate. I would also like to comment on some questions about the labour market and continue to insist that for us, of course, we cannot talk about consolidation of recovery, as you have done here, and that is and will continue to be a concern of the nationalist group the consolidation of the precarious worker, which is bringing this exit from the recession and which, of course, does not correspond to our model of growth. He said the spokesperson of the People's Party that we were trilars for talking about temporary contracts and contemplating the transition of timeless and indefinite contracts. But I ask you, Mr. Voicer, if it's bigger since in 2009, because it's not, or is it? So I understand that we must not comply with those indefinite conversions that are now even smaller than in 2009. Perhaps, as Mr. Martínez says, we have to look at what to compare with 2009, because it seems that only when you do so, but you have to look at this as a social and labor scenario as a "accomplished recovery," because we fundamentally disagree with it. And I want to insist — as I have little time left, even though I leave some questions behind — on something that seems important to us from the nationalist group, which is that you are absolutely conforming to the financial restrictions framework imposed by the state. And, I insist, for us, this is a theft of self-government, because as much as this community is not theoretically involved because it did not resort to that FLA, as we have already debated repeatedly, that does not mean that it is not absolutely limited to our narrow—but itself— self-government because there is an obvious limitation as to the responsibilities and distribution of both debt and deficit, to which we add this model of absolutely insufficient funding. We will therefore continue to denounce that you intend to act in this country as mere government delegates. Having seen Mr. Feijó's statements yesterday any day we'll have to find out what you're going to be doing here asking for the dissolution of the Statute of Self-Government or what we're going to become a big deputation. And we don't agree with that model, because we demand for our country's most self-government capacity to manage our resources and write a different exit to that economic cycle, and not what they're showing us, this exit from the recession that hasn't just reached every and every one of the Greek homes and that consolidates a precarious situation with the alibi of the crisis that we, of course, have not bought or conformed to. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Counsellor, allow me to tell you that it is not right for me in this Parliament to address a Member, in this case my person, and to treat us in terms of papacy. I believe that my intervention — this and any other — may be wrong, I may be wrong, but I think I always treat with absolute respect to all the people who are in front of me, as I couldn't be in any other way. [[Applause]] In any case, you referred textually to compliance with the spending rule, and I textually tell you that Galicia failed to meet the expenditure rule in 2016, and so it is published by a report from the Ministry of Business and Public Service, no less. Counselor, we fully agree that it is good for you to come and that it is good for you to appear. We don't question the appearance or all the members of the Greek Government coming to talk to us, that we are for that, and for that they are, and therefore that is our work and is part of the parliamentary debate. What we don't understand -- I said one, two, but I can say it to infinite times -- is why at this moment and why without data, unless at the very best the data is still much worse, and so at that moment it doesn't seem like it happened to return to this Parliament. However, in view of your tone, which was quite shocking and I almost dare say that a little bit like dealing with us as little children — something you have quite referred to — does not seem to me to be the most suitable tone for this Parliament. And I'm going to tell you one thing, Counselor, won't you expect the opposition to come here with palm trees from the execution of the People's Party? Among other things, because I think with the data that we bring here, which are official data, data that is published, and which therefore endorses our words, you are not to put up with petards, you are not in such a good, absolutely good situation. [[Applause]] I'll continue to give you data on the execution of the Council of Galicia, its execution. I'm going to give you budget execution data, the data we have. Maybe you already have a lot more, but when we have all that data, we might have come here and we can rectify it or we can ratify it. At this point in time, the published data, which is for the third quarter of 2017, and on some very important themes that should be executed about 100 percent, is the fact that they are: job promotion and labour market institutions, you have no running in the third quarter of 2017, 75%; at home, 80% and in economic dynamization of the rural environment, in that rural legislation that you are tired of saying, 68% unexecuted; or in business development, 87% unexecuted. That's your data, your economic management data. So I don't think you're for so much presumption and so much somewhat shocking exposure; rather, it seems to me to be a rather disastrous balance. But, look, I'm going to follow you with the published data, the ones we have access to, the opposition groups. If we make a comparison in the 2017 budget management, in the whole autonomous communities, Galicia does not come out very well, and I say again: Ministry of Business and Public Service, November 2017 data — I just changed them because they went out today. Nor in this paragraph is the data very favourable: Chapter I, staff. It turns out that in 2016-2017, accumulated in November, Galicia increased by 0.47%, but for the whole autonomous communities, the increase was 2.30%; that is, five times higher than Galicia, having an equal volume of execution for both cases. And salary increases, Counselor, should be quite equal. So one out of two, or we have a much weaker management in staff or we should not cover the squares at the same rate as the rest of the state. I think there's one of your mistakes. Look, Counsellor, non-financial expenditure, in homogenous terms, Galicia is located in the lowest increases in all autonomous communities for the 2017 fiscal year, by November 2017. Galicia passed in October from -0.05 to, in November, a 0.32%. But the communities as a whole grow to 4%, Counsellor. In real investments, you used to comment that this debt was going to be for the investment. Man! yes, it may be to put it in the budget, but if the execution is not good it is of little value to be budgeted. See, the rate of change 2017-2016 accumulated in November in real investments: for Galicia increases by 5.52%...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u79	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u80	... whereas for the whole of autonomous communities, it's 6.51%; i.e. Galicia, 20% less. And the budget deficit, also in terms of homogenous, non-financial terms, for November: in Galicia, 0.64%, the triple that for the whole of all autonomous communities, which is 0.21% — official data published by the Ministry of Business. I can't go on because time doesn't give me any more, but I appreciate it coming back. We can keep contrasting this data. You can correct me, I may be wrong; I am totally willing to correct myself, but you show me with published and official data, not called papalatas. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u82	I'm a parrot, too. I'm not going to tell the whole speech, I just wanted to say two questions. First, Mr Puy's interventions are always stimulating. Today I've surpassed because a member of the People's Party tells a person in Marea about Franchise weaknesses... I'll tell you two things, I, because I'm old enough to do it: I was militant against franchiseism — some of them not — yes, or complicity — and I was a militant against labour reform... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Can you call a spokesperson for a parliamentary group without the president saying anything, and can a Member interrupt in that way?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u83	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u84	What are we talking about here?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u85	I'm sorry. Excuse me, Mr. Lago. I know how to distinguish -- and I'm going to stop the time -- in what way the counselor referred to that, and we all know -- yes, I used that myself in many debates I've had, because I'm referring to the papalism that is to be quiet, nothing more. That's what I understood, and I think that's what the counselor wanted to say. That's why I, well, know how far the debate can go. This wasn't an insult.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u86	Time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u87	He'll be compensated, don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u88	Well, and also as a union activist, I fought against labour reform...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u89	Quiet. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u90	... against the labour reforms that have introduced the abusive and absurd precarious work in our country since 1984. But I'm not going to talk about it, I'm going to talk about Mr. Counselor, because today I'm amazed, of course! How can the counselor come here and say that we can't have a debate with numbers and say that we're not going to debate numbers or numbers and why do I ask you about numbers and numbers? Counselor, I didn't ask you a number, I said: choose you, of everything I'm telling you, one that's not true. Counsellor, if you went up to this House — you said it with the greatest seriousness you can, because I hope it will serve for the future — if you went up this rostrum, where the sovereignty of the people of Greece resides, and instead of making bad jokes, of making gross disqualifications, of talking about the Greek economy, of data from Galicia, we would all go out and win, and you're the first one. I think you have a difficulty doing it, because you have difficulty understanding numbers. I'll give you two. One, you don't understand that from the IPC. The average CPI of 2017 — Galicia, IGE — is 2.1%, so the rates to Audasa were 1.9%, because it is the annual average. The second data, Counselor, because you used that idea of what happened to the tax of successions and prayers. I have Montoro's report here. Do you know what the report says? Because in Galicia from January to October -- because, Counsellor, it's not the date of October, it's the accumulated data from January to October -- the collection of that ISD tax increased by 1.74% and in the average of Spain by 1.65%. Man, there's no such thing as what you were talking about because it's the same thing. Counsellor, you cannot come to a debate in this House about the budgetary closure and how the budget is evolving, without having a given, without having a role. And I insist again on what I said at first. This report... do you know it? [[Mr. Lake Peñas shows a document.]] You know what he says? Do you know the figures of how staff spending evolves, spending on investment? You know him? Because, Counselor, it's not the October data, it's the data accumulated in ten months, and it can't happen that there's a huge deviation, for example, in staff costs, in the time we're missing. In this sense... finally, I'm going to relax a little bit, waiting for that to be noticed later. I'd like you to answer something that we're asking you about, and I'm going to say that there is, in fact, a Welsh way of fiscal consolidation. We do not deny that the autonomous community that reduces the deficit the most is the Galician, we do not deny it. What do we say? That the way to do it is to cut spending more than others; and the positive way would be to increase the income that would allow financing the economy and also to reduce the deficit. But you're making that way of Galician tax consolidation reduction. How? By reducing more than anyone's public spending. Welcome to the comedy club, Counsellor!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u91	Thank you, Mr. Lago. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a saying that says "counsels give that to me I don't have," and I remember now when listening to Mr. Lago again remove the issue of inflation and set as an example of last year's inflation on highways. You're also a stimulating challenge in the debates; then I went to see how you calculate the weight of the highways. The update on the price of motorways is a consequence — it is translating the Ministry's document into German — of applying the annual automatic review formula that the sector agreed with the Government 15 years ago in 2002. This is a formula that has between its variables the average IPC between the month of October of a year and the month of October of the following year and the evolution of traffic. Under this formula, the fees rose again in 2018 after the downs of 0.4 and 0.6 that were noted in 2017 and 2016 respectively and the freezing of 2015. I mean, nothing to do with inflation. You just said here again that inflation was 2.1. All right. Why? Because it's the beaches. No, it has nothing to do with it. The beaches are calculated differently. The annual inflation difference from December to December was 1.2. All right? That's what prices went up between the month of December and the month of December. The average you bring is a simple arithmetic average that does not take into account how much was consumed in each month and how it influenced the consumption of each percentage of inflation. But, well, I just thank you for allowing me to remember concepts and know the changes that the National Institute of Statistics makes, which is true that sometimes we all need to review. [[Applause]] It is true that the crisis has raised two questions: first, inequality, as a result of unemployment, and secondly, lower spending capacity by the public sector, which obviously also affects inequality in the supply capacity it has of public services. What's the situation in Galicia? In 2015 we had 8,381 million euros of non-financial expenditure and in 2018 it was 9,487; that is, they rose by 13.1%, and the average benchmark of autonomous communities when comparing the 2018 budget is 12.8%. I mean, we have more spending capacity, a 0.3%, which, if we take the interest out of chapter III, is 0.5%. By having more spending capacity, we can also — and I have a series — compare from 2015 to 2018, and in all communities they have made a social effort. In social Galicia increased its spending from 2015 to 2018, with that improvement of the economy that allowed more resources, 45.3%. The average of the other autonomous communities that approved the budget is 27.1%. In health care, 13.2% Galicia; 12.8% the rest of the communities. In education, 11.3% Galicia; 11.1% other communities. In capital expenditure, Galicia in 2015 spent 1,189 million euros, in 2018, 1,563, an increase of 31.4%, and the average of autonomous communities is 20%. In staff spending, the average of the autonomous communities is 11.5%; Galicia slightly below, 0.3, 11.2%, which is explained, among other things, by the decisions adopted here, debated, hard and difficult to freeze by some sections of the employees' salary, which are already recovered. So I think if you take this data and keep looking at financial expenditures, you will see that Galicia has reduced them in the same period by 49.5%; the average is 36.5% — poor management of public debt. Real investments: in Galicia, chapter VI rose by 26.3%; on the average of communities, by 16.5%. Capital transfers: Galicia, 38%; and the rest, 23%. Financial liabilities, the evolution of debt. We would have 4 billion more debt if we were in the middle of the autonomous communities. Evolvement of the average financial liabilities: Chapter IX, 27.3 % upwards, evolution in Galicia, -11%; i.e. below. So I think we're talking about a macroeconomic picture. And now comes the second part, which is to say that this doesn't affect people. I believe that at 60,000 people who have found a job and who, according to today's report, have a stable contract, have come back to them. Or we can also ask 53,000 people who have lost their jobs during the last year of the Bipartisan Government, and see if those people understand that the recovery is coming or not. We can also ask pensioners. Today the Socialist Group brings a bond, which it does not read, by the way, in 2010, when with 3% inflation the Socialist Government has totally frozen pensions. But we can also ask them if they want pensioners and compare the loss of purchasing power in recent years with other periods in the past. [[Protests.]] We can also ask, when the number of surgical operations is increased and when the health expenditure is overrun at 109.5, which makes other games not run — some of them have been mentioned here — if it is best to spend on health care, make credit changes in order to be able to care for more people who need public health or not. And so then we can go and see if, for example, with the help given to the workers, which increased by 163%, the recovery came to 105% of the increase in the working schools, and so on. Maybe there's a lot of people asking them directly, but Galicia is actually better. I want to finish, Mr. President, just saying one thing. Today he made a joke to the Block spokesperson talking about the convenience of being in the cupboard. I want to remember — because it is a recent report and I think it is appropriate to remember it to end this debate, at least by the People's Group — a reasonable historical period, 1987, entry into the common market, and not to rise to the growth rates of the sixties — it was you who brought them, not me. Sixty of us all know who ruled. Well, in the case of GDP per capita in Spain, in 1987, Galicia was 79% of Spain — not 79%! No 2016 we're not 90%. We're approaching 11 points. Not all autonomous communities did so, for example, Navarre, which stood at 126% and follows at 126%; it remains exactly the same, it didn't prosper in relation to the average. Others fell, for example, Balearics, who was at 140% and is now at 106%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u93	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u94	So autonomy in Galicia has worked; we are the third most converged community in terms of GDP/per capita since we entered the European Union. In the short term, it is clear that we gave it back to the economic situation, despite a negative inheritance, of negative liquidations, of 2,200 million, and of being the worst moment of job destruction, of economic evolution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u96	And the truth is that today, Counsellor, Galicia is strengthened, with a more open economy, with the best export cycle in history, which we continue to consolidate year by year, that we have a more productive economy and that, of course, we have great challenges ahead: more employment, more quality, with better wages, and a state of just welfare...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u98	...but we're going the right way. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u99	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Close the show, Mr. Landlord.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u100	Thank you very much again, Mr. President, for going to close on today. I apologize, first of all, for my tone, which may sometimes seem a little... but I think sometimes we have the skin a little too soft, don't we? It doesn't go with any intentions, please! It's a form of expression that's normal in me. People who know me already know that in no way is a kind of desauthorization to any intellectual power that this House or outside may be. In no way do I ever refer to myself in personal terms. Never to be interpreted, please, in personal terms, that they are not, they are not. What I'm trying to do is to highlight what we have in positive terms and what, as a society, I tell you, we give ourselves. I cannot therefore agree with the fundamental corollary that Mrs Presas had established in her second intervention — which had also advanced in the first — when she says that we are conformers to the institutional framework such, such as, and financial. No, allow me to nuance my words again from the first and second intervention. Not at all. Galicia, throughout this whole stage that goes from 2009 to the present moment, is of the few autonomous communities that can and has indeed exercised self-government. You can make decisions for yourself, even, as I said, to be wrong from time to time; even for that. So I can't match you with that leitmotiv so much from the Block, which is the outdated institutional and financial framework; in no way coincides with my position or with the Government I represent. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I repeat again: it is good to comply with the rules, of course, yes, we always defend him. But I think the concept of spending rule applied to the year 2006 is what allows the Autonomous Community of Galicia right now to have a slightly larger capacity than we would have with strict compliance, because 2015 was a special year. I think it's a question of size and understanding; without any kind of accuracy, I'm telling you. As well, when you refer to Chapter I, Galicia 0.47%, it seems to me that you said, and the rest, the two of them like something. The corollary you draw from these numbers is not correct, because there is a question that should be taken into account. In 2016 the Autonomous Community of Galicia proceeded to what? Paying the extra that the Central Government had taken away from us all the public employees in 2012, which was a size, of a size, of 175-180 million euros, while the specific supplement — which was what we recovered in that year — had a size of 150. If we take this into account and there are autonomous communities in which today — even Andalusia — public workers have not yet recovered the full amount of the 2012 extra, these types of crude comparisons cannot continue to be made. Like, Mr. Lago, you can't do it and you can't go to the specific data like that, smart enough, to see that there's a very serious difference in FDI, I'm going to repeat it, 7 months before 12 and so on in IRPF. And that's why I'm telling you that mathematics also has to learn them conceptually, it's not just putting the metric on it. And, by the way, arguing at this point that the IPC, already finished the year, was 1.2 is something I can't match again. But, well, not in professional tone, not in the tone of teaching anyone, what I want is to close my appearance by highlighting something where my second intervention began: Galicia's effort as society and collective triumph. I don't explain why we're tearing up our clothes so much if we're in front of what I think is a collective triumph, not just from the Government of Galicia, that we're supposed to be able to move forward today with economic and budgetary data as I've just reported to them. Because a few years ago, few would think that the Greek society had been able to bring back the economic situation with more difficulties in the history of autonomy, and that we had a lot to do with it. That's why Galicia and the Greeks are strengthened by past difficulties, not all overcome. We always work with humility by conveying this message, but we believe that on the right path, in order to consolidate an increasingly solid and inclusive economic recovery. Ladies and gentlemen, the progress I have just explained was not only data, good data, but this data is expected to improve on a day-to-day basis for the Galicians and the Greeks, because having balanced accounts, maintaining the solvency of the autonomous community year by year means of wealth and better services for citizens. These good data are encouraging and motivating for those we are public managers, but we are aware that much remains to be done. We want economic growth this year also to be robust and healthy, so that Galicia's solvency, which we've always tried to strengthen, to translate each year with greater intensity into more and better jobs, to higher wages, to more efficient public services and to greater facilities for businesses, especially for pemes and self-employed, into even more quality tourism, into a more competitive primary sector, into an environment, as has been mentioned earlier, more sustainable and in a more agile administration close to the citizen. We want to be allies and accomplices, from whom? From the Greeks and the Greeks, to help them meet their needs and expectations. Ladies and gentlemen, ever since prudence and humility, the indicators that have just ended confirm that we are in the best year since the economic crisis. In fact, the budgets that have just entered into force are the most expansive since almost a decade ago and they have to help these objectives. We are particularly pleased that today in Galicia we are growing at the highest rate in the last decade, we are re-created jobs in a sustained way, we support strong growth and the drop in unemployment with the practice of eliminating the public deficit and lowering the debt ratio for the first time in ten years. But I repeat, I insist, not only is it worthy of the Greek Government, who has helped everything he could, but a collective triumph of the Galician society, and for this year I repeat that we have accounts in which we can finally reconcile the reinforcement of social spending with a great impulse of productive investment. We framed this budget in the Strategic Plan Galicia 2015-2020, which is being very useful to conquer these positive indicators, because in most of them we are at the top of the target line. We'll follow this consensused roadmap and supported by the largest experts in the autonomous community, to maintain what's giving good fruit and to review and strengthen those who have to be improved. For growth to be made more and more inclusive and integrate we have a great strength and a scenario of institutional and economic stability; we will make the most of it for the benefit of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u101	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 16.15, four and a.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u102	We resume the session with item 2 of the agenda, which corresponds to the motions. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the environmental regeneration of the protected areas affected by forest fires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u103	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u104	Thank you, President. He's all right about the lights and he's there negotiating about the intensity, because if this House wasn't, when we arrived, it's more or less the same parade that are some of the protected areas in our autonomous community after the fires, the rain and the glove of the Government of Unity of Galicia. It keeps bothering a little, but well, here we are. When I began my interpellation in December, I spoke of height of sight and broad vision when it came to regeneration of protected areas. This broad vision does not have it by the Government, and so we told the advisor, and he has it by the ecologicalist organization of the Galician Natural History Society, who said and who continues to maintain that public administrations have an absolute disinterest in the natural spaces and natural heritage of Galicia. The counselor denied it, said it wasn't true, but eventually time ran out of lies. Ecological organizations in general bother this government so much that in the fire commission itself created in this Parliament it vetoed all environmental organizations so that they can attend as appearances, as well as the president of the Galician Natural History Society, perhaps because the Government is upset to say that there is an absolute disinterest on the part of the Government in relation to protected areas and spaces. And that's what the adviser in the interrogation gave four figures and said that 23.4% of the burned-out was Nature Network, that 7% of the reserve of Burned Anchors, which in total were 11,400 hectares burned out of protected area, and that she alone occupied especially 6,630 in the natural park of the Limia, in the Jurés greenhouse, and in Ancares-Courel. Of the others nearly 5,000 said it was the Rural Middle Council that specifically took care of them. She said she was worried about the flora and fauna of those 6,630 hectares, and she said -- we don't know very well why -- that she thought the fauna had escaped to other areas that didn't burn. It's hard to escape if you're on the 1,000 acres, on the 5,000 you're probably staying around that dead fauna. We asked him what is being done to recover the fauna and flora that existed before the fires, and he didn't answer us. The advisor said — and that is true — that much of the surface that was burned at that time is on high terrain with a lot of slope, and that that's why they were concerned is the drag from the ground to the rivers, to be able to limit the runoffs and to get back to the affected areas. We asked him what the results of his work were, what his measures were, but we had no answer. We asked where the pits and channels were cleared, also the drains, we didn't have an answer either. And since there was no kind of response, we asked those comrades and comrades who are not only in protected areas, but also in some of these areas not specifically protected, but yes in LIC areas, like Avia's Carballeda, who was one of the places especially punished by fire, or The Snows, to answer these questions that the counselor herself was unable to answer. And precisely because of this lack of answers, what we ask the Government today for in this motion is, firstly, to draw before the end of this first quarter of the year 2018 a special urgent environmental regeneration plan for fire-affected areas. Secondly, to have that plan with sufficient economic memory, in detail, indicating the investments and the time frame for each of the measures and actions it has planned. Third, to restore the basic service supplies affected by the wave of fires. Fourthly, that there is a report every two months on the possible disappearances of land by trawling — indeed, the advisor said it was one of the issues that she was particularly concerned about — to avoid pollution of aquifers and then, finally, of rivers and rivers. Fifth, a monitoring and evaluation device is activated for this possible land drag. As stated at the outset, the Galician Natural History Society spoke of absolute disinteresting in the natural spaces and protected heritage of Galicia. Ecological groups have also denounced the Government's absolute passivity in the face of the possible catastrophe that could come after the fires of the October fire wave. It's true that the October fires ended when it started raining, with that intense rain we had, but then it began to rain seriously and so on, with rain. Ecological collectives, premonitionally, said it was possible that there would be a catastrophe for the rivers and for the springs as a result of torrential rains. I told you here, and I suppose we've all seen through social networks these water images falling over rocks, because there's nothing but stone after fire. This was an ecological premonition, and how it may be that the Government does not heed the ecologists in any case, because this premonition was true. That's how it happened. Frightened storms for not doing protective work; torrential waters that rushed to the rivers and springs. The springs of water for the populations are usually in the mountains, and from there the reservoirs of the neighboring waters are nourished. There was no work to prevent erosion, no protection for infrastructures, no approval of special hydrological restoration plans, lack of drinking water so that neighbours can drink while they are being given — or are waiting to receive — these money promised especially, in the first person, by the President of the Board to repair the damage caused by the fires. It would be nice if the Environment Adviser asked the neighbours of Avia Carballeda and those of the Snow specifically. And in relation to them I want to do right now, because it's obliged, a part. First of all, because it is not guaranteed that the water they are drinking is drinking water, precisely because as a result first of the fires, and after the torrential rains, the water that came down from the mountains affected the reservoirs. For example, in Carballeda de Avia, I was told by her mayor, a couple of days ago, that they drink mineral water because they can't drink running water, and that this mineral water is bottled by the Cabreiroá company, which gives them the bottles because otherwise they couldn't drink. I know you can't do any publicity here, but in this case I think it's essential. I'm also going to advertise the College of Pharmaceuticals of Ourense, which freely makes samples and analytics about the waters, about whether they can drink or not. They're 10 or 12 samples each week, and the College of Pharmaceuticals has decided to do these samples for free, these analytics, because the U.S. Deputies collect each of the analysts they do. So they now live with the solidarity of several companies and other kinds of institutions, which are not the administrations that are precisely governed by the People's Party. And it's also obliged to make a separate one because, today, the Government has not poured out a single penny of the aid for material damage that it promised the neighbors and the municipalities as a result of the fires and after the rains. There are, according to the media, government officials, EUR 1.5 million for the repair of these damages. Only personal damage has been paid, but material damage has not yet been paid. It's been three months and there's no information, no response. In the Snows there are about 150 files waiting, and in Avia's Carballeda another 150 files waiting, more or less, for the Government to give some information. That's right. Steps by the Middle Rural Counsellor on his day, photos, helicopters to scaffold, and that mullching spread across the territory, that's what there is. And if this happens in places that are inhabited, in places where there are people who can talk, and therefore they can tell what's happening to the media, what's going to happen on these 6,630 acres on the Lower Jurés Hill, and in Ancares-Courel, where there are virtually no people, there are animals, there are stones, there are trees, which obviously do not speak and cannot count that this regeneration of the protected spaces in Galicia does not exist or interest the officials of the Government of Mr. Núñez Feijóo. Let us hope that you will vote in favour of our initiative because we consider it essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. They were more than 50,000 hectares burned at that weekend in hell; 50,000 hectares would have to add to the other burnouts throughout the year; and so year after year, in an unfinished symphony of disincentives. Because what burns is not wood or mortar, eucalyptus or oaks, castles or fries, what burns is territory, that part of us who lives in us and us in it. And when territory burns, every cubic decimetre of land that deteriorates is the future that steals us and is past that will never return. And in this there's both protected and unprotected space: it burns down territory. But of course, protected space is socially regarded as strategic territory with special value, and hence the figure. And when the flora dies from us, the fauna dies from us, the life of us, of all of us, the soil remains without protection and the reward of the trawlers and the heroic agents, naked and defenseless. And those small and large aquifers, crops, trails and roads, drain cages, betrayed by water, and contaminating marine crops, lie in the riverbeds and suck up life. And fire after fire, the soil loses its size and its generation capacity. In the midst of so much death and so much sorrow there is only one triumphant, one who favors the fire, an intruder who uses the fire as a living agent, a plague which, through the fire, has been spread throughout our territory in the last forty years: the eucalyptus. If fires are a matter of every year, where are the protocols of immediate action? Does the conditions in which the burnt soil remains vary every year? If the mayor of an affected county wants to act immediately, before the rubbers that multiply erosion come, do you have to go to Wikipedia to search for protocols? Because on January 22, three months from the disaster, in the communities of Ponte Caldelas and in the Val Miñor, nothing knows of the branch councils or possible protocols to avoid erosion. Quitting Wikipedia. The questions are there, what was done to prevent drags on the burned surfaces with strong pendants? How were aquifers and rivers protected from the overcrowdings with the ashes? Have the zero areas recovered the basic and vital infrastructures for the social life of these times? Where are the fire protection plans in protected spaces, which by law should be working? Where are the regenerating plans that contemplate the Mountain Law, so often mocked by this Administration? Thousands of metric tons of ash or burned wood dragged by the force of the water. How and who will make the removal of the asbestos from the creeks from the Neves fire, and valued from the bottom for €150,000? Because the health of the population must also be protected space. Who's going to run the cost of replenishment of roads damaged by the erosion of the drag and the undue actions, in undue time, and valued at EUR 270,000? I'm talking about the Snows, but there's also plenty of similar cases in the territory ahead, although it's not so serious about the intensity. Strong sums of money spent on straw and helicopters. Anna took a lot of it to the river ditches. Tragsa and subcontracts. Once again the shadow of the fire business appears. We don't invent it, it's there, people in the affected areas visualize it. An emergency plan that ended on December 31st, giving way to an emergency plan that is in force. The first one ate about 400,000 euros, and the second one will eat around 800,000. We're talking to you about the Ancares and Courel reservation. What do we know about the autochthonous flora and fauna regeneration? The fauna fled to the surrounding areas, said the counselor, and it was already said here. BNG is going to support this motion, and we're not going to go from technicians giving magic recipes, that if, in 2006, the problem was approached with political decision and imagination, the capacity of which you lack, because you politically spare propaganda and silences, silences so that the population doesn't know of reality, silences paid or almonds, and propaganda the glaze, subtle and craftily used, paid also with public money, with money from all of us, who feel twice as much affected: when we burn and when they burn. And while civil society civilizedly programs concerts to raise funds, volunteering on the mountain in regeneration seeks solutions on its own, once again!, showing the sensitivity and the load done work on recovery that the Administration doesn't want or know how to address.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u107	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u108	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mrs Vilán, you are an optimist, and you are asking at point 1 of your motion that the Galician Union shall design, to complete its application before the end of the first quarter of 2018, an urgent environmental regeneration plan of the protected areas affected by forest fires, including measures and actions to combat erosion processes, to recover affected habitats and to stop reinvigorating endangered and native species of flora and fauna. There's about a month left for them to start working on the Galician Union brigades, the decontinuous ones. A month or so remains so that the fires of spring may unfortunately return to our mountains. Let's remember that last year, between March and April, we saw an unstoppable escalation of the acres burned at Galicia, over 10,000. If one month after the fires return, none of President Feijó's 30 magic measures have yet been activated. With the fires at the door, do you expect the People's Party to support this motion? I wish you were wrong! We are going to support it, of course, because our mountains need these actions and because the People's Party has so far done nothing to prevent the disaster that from various groups and political organizations we warned you would happen. It requests in point 2 to provide sufficient economic memory of the plan, detailing the investments and execution times of the plan for each of the measures and actions envisaged. I hope I'm wrong again, but eight gives me that they won't approve it, after that in Marea and all the opposition groups in this Parliament we tabled amendments in the budgets in this sense and they were all rejected by the People's Party! Point 4, report it to all the municipalities concerned, drawing up a bi-monthly report on the possible disappearances of trawling soils in the areas of major pendant and pollution of aquifers, rivers and streams. Most of the municipalities affected by forest fires, and now by drags, which are not of dark blue on the map of Galicia are still waiting, today, for a call from the political leaders of this country to be interested in how their villages and mountains are after such a disaster. In Marea he asked at the plenary session on December 20th last year whether Galician Union was analyzing different elements in the waters and sediments of the areas affected by the recent wave of forest fires. The Counselor didn't answer. In the Committee on Agriculture, Food, Gandery and Mountains on November 10, Marea brought a non-legislative proposal on the development by the Greek Government of action protocols for forest fire-burning areas and the creation of the Bank of native seeds for its implementation, in order to limit the risk of erosion. The People's Party voted against, I hope you correct today! Now, the fire business is closing its cycle, the interests of the People's Party. Here's an image two weeks ago, two pictures of powdered straw alpacas in the Courel Mountain. And here we have a picture of yesterday, in the same parish of the Courel, the same straw spread in a plain area, a completely plain area, and with heavy machinery, which is something totally unadvisable for the newly burned lands, something unadvisable from different associations, while the stream of this same parish is totally low full of ashes for not acting on the board of Galicia where it was to be done. Then the advisor will come here and tell us the money they've been dedicated to clearing this damage, which means he's not going to report the results they've had. Money can be spent, for that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it's better not to waste them. You stay at home, that sometimes the result is the same, or often even better. Let it be advised by the scientific world, by the university, biologists, forest fire researchers, mountain owners, environmentalists, etc. They urgently implement actions that minimize the damage produced, ecological, economic and social. There is an urgent need to carry forward work that prevents erosion and ash trawls from being carried out to aquifers and river courses. Regeneration and recovery of affected ecosystems is vital for the country's survival, and sincerity is a basic principle for solving the evasiveness that you may have committed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u109	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Balseiros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, Mrs Vilan, it is easy to see how you — the opposition groups — try to take advantage of as much action as possible as they think they can provide political revenues. That's what they did with the fires of October last year, seeking by all means to try to wear off the Government of the Union, something really difficult, taking into account the immediacy and effectiveness in the action of the entire Government. By the way, in the People's Group we had hope, of course, that you would start your speeches by apologizing to the Director General of Forest Management for calling it corrupt on repeated occasions... it is collected in every medium, in a case that was finally filed. [[Applause]] There's no better example of the opposition than the cold, blinded by the only ambition of attacking the Government of the Union and the People's Group. But when you do the right thing, the technically advised, the socially accurate and the economically necessary, you don't have to be afraid of the criticisms concerned, and much less of the political valuations you've been asked or manipulated. They're late, as always, for their initiatives, opposition lords. No one has ever done or done what he has done and is doing the current Government of the Union, so we will not tire of repeating as many times as it takes all those measures and actions that have been taken and are being carried out, from the first moment of the fires and until now, with the measures that have been technically diminated and with the political and economic decisions that have been adopted and put into practice to give full coverage to all these, major and complementary actions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Environmental Council, after the fire strike, and in coordination with the Rural Council, acted immediately in the two protected natural spaces affected by the fires: the natural park of the Lower Limia-Serre du Jurés and the special area of conservation Anchores-Courel. After the initial evaluation, and following the indications of the Lourizán Forest Research Centre, the previous actions were carried out by placing barriers, filters and stacking of straw — this ball — in the most risk areas, in addition to proceeding with the removal of burned wood and cleaning of shells. The actions of the Yellow Government following the fires in October were the first of all characterized by coordination, which we believe is essential; a coordination that was even praised not only in Galicia, but throughout the state and even in the European Union, just at the same time as the fires were being produced. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, immediately after last year's fires, and always under technical prescription — and this is important under technical prescription — the Rural Council convenes the first meeting of the coordination table, where 40 representatives of different experts and technicians of recognized prestige participate. And in this forum it was where the fires and the actions that were to be carried out were evaluated. Much of the affected surface in these two protected spaces is found on high mountain terrains, on high slope lands. So these works that are being carried out by counseling have as their most important purpose, which is to avoid dragging the ground into the rivers. These actions — which are also being coordinated by the Lourizán Research Centre — have three different axes, which are the ones affecting the Environment Council. First of all, measures to stabilize the floor and limit the runoffs through a blanket of organic coconut blankets and cereal straw. In some cases it is also done with the technique known as Mulching, from helicopters. Sediments are also being retained, for which biodegradable mesh barriers were built, coconut, straw and forest biomass in those areas that were prioritized by technicians. Finally, measures to achieve re-connection of affected areas through the manual seeding on land at risk of destabilization and even hydrosement in areas of special sensitivity. For its part, and with regard to soil regeneration, the Rural Middle Council has so far carried out performances in 32 municipalities: 18,200 square meters of cleaning and dew, 11,800 metres of linear filter barriers and strips, 83,000 meters of repair of seams, runways and roads, 454 hectares of straw coat, in addition to the withdrawal and shredding of burned wood on more than 38 hectares. Mrs. Vilan, you ask for an economic memory, when the data is public: 7 million of the Rural Council, 2.1 of the Environment Council and 4 of the Ministry. There's the memory, more than 13 million euros. You see, ladies, it's rained, it's been a while, there's been storms and there's been no riots, there's been no damage to the beds, neither to the creeks nor to the seafood banks. In short, there was nothing you wished for. What was immediately in the proceedings; what was in the strict assessment of the allocations; what was in fact a technical coordination for the implementation of the proposed actions. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u112	What if there was a sufficient and comprehensive economic envelope; what if there was and there is timely information; and finally, what if there is a continuous performance and a permanent monitoring and evaluation device. No way, ladies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u113	Thank you, Mr. Basketballs. Author group of the motion, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u114	Thank you, President. The first is to thank the BNG and En Marea parliamentary groups for supporting our motion. The truth is that I closed my eyes and seemed to listen to the Environmental Counsellor in December, because curiously his speech was literally — and I literally say — what she told us here on the day she came to intervene and who came to respond to the inquiry. I don't think you'd like to introduce yourself to the mayor of Coruña as a candidate, but, of course, if one closed his eyes, he was reading what the environmental advisor said on his day. [[Applause]] We haven't come here to extract political revenues. I don't know if you remember that phrase: "I don't have dead behind my back." That's a political debt. [[Applause]] And that phrase never came out of that side. You know who's responsible. Just like the use of food with Spanish shoes and Chinese pants. Maybe the political bills...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u115	Quiet, quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u116	This, besides, Mr. Balsairos, is nothing new. We are Spain's most scourged autonomous community by fires. And you've been ruling for almost thirty years. That means... that means -- before you answer me, because I'm not asking you, while you spoke I was there quiet -- that's not something new. That there are fires in Galicia is not something new; that it rains afterwards on fires is not something new; and that you, in those thirty-one years, did not give immediate help and were effective in your management, unfortunately, unfortunately, it is not new either. When it was the fires, it was the environmental organizations that went out on social networks and told people that they didn't climb the mountains after they were burned because, actually, as En Marea's spokesman said, they shouldn't walk the burned floors. You don't throw straw immediately, you don't replant, you don't go with seeds because you can't. That was the ecological organizations, the environmental advisor was not. By the way, they didn't see her either in the Serra do Jurés or anywhere in the Ancares. She was probably the rural councillor one day; the environment counselor was not even once, because it may be that Coruña is easier to walk than the Ancares and the Sierra du Jurés. [[Applause]] And now, six months later... that's not why I'm optimistic, that's what adopting this urgent plan before the end of March means that, since the fires were in October, you were six months old, you have six months in total, to approve an urgent plan. Where are you? Because the truth is, you have to be a little ashamed to come here and say that no aquifers or springs are affected. Talk to me, call me. When we get out of here I give him the phone from the mayor of Carballeda de Avia, talk to him and ask him why Cabreiro will, who is a company and who is supposed to live from the economic benefits of selling his water, is freely giving water to the neighbors. It's because they can't get the water out of where they had it naturally because they're affected by aquifers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the recovery of the working conditions of the personnel of the autonomic public sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u118	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u119	Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor to defend the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u120	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. At the last plenary session of 19 December, precisely on the occasion of the debate on budgets for this year 2018, we called on Mr. Conseilante de Fanda and also the Public Service, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, about the forecasts of the Government of Greece to recover the labour rights of self-employed public employees in the current scenario of macroeconomic recovery in terms of GDP. We also reminded you, once again, as with the own and pointed out by Law 1/2012, the Government of Greece applied to more than 85,000 self-employed, civil servants and workers, the cuts so often reported and so many times ignored by the Government of Greece, taking forward what I have said — as I have already said in that debate, taking the words of some trade union organization — a controlled flight of collective bargaining in the area of the autonomous administration. The very efficient Government of Greece, during the years 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 — we will not get tired and I will not tire of repeating it — additionally imposed a salary cut for all self-employed and self-employed public employees who amounted to an average of that 5% per year in extraordinary wages, in that specific supplement or equivalent concept, which meant an average cumulative deduction of 14 per cent to 75,000 public employees. A policy, as we have also pointed out, designed to premeditate public services, to change a state of well-being by a state of beneficence, facilitating new areas of privatization — yes, this word that sometimes bothers them — of absolute liberalization and of absolute individualization of social problems. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the new framework for macroeconomic forecasts of the 2018 budgets — as you have stressed again this morning, the Councillor of Business and Public Service — is that they intend to recover — as stated in his text — the quality of the public services systematically cut over all these years, demands, on the one hand, to recover all the rights and conditions of work. On the other hand, of course, the whole framework of labour relations and collective bargaining in the field of self-employment. This is a key piece, absolutely key, to reactivating the social policies and equality policies of our autonomous community. And we reiterate once again, the behavior of the real gross domestic product in Galicia during the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 had positive magnitudes: 0, 7, 3, 2, 3, 4 and 3.1 in 2017, as also this morning reminded us of the advisor to Fairy. And the primary savings, as you know, that difference between current income and current expenses discounted the interest-debt expenses, is also throwing positive magnitudes in these last three exercises. From the 204 million positive primary savings in 2015 to 449 2016. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's and Government's Party, if these were the two conditions of Law 1/2012, which gave those two years of review to be able to overcome the temporary measures agreed in this nefarious law for autonomous public services, they no longer have any excuse for returning the cut rights to nearly 90,000 self-employed public employees. This morning we attended again the appearance of the councillor of Fairy and — I insist — of Public Service in a kind of macroeconomic autoloa, and again insisted on how the basic data of deficit, debt, expenditure rule, of PMP (media payment periods) were in a positive position in Galicia. We are pleased that the macroeconomic scenario is positive, but I suppose that the targets of deficit, debt, spending rule and average payment period are not an objective in itself, but are precisely an instrument for managing public resources not only on the side of expenditure, but on the side of income. A few days ago a newspaper published a page that I think summarizes in a more than correct way, because it's a summary of many analysts and many economists, which is currently happening in Galicia. They were telling us how the economy grows and how employment wanders. And this, of course, occurs in private employment and in the quality of private employment, but of course also in the quality of public employment. That is why since the Socialist Parliamentary Group, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and ladies of the People's Party, in this scenario of macro-economic recovery we have tabled this motion to substance the question put forward in the past full. And that's why we're asking for a number of measures, as they are, firstly, opening up an absolutely clear calendar and a formal opening of collective bargaining in the General Public Employees Bureau for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, which in turn contemplates a number of measures. Firstly, a topic with which we are working, but not sufficiently, such as establishing a public employment supply plan for the period 2018-2020 that allows for the recovery of stable public employment rates lost throughout the period from 2009 to 2017, also encouraging measures that seek to eliminate and overcome the replacement rates of troops. Secondly, a predictable timetable for the execution and completion of all processes — although so many times announced — of consolidation of temporary employment, of operation or of internal promotion. By the way, they meet once again the sectoral tables of education and justice to carry forward these commitments, as I say, which are often announced in this House but which are not yet bearing fruit. On the other hand, it is necessary to open this process of collective bargaining to review the scale of staff, and not to introduce reforms of the back-door staff scales in this House through the Budgets Act. We need to review the scales on safety and health at work, on forest firefighters, on clinic auxiliaries and other series of scales that are being unilaterally modified by the Galician Union. We also demand in this motion, in an absolutely priority way, the creation of a special fund for progressive recovery — with all the necessary progress, but recovery — of the accounts no longer perceived by Galician public employees in the years 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. We also consider it absolutely necessary to establish a process — because it is possible to establish a process — of ordinary invitation to tenders to avoid situations of provisionality as usual. And in a way I would say that symbolic or paradigmatic what we are claiming is the express derogation — I insist, the express derogation — of Law 1/2012, of temporary measures in the field of public employment, because although there are aspects of this law that are already incorporated into the ordinary legislation of public employment, and we know them — I say that they do not return me that ball, what we are asking with this derogation is precisely the recognition that this law must be repealed to, avoid the penalties of temporary disabilities, recover social action, recover the rights of working hours and prevent it from continuing the unilateral suspension of certain articles of the V Single Collective Labour Convention, in a manner marked by Article 19, which is punishing so many and so many women, above all the centres ascribed to the Council for Social Policy. [[Applause]] As I say, the derogation from that law would indeed be proof that the German Government really wants to wager for the recovery of public services and therefore of public employment. Finally, we insist on establishing mechanisms to control the quality of public services, and that's why we advocate, once again, the creation of an observatory for assessing the quality of public services. We hope and trust — not without certain scepticism, of course — that on the part of the People's Group and therefore of the Government of Mr Feijóo if they support these measures to save, I say that not only public employment in Galicia, but the quality of the most basic public services. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u121	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u122	Good afternoon. As we have said on other occasions that this debate took place here, in particular nearly a year ago, the so-called crisis was actually an excuse, a pretext, for a gigantic theft, besides legalized, both income and rights, which affected the working class in particular. We also said that income is easier to recover than rights, and of course those are battles that must continue to be fought in society. Policing and seizure of income and labour and social rights to get him to pay for the crisis bill, mainly by bailing on the bank and other bills, to most of society and that has benefited the big businesses and the ones that have the most. The causes of this situation have to do with some consensus. Because, of course, it wasn't easy to impose all these kinds of unpopular measures and they were making great sacrifices for a large part of society. This involution, this ideological regression, was possible because there was a great agreement, a great consensus, not only in the Spanish State, but throughout the world and in Europe, around a series of legal changes that had their translation between 2010 and 2012 in the amendment to Article 135 of the Constitution and also in the adoption of Law 2/2012, of budgetary stability and financial sustainability. That was really the key to the vault, the legal framework, which it has sheltered, that it has allowed, all these wage and labor regressions. This — as we know — has had and continues to have dramatic consequences in broad sectors of society, and one of the consequences is precisely that impoverishment of the working class, also of the small and medium-sized company, of the autonomous and autonomous, as we see the multi-millionaire profit accounts of large companies growing. By the way, some of them, like the bank, rescued with public funds. And at the same time, this policy of rights was produced: collective bargaining, working days, hiring, lay-offs, unemployment benefit, which was adopted successively by different governments through different labour reforms. These changes, this regression, have had a particularly strong impact on public employment, on public administration staff, which were also the object of a campaign of destabilization and disqualification by governments -- and here in Galicia we have a good example of this -- which has also had an impact on the deterioration of the quality of services, the dismantling of public services and their privatization. In the case of staff, income losses which are estimated to exceed 25% on several routes, from the first wage reduction of 5%, approved by the Government of Mr. Zapatero, to all other revenue and salary seizures that have occurred over the following years. BNG then denounced these regressive measures, and today it continues to argue that there are agreements in the field of labour, in the field of wages, in the field of rights, to recover all those losses. First of all, what it has to do with the offer of public employment for the next few years, recovering the jobs removed and also eliminating the replacement rates. By the way, there have already been agreements in various forums, and also in the State Parliament, so that it can go back. There's a majority petition, I'd say almost unanimous, by the municipalities to eliminate this regressive measure. The progressive wage increase, which also returns to paid salaries, the recovery of paid labour and social rights, and in the case of employees, also the recovery of the rights abolished by Law 1/2012. BNG, of course, will support this Socialist Group proposal, but we also present an amendment that we ask them to look carefully and affectionately because we think that we must really change the framework, change the rules of play, and that goes by overriding that regressive legislation that was approved in the years 2010 and 2012, article 135 of the Constitution and the Budget Stability Act, that imposition of dogmas, which are the absolute priority of public policies in the face of the needs of most. We will therefore support the initiative and also call for the vote in favour of the amendment tabled by the BNG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u123	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u124	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that this initiative, the first initiative, this motion, of course I can apply it in the first person; that is why I feel legitimate in this case to talk about this subject. Of course, to show that we are going to support all the points of this motion because we consider it to be the fair, the ethical. Besides, as I say, I'm lucky to be able to speak of this initiative in the first person and with knowledge of cause. Of course, the People's Party, with the excuse of the crisis, has made us pay public employees their demos and their favors to the bank, their speculation, corruption and all their contracts with companies. They were the perfect scapegoat for public servants. And in order to cover the holes that existed, it was the fastest and easiest to hand over the wages and the situation of some stability that the public employees had, won the pulse, won by law and won constitutionally. It was the easy scapegoat and the easy decree to quickly collect the money that was needed to cover up other completely despicable mismanagements and practices. You, moreover, don't believe in the public, your model is private, and it was a perfect excuse also to be able to apply the free layoff, the precariousness, and then this envelope policy in exchange for contracts and rotating doors, but all of a sudden, that it is clear, all of a sudden. It is true that this attack on public employees has begun — or more than an attack, this way of solving problems quickly — with the Zapatero Government, but after attacking the Zapatero Government with total pride for wage reduction, you have come to overcome the fact that the Socialist Government has done so far, in the face of the stalemate of all public employees throughout the state and, of course, of Galicia. And above all, they had the uneasiness to try to put the mantra, to put the speech, that we were privileged, that we had too many privileges and that, of course, in a situation of so much crisis, in such a bad situation, that it was true, and that public employees, in addition, we empathized absolutely because in our families we lived it in the first person and we were lucky to have a stable income to also be able to stabilize families and help our families, it turns out that they came with that we were a privileged majority and that we had to close our shoulders. But of course, we, you touch your pockets and your privileges, no longer carry you so well. Besides, it was absolutely aberrant, that they applied it especially to milleurists. That is, it was a waste, a scandalous thing, some privileges that were not privileges, besides, that were rights. You don't know the difference between privilege and right. Privilege is what politicians have. You've pushed a lot of measures, and you're still keeping measures, which are privileges, and I'm not going to quote them because they already know them. Another thing is to rob and almost insult people who have earned rights, and then they had to defame to justify and impose their neoliberal model — repeat, precarious and private — in exchange for envelopes and rotating doors. They cut in wages, cut in social action programs, also penalized public employees who were getting sick. They had no idea how people were going to work. And besides, there were no major uprisings, for what was this attack, precisely because it empathized public employees with the situation of the country, with great responsibility. They came to penalize people who were getting sick, who were going to take care of windows, offices, with flus, falls and infections so they wouldn't leave places undiscovered, and also because the milleurists are causing them a problem that takes those days off. But they don't apply to themselves, to you, the story, which is very curious. And then the personal affairs, the famous Muscosos, they probably don't even know it was a compensation. Because they didn't raise wages, they gave themselves days off to compensate for non-wage increases. So they still frozen a right that was a wage compensation. So, as the Socialist Party's deputy has already explained very well, as everything goes so well, Spain goes on to marvel, Galicia no longer says, and you are the adalytes of the economy and economic recovery, they comply with their own law, which states that at the moment when the economy was recovered they had to cancel all these infamous measures and return the stolen, return the eliminated rights, return the money withdrawn to the public employees and be able to put an end to this campaign of discredit. That at least they can cure the damage done. They keep their own law and apply the story, instead of telling lies. To say that we work a lot, that the public servant is very good, that we are fundamental, that we don't need the People's Party to tell the officials. What they have to do is comply with the law and return what was stolen from them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u126	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. The Socialist Party motion calls for improvements to public employment, but we need to know, in any case, and within our capabilities, that we have been in Galicia for more than two years with a recovery of public employees' pay, and we have done it in most cases above the rest of the autonomous communities, because this community has a solvency, and thanks to that solvency, as soon as we have been empowered by the State Government, conditions have improved and they continue to improve. At all times we meet the criteria for making use of our autonomy and being the first community that started and completed the return of the extra payment approved by the Central Government in 2012. Besides, we've been forwarding a year about the expected recovery of the full surplus payments to the public employees in Greece, who have already been charging since January 1st last year. And in the past month of July, the retroactive increase of 1% of payroll increases in the payrolls of the public employees in Greece was approved with speed. And we want to go on like this, we want to continue on this path, improving the economic remuneration of the Greek public employees. We have doubts whether the Socialist Party wants to follow this path, because, Mr Villoslada, you are free in democracy, voted here, in this Parliament, against budgets that actually reserve EUR 84 million to raise the salary to public employees as soon as we have the legal capacity to do so. The Greek Government is doing everything in its hand to improve the wages of public employees, and I remind you that these 84 million euros are in those budgets that you and your entire group refused. He no longer talks, Mr. Villoslada, about trying to improve the number of public employees. It's clear that here we're rebating you, and the counselor himself, on many occasions, that there are more public employees now than before, which is why you look very skilful, but nuance, that what he asks is to talk about stable employment, improve stable employment rates. That is what we are, Mr Villoslada, and you must know that on 18 October 2017 the agreement between the Galician Union and trade union organizations was signed to develop a plan for stability in the use of public services. And be sure that the Galician board administration, as it has been doing in the last few years, will offer as many seats as are allowed by the replenishment rate, and will therefore hasten to reduce the temporality rate to 7%. It must be borne in mind that in Spain the interintensity varies between 30% of health and 25% of the Administration of Justice. In Galicia we are at 14% or so, and we aspire not to 8% anymore, which is what the Government of the State aspires to, but to 7%, and we want to count on opposition groups for that work. On the other hand, you're asking for a derogation from Law 1/2012, which here has been drawn from things that I don't know if who says so is aware of the things you're saying, like it was stolen from public officials. Precisely Law 1/2012 was what you tried to guarantee was the sustainability and maintenance of public services, and that was achieved. In fact, there are now better economic and macroeconomic numbers, and that's why we can improve the conditions of public employees. But this law was precisely the guarantee that public services could be maintained. Mr. Villoslada, you ask for a derogation from the law, but you have already asked for a derogation from all the law except articles 4 and 7. I think something has been rectified, we're good. But this law, which has eight measures — you do what things are! — of the eight measures regulated by this law, three are already regulated by the basic regulations of the State, two are exceeded in practice and the other three are rectified PSOE and no longer wants to repeal them. If we continue like this, Mr. Villoslada, you will end up embracing this law and asking that it never be overthrown. So I think we are not going to support this proposal because the work being done is being seen and the improvements are patent. As I told you, things are getting better and we're seeing it. Even today the advisor commented that thanks to these measures, to those efforts that were demanded at the time, today we were able to close the 2017 exercise, the advance of liquidation, with a 0.21% deficit, i.e. less than 0.60% that was marked for Galicia. The debt has fallen too, therefore, Galicia's economic conditions are better, which ratifys that the effort made with that law was necessary, and thanks to that today we are in better conditions than then. You didn't help this government, you didn't help Galicia, and now that the stage improves and it's shown that all those measures were necessary and that thanks to them today we can cope with the improvements in public employment, you intend to stand up as defenders of public employees, when it was precisely you who cut the wages of public employees forever, Mr. Villoslada. His party was what cut the salary of public employees, it wasn't the People's Party. And the Greeks, who are very intelligent, knew how to choose who to trust, President Feijóo. Today the data evaluates President Feijóo's management, and they will continue to improve this data. But it's not by chance, Mr. Villoslada, but because things were done right and because the measures that had to be taken were tough, but always thinking about ensuring the sustainability of public services and public employment. The Greek people are never wrong, Mr. Villoslada. Here I also heard words like a cop, I steal... look, the policy and the theft that took place in Galicia was what was found at the Galician Summit when the People's Party Government arrived, which found out that the money that had been targeted in the budgets, actually, in practice, was EUR 2 billion less. That was a policeman who today continues to pay all the Greeks, Mr. Bará. [[Applause]] For my part, nothing more and thank you very much. We are not going to accept and support this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Moreira. Author group of the motion, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u128	Mr. President, thank you. I didn't expect another position from the People's Party, Mr. Moreira. Well, I think I'm telling the 85,000 public employees that Galicia has been the Autonomous Community that has recovered most of the pay in public employment seems to me to be an exercise of cynicism difficult to present in the House. The return of the 2012 extra payment had to be returned by court. The 1% increase comes from state budgets. And we're not just talking about pay, we're talking about public rights, we're talking about collective bargaining. And really, when you do a review, Mr. Moreira, of the remaining aspects of the Law 1/2012 to be repealed, if it is already exceeded in macroeconomic terms, and other aspects are incorporated into ordinary legislation, I don't know what they expect to be able to overcome it and power to overthrow it. As I say, for us, and I believe that for the 85,000 public employees, for union representatives, the derogation from Law 1/2012 is precisely a symbol of the recovery of public services. You don't seem to need a lot of agreements. Today, Mr. Montoro tells us that even the increase in public employees' salaries may go out of the general state budgets. I don't know, I don't know what we play, gentlemen of the People's Party, with public services. But some data I gave on the other occasion and I think that we must insist on giving and repeating to the Greek society, to those Greeks and Greeks that you say you trust President Feijóo. It may be that yes, I don't doubt it, depending on previous election results; we'll see in the future, in the medium future and in the immediate future even. But there's data there, as you've remembered: The timeliness in public health in Galicia is above 20%. Galicia was the fifth Autonomous Community in public employment destruction in the five-year period from 2010 to 2015, 5%, compared with the state average of 3.7%. And with EPA data, 25% of public sector timeliness across Galicia. But there is a more worrying fact that also gave you on the previous occasion, which I believe is that it responds to the fundamental philosophy of these policies, such as the transvasion of occupation between the public and the private sector, in terms, for example, in the fields of education, from public to private, and from public to health to private. It's data they know; it's data they know the fall of teachers in Galicia, they know the fall of R & D troops working in Galicia and they know the fall of staff in the service of local authorities. The data... is that even today in the epicenter of financial neocapitalism that is gathering in Davos is talking about inclusive growth rates. It was already remembered this morning how Spain is placed: at the end of that queue. That capitalist morale itself, which, once it strikes a lot, has to react to not getting into a social collision, is claiming a more egalitarian outcome of this crisis. And to finish, Mr President, I as a conclusion or as a final question would say whether the saturation of the hospital emergencies of these days, this winter, the saturation of appointments in primary care as well, or the likely malfunction of emergency operations in the October fires, the poor ratios of students in primary and secondary cities, the critical attention of the dependency situation, the systematic neglect of public employment services, the worrying fall of local police personnel we know, the protests of Justice personnel or even the precarious employment in the sector of private surveillance and security in Galicia are not the result of the social devaluation that the Government of Feijóo is subject to employment and autonomous public services. I think it's evidence that Galician citizenship will judge in the next electoral processes. But beyond electoral forecasts, what matters is the functioning of basic public services from day to day. As far as the amendment to the Galego Nationalist Block is concerned, even if we understand the frame it presents, we will not accept it because we understand that it overflows in a way that I think is not suitable for this motion for the framework that we are presenting. What we want is for the Galician Union, Mr Bará, to take the initiative to derogate precisely from Law 1/2012 and recover the collective negotiation of self-employment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u129	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. G.P. motion. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Marcos Cal Ogando and D. Luis Villares Naveira, on the protection of the environment and the Lindano
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u130	Motion of the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea. Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group have been tabled. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of her colleague Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, through her spokesman and in the light of Rule 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Additional amendment.After the resolution of the motion, two new points must be added:"6. Enable, before the end of the first quarter of this year 2018, a budgetary split including the necessary investment for the withdrawal and treatment of lindane in the affected areas.7. Immediately cover an alternative water supply for the Porriño neighbours, as long as the studies and reports mentioned above are not completed."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López, through his spokesman and in the light of Rule 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Amendment of amendment.The text of the motion should be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1. Finish as soon as possible the exploration and collection of samples that will begin in the next days on soils contaminated with lindane instead of Contrast.2. Once the results of the study are known and the contaminated areas are located, a decontamination project is carried out in collaboration with the Town Council in the first quarter of this year. This project will have to start running throughout 2018.3. Continue to adopt, in coordination and collaboration with the Porriño Council, the preventive measures necessary to avoid risks to people's health.4. To carry out a study of the presence of the lindane throughout the Porriño Town Hall, taking into account the proximity and collaboration of the affected neighbors.5. To address the State to request cooperation and economic support for the location and withdrawal of the lindane."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u131	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u132	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we bring this motion that comes out of the interpellation we made at the last plenary session. I'm going to make a little contextualization of the situation, because it's important to remember the severity of the problem we have with lindane contamination. Lindane is an element that the living beings accumulate with great ease, as it is likened both to ingestion and breathing, and even through the skin, in addition to that it is bioacumulative. So even low levels of lindane can be very detrimental to the continued exposure to this product, which is accumulated in the fat of the people and the animals, either they either come into direct contact with the product, or they either drink contaminated water or contaminated food, or the soil contaminated or watered with contaminated water, or even by eating some animal, because when passing through the trophic chain they can find it. As we've contaminated the Louro River, it's also contaminated by the beautiful Myo River, and we could have swallowed it through the fish that could be collected in this area. In 2015, the World Health Organization ratified that lindane could also cause cancerous tumors, including lindane in group 1 of cancer products. It is very important to note that lindane is a highly toxic product and that its effects, as they are bioaccumulative, increasing with the passage of time, pose an important danger to human health and the environment, and even are transmitted from mothers to children through breastfeeding. In the area of Torneiros, where there have been many years of living with this problem, there is an alarm for excessive cases, such as neighbouring, of cancer, leukemia, malformation of fetuses and renal insufficiency, which we believe should have a follow-up and complete study of this situation. In Galicia we had the bad fortune of having a lindane manufacturing industry for 17 years, the Zeltia factory in Porriño, between 1947 and 1964, and at this time it is estimated that they were generated and scattered around the area over a thousand tons of waste, which were then poured into the region. Because of its compacting condition — as we have already noted — these wastes were used as building material for roads and roads, as well as for filling them in various works, both of public and private work, extending the lindane throughout the region, thus exacerbating the problem and making it difficult — and the longer it goes even worse — its location for the consequent decontamination. In the recent work that took place in the place of Contrast, in Tournaments, in a work carried out by the Deputy of Pontevedra, of sanitation, lindane remains came out, which — the redundancy — brought to light a problem that has already come from far behind, which is more than fifty years old, and to which no administration has so far wished to face him in depth. During all this time there were no action in this regard, beyond the superficial measures taken by the Galician Junta in 1999, which relate to the pollution of the land of the aquifers that left behind the Zeltia factory, located in the Torneiros place, in the Porriño. I'm also going to do a chronological exhibition so that we can see where this problem comes from and what different performances have been taken so far, because some people are trying to focus on this as if it were a new problem. Even the adviser in the inquiry said that she found out in September, and this is a problem — as I say — that she is fifty years old, and there were different moments when this topic was in public debate. In 1992, there was contaminated land in the works of the highway of Mos. That's why it's very important for us that the map goes far beyond the municipality of Porriño, because there's clear evidence that outside the area of Porriño we're also going to meet the beautiful one. At that moment, the ANPA of the school of Sanguiñeda, in Mos, mobilizes itself so that the burial in front of it with land which also comes from these works of the highway withdraws and leads to a suitable place. In 1996, the mayor of the Porriño, the People's Party, said there was no problem for the neighbourhood in the Torneiros polygon, where the social housing is. In 1998, the Galician Union was mobilized. There is a commitment by the Board to eliminate 4,000 cubic metres. In 1999, when the works are done, the vicinity of the Torneros polygon, 2,500 people, calls for the expansion of the water studies, which have not been done. The neighbouring coordinator claims evidence that they believe there is no lindane in the homes and claims medical analyses of 400 people. All these performances were gone. And they also ask that the investigation be extended to Mos, which has not been done either. In 2000, the Torneiros neighborhood ensures that there is a beautiful one in Mos. And in 2001 the IGVS is committed to building new housing. And from there, nothing else was done at all. In 2005, there are times when this is discussed, in 2010 too, in 2012 and now in 2017. We have reports — as I spoke on the other day — of 2012, in which the Mine-Sil Hydrographic Confederation reports to the Environment Council on lindane pollution in the Mine River; we have the extract of that report. We have seen samples of the Hydrographic Confederation since 2010, where it has been indicated that there is pollution in various places in the groundwater by lindane, among them in the place of Torneiros, where they have now been found. By 2010, the administration had already recorded that these waters were contaminated, and nothing was done at all. And we have a press release from the Ministry of the Environment of a meeting that they made in the Porriño, indicating that soil contamination is very present for the manufacture of lindane in the Louro basin and in fishing and seafood in the coast of the Guard. The other day in the committee we adopted an initiative, which was a start in the area where this Lindan began to perform, which until today we have no news of any new performances or, at least, we have no information on them. And today we have an initiative that is intended to go further and, above all, expand this mapping area to find all areas that may be contaminated by Lindano. And we propose a map that goes beyond the municipality of the Porriño, and that it be done in collaboration with the neighborhood, which has information from where they can be found that it deposited Lindano, to carry out a rigorous study of the floor and the aquifers, covering all these detected areas. Once the results of the contaminated areas have been known, a decontamination project will be carried out in collaboration with the Porriño Town Hall, which is already being carried out this year. We also ask that the closeness of all these steps be kept informed. And finally, perform the relevant analyses to the neighborhood that resides in places where toxic waste is confirmed that exceed the maximum values, because there's a public health problem, but there's also a social alarm problem in that area. Neighborhood is worried because you don't know how this pollution is affecting her. And, therefore, we understand that this should be done as soon as possible by the tranquility of the neighbours and neighbours. We have a map of what was studied in 1999, and we have now—and I'm sorry I didn't put it on the same map—the area where it is now found. [[Mr. Cal Ogong shows the House a map in a leaflet.]] [[Mr. Cal Ogand shows the Chamber another map.]] It's a totally different area from the one that was studied in 1999, which realizes that the Lindane is in other areas that are not the areas where it had already been detected in 1999. Even reports from the Hydrographic Confederation already show us many areas that aren't here. Mr. Cal Ogong shows the House a map in a leaflet.) So this map should be done, as I say, as wide as possible. We can't settle for a partial and superficial act that covers the problem we have there. As long as there is pollution in the Louro River and the Mine River, we understand that we must not stop the work and that we must make an integral decontamination, and as wide as possible, that it reaches all the places where we have this problem. There are two ways to avoid the social alarm that exists in the Porriño: one is to hide the problem, and the other is to solve it. So, for our part, we will be working and defending at all times that the problem is solved in its entirety and in its entire dimension. We want the Galician Union to take on the dimension of this problem. We want a decontamination and a follow-up of the values of groundwater, land, the Louro River and the Mine River, until we have no pollution. At this moment, there are action starts; it has already announced the Galician Union that it is going to act on three roads, they are taking stock today, and it seems to us a good start. But -- as I say -- this has to make it much wider. I have the amendments and some compromise proposals that I will then refer to in my reply. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u133	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u134	Thank you, President. It looks like we're going to live a deja vu, we're talking again about contamination of aquifers, wells that people in Porriño have to drink, in this case for different reasons. On November 17, last year, on the page of the Environmental Council, it was said, "The Territorial Environment and Planning Council will develop a project for the cleaning and recovery of the soils affected by the presence of the chemical compound known as the "linden" in the parish of Contrast in Porriño." There were no dates, no talks. And then the advisor came to the middle of December to tell us that there was a preliminary study in progress, that it was already finished and that an investigation would be opened in January. Well, we're in January, and we don't know anymore. And the same advisor said that before the end of the first quarter of this year, on March 31, the project of withdrawal of lindane and treatment was to be completed. As the spokesman for En Marea well said, the Lindan is an insecticide that is tremendously harmful to the environment and, above all, also to human health. And we all knew ZZ, from Zeltia, who used to kill basically rats on his day; he was very well known. Zeltia was a tremendously known company in Porriño, opened in the 1940s and used the Lindano to make his famous ZZ. What was the problem besides the administration's lack of control? The wastes came out of Zeltia and Zeltia buried these wastes, and the neighbors used ZZ to compact the cement, to make their dwellings, and then also used to asphalt roads in the Town Hall of Porriño. Last year, the Council announced this project and the Health Council closed wells and sources in the affected area, took samples and said you couldn't drink. They could not be used for human consumption nor for irrigation the waters that were contaminated by lindane. It was a preventive measure, well taken, of course, and we agree that, indeed, it has been taken well. But from that moment on, he forgot about the existence of nineteen closed wells, twenty-one people with no water, and that if they have water, it's because the Porriño Town Hall is providing them with water. Of course, there was no interest on the part of the Galician Union from that moment on. When she came here the counselor seemed of her speech that the first possible communication of the appearance of Lindane in the Porriño had been on October 10. The curious thing is that the counselor himself seemed not to know that in the 1990s the Health Council had made a sweep on some people who lived in the Porriño, and had made a report on the possible presence of Lindane in the inhabitants of the Porriño, in human health, and had discarded that possibility by the samples he had taken. Since the fountains and wells were closed — as I said before — the Town Hall had to provide emergency water for the affected neighbours, deliver water to them, because there is a health, public health problem, and because these are basic needs that must be met. Porriño's own mayor told us that there's a family that has a member who is prevented from moving out of the house and that they can't even take a shower if it's not for the water tanks they're taking them there. It's not easy for that person to get out of this house because he has a lot of mobility problems. They're few people, but they're people who are tremendously affected and they don't have a chance to go anywhere else. What did the Council do? So that's about: go do and there'll be a future project where we'll say how to remove the Lindan and how to decontaminate. Nothing else. We are going to vote in favour of this initiative. This debate also came to the Committee on the Environment, but as without money it can always do, then we propose that a specific budgetary share be given up with a specific investment for the withdrawal of Lindan in the affected areas. And because we cannot bear all the responsibility of maintaining those 19 families, twenty-one people, who are waiting to receive water from the Town Hall, specifically only the Town Hall, so we also ask the proposed group to accept our point of immediate acceptance of covering an alternative supply for the Porriño neighbours while not finishing the studies and reports mentioned in the other five points, which this motion collects the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u136	And, for our part, nothing more and we hope they'll be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u138	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the Galician Parliament. This motion is the result of last interpellation last year, where the Environmental Adviser did a thorough analysis of what happened with regard to the manufacture of lindane half a century ago; also explained, I think, in detail, the preventive measures that were taken to ensure the health of the neighbors; and made a narrative of the measures that were taken and that were planned to be taken after the knowledge and analysis that we were having in those days. A month ago we also discussed the initiative of another group on this, the Galician Nationalist Block, and we reached an agreement and approved a transactional text that had the unanimous support of this chamber. In this agreement we request that the comprehensive study on soil contaminated with lindane should be completed as soon as possible. Once these study results are known and contaminated areas are located, a decontamination project of the affected areas should be carried out in collaboration with the Council; this project should be carried out throughout 2018. And continue to take preventive measures in coordination with the Porriño Council. And collaborate with the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation and the Porriño Town Hall to provide an alternative supply. These were the four points we approved a month ago, and my group maintains that support for that consensus. From there our amendment, which tries to better reflect the agreement reached a month ago. A comprehensive study is under way, which is being conducted with the collaboration of the neighbours and the Town Hall. And we still want this study to be completed as soon as possible, because this study is essential for the dimension of the performance to be known. And without the conclusions of this study, we don't know what measures to do or how much. Or said otherwise: this study will serve to draft the project for soil recovery and cleaning. This is the second step: once the results of the study are known and the contaminated areas are located, a decontamination project of the areas affected in the first quarter of this year will be carried out in collaboration with the Council, and that this project will also begin its execution throughout this year. With regard to the budgetary departure proposed by the Socialist Party of Galicia, we understand that it is difficult to quantify actions that are not yet defined or consensual. The most logical thing, from our point of view, is to do it with the data and conclusions of this study that is being done, which serves as the basis for drafting the project in collaboration with the Town Hall, and where the planning, organization and quantification of all the actions and measures necessary for the recovery of soils in the areas concerned will be, of course, the co-financing formula for these actions. Because we also want to achieve the state's collaboration and economic support for the location and withdrawal of the lindane. In the same way, we will continue to support the full cooperation and coordination of actions with the Council of Health and the Council of the Child, to carry out the study and the project, as I have already said, but also to continue to take the preventive measures necessary to avoid risks to the health of people and to extend the study of the presence of the lindane throughout the municipality and also to the neighbouring areas, taking into account the proximity and collaboration of the neighbours concerned. In relation to point 5 of his initiative, to carry out the analyses relevant to the neighborhood that resides in places where toxic waste is confirmed that exceed the maximum permitted values, we seem to be of common sense, but in what we disagree is what we each call "relevant analyticals." For us it will be those who consider it relevant to the protocol drawn up by the toxicologists of the Department of Public Health, precisely the Galician Health Service, and not what any of us can consider or arbitrarily decide or think is appropriate. We understand that there is a great Health Service in our community and that it will have to be those professionals who establish a protocol and that kind of measures that are the right ones. We understand that with your intervention and with what you explained that it might be possible for us to reach an agreement, and then we are pending your position on our amendment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u139	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u140	Good afternoon. We're talking about lindane, which is a highly toxic, persistent chemical residue, that is, it takes a long time to biodegradate, which is mobile and bioaccumulative in the trophic chain, and that this debate has emerged as a result of the casual discovery, within works promoted by the Town Council and the Deputation, in place of the district of Contrast, in the parish of Torneiros. I believe that in this question we have to evaluate two issues: on the one hand, the past, what has already happened, and on the other hand, the present and the future, that is, how we solve this problem. And in the past, of course, there are responsibilities, there are responsibilities to be assumed, and we understand that they are serious responsibilities, because we have been aware of this issue for decades. And then what we have to look for is that there is a maximum of information, transparency and participation so that the solution to this problem is definitely addressed. With respect to the past, there are remote responsibilities. Indeed, the first one responsible is Zeltia, which, in many ways, was a model and reference company, but he also did many bad things, among them, for the permission and convolence of the franchisor administration at that time, which allowed him to do these barbarities to use this toxic waste to make fillings and pavements. A true disincentive!, a barbarity! And there are, of course, recent responsibilities since the 1990s, essentially, of the board of Galicia and the Environmental Council, I would say more: of the Directorate-General of Environmental Quality, and also of the municipal government of Porriño, when he also had knowledge of the facts and did not act accordingly. And in this sense, we have to refer to this report, a 1999 study by the Directorate-General for Environmental Quality of the Environment Council, which identifies contaminated areas and potentially contaminated areas, and which has not been the subject of a deeper study and, above all, has not been the subject of measures to address this problem. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows the camera a document.]] And what seems to us, of course, to be absolutely alarming and worrying is that in 2012 we entered the Environmental Council, a report by the Hydrographic Confederation of Mine-Sil, which was also sent, by the way, to the Council of Health and the Town Hall of Porriño — so I also speak of the responsibility of the Porriño Council in 2012, governed by the People's Party — of what they have done in the past. A report demonstrating in a reliable way the existence of lindane pollution in several water courses, specifically in the Portelina stream, in the Tornerios stream, in the Laxas stream, in the Louro River, in a source in Contrast, on lands on the polydeportunity track, in the Farm Debugger, in the Agro Debugger, under the AP-9 motorway, in the football field and next to the land of Madeiras Iglesias. All this has been forgotten, it has been forgotten, it has not been taken into account by these administrations, and this is extremely serious. Because this subject had to be resolved a long time ago and we shouldn't be talking about this issue today, when there's a report as clear and as powerful as this one. That's why we say it's very serious, and that's why we say there has to be responsibilities. And someone should resign at the Environment Council and at the General Environmental Quality Directorate on this issue. Someone should apologize for this matter. This, without taking into account the administrative and judicial responsibilities that might exist on this issue. And, given and spoken of the past, it now plays a role in the present and towards the future. Of course, the BNG, as it has already done in the Committee on the Environment, where it has presented an initiative which has been unanimously supported — although the People's Party has tried to cut it, but these measures have been supported by the spokesperson for the People's Party — we want this comprehensive study, which is also extended beyond this area of Torneiros and beyond the municipality of Porriño, because the existence of pollution is believed at least in the municipality of Mos, we want this land decontamination plan to be made and that a permanent follow-up — as they have said — with maximum transparency, information and public participation of those areas in order to avoid the logical alarm — understandable — that can have the population for so many decades of exposure to this toxic and dangerous contaminant. Therefore, in line with what we have already defended, we promote and approve in that committee, and with the additions made in this proposal that it makes in Marea, amended by other groups, we will of course support this proposal and we will certainly follow up and ensure compliance in 2018 with effective measures and with budgets mainly by the Board of Galicia and the Environment Council in order to finally solve this problem. I think we owe it to the neighborhood of these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u141	Thank you, Mr Bará. Author group of the motion, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u142	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, thanks to the Socialist Party and BNG groups for showing their support; I think we will come to a final transaction agreement. I have a question that I would like to talk to the People's Party, but I trust we're going to get a deal on this very important issue. A month ago, Mato said in this parliament that he was finishing the report, and we have absolutely nothing. And I trust that this time if we can reach an agreement, it's serious and if we can work from now on in depth. We're going to be totally vigilant so that this may be so. What I was commenting on was the need to expand the area far beyond the Porriño, which I did not comment on in my first intervention: we have a record of the places where there is pollution, but there are also suspicions in Ponteareas and even in Tui. That's why it's important that we go further because, at least, where they're already warning us that it took on their beautiful day, and we'll look for more. I also want to express that I have a boat with lindane peppers, which I was going to bring here but I was recommended not to do so, I picked it up last week on the road where the remains were found, which is theoretically clean. At this point, there's still on the sides of the lyrical road that takes them in the vicinity. In less than five minutes, a group of seven people filled up a boat like this with lindane peppers. So it's important that this is solved as soon as possible and that at least people don't have such ease of contact with the Lindan until they're decontaminated. We think it's nice to seek an agreement with the State, because we understand that in order to make an integral decontamination, we need to seek agreements between administrations. An integral decontamination is a work of great magnitude, understanding how it can be and what we can find there. So it seems perfect to us. It would even be good for us — and I think it is also something that both governments, the Union and the State should explore — to make a proposal to Europe because there are about six or seven places in the Spanish state that have this problem. And since it's in the Mine River, it's also a problem that has already affected Portugal; we understand that you can explore that road as well. Anything but a partial act and let the problem go on. At this point in Aragon, which is the first place where it is being made, there is already an agreement between the Aragon Administration and the Central Government, fifty-five that began these works, and the Aragon Administration has sent notice to 13 municipalities to request information from the vicinity of the pollution. I think this also has to be an example. Let's not be little ambitious in that sense and look everywhere there is and consult with the neighborhood that lives in the area that can remember where these lands have been moved. So I'm going to try to close this deal. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u143	Thank you, Mr. Cal. One minute for the transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u144	Thank you. Let us begin the vote on these motions. Close the doors, please. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u145	We begin by voting on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Don Patricia Vilán. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, formulated by da Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the environmental regeneration of the protected areas affected by forest fires. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u146	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. the Socialists of Galicia, formulated by Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the recovery of the working conditions of the self-employed public sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u147	And finally, we voted for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Marcos Cal. There's a transaction proposal. If you don't read it, please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u148	Yes, I'd be left as follows: "1. Finish as soon as possible the proposals and collection of samples that will begin in the next few days on soils contaminated with lindane instead of Contrast. 2. Once the results of the study are known and the contaminated areas are located, a decontamination project is carried out in collaboration with the Town Council in the first quarter of this year. This project will have to start running throughout 2018. 3. Continue to adopt, in coordination and collaboration with the Porriño Council, the preventive measures necessary to avoid risks to people's health. 4. To conduct a study of the presence of the lindane throughout the municipality of Porriño and its surroundings, taking into account the arrivals and collaboration of the affected neighbors and neighbours. 5. To address the State for collaboration and economic support for the location and withdrawal of the lindane. 6. Perform the relevant analyses to the neighborhood that resides in places where toxic waste is confirmed that exceed the maximum permitted values. 7. Collaborate with the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation and the Town Hall to ensure the immediate supply of water to the affected population."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u149	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Let us make this deal. We voted for this transaction. Text vote of G.P.'s moved motion. in Marea, on the initiative of Mr Marcos Cal Ogando, on the protection of the environment and the lindane. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67. The voting is positive. Accordingly, the text on this motion was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u150	Open the doors, please. And we continue with point 3 of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the situation of saturation experienced by the emergency services of hospitals, as well as primary care, of Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u151	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the proposal you have the floor to Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u152	Good afternoon to all and to all. I have to start by saying that it seems regrettable to us that in view of the situation that has been taking place in the emergency services of Galician health centres since November, even since October in some of them, the councillor had not been able to come here today to this first full of the year, the first of the session period, and to appear in the Greek Parliament to account for the situation, the measures taken, the measures taken, to explain why emergency services offered and continue to offer an image that looks like a campaign hospital in a war zone, looks more like an image of the last century, where she just needs to be doing a screening with lipstick marking patients, because the rest of the elements of a campaign hospital have absolutely all of us all. [[Applause]] Situations of collapse, chaos, overcrowded, exhausted personnel, desperate patients, paddles, chairs on all sides, in total and absolute disorder. And that in view of this situation, a government doesn't consider it necessary to come to Parliament to be very illustrative of what kind of government we have the Greeks and the Greeks, right? A pre-eminent government, a government of order and command and a government that despises Parliament, and they come only when they have no other remedy, because Parliament's regulation so obliges them, or to exercise floral games, as they came this morning as a counselor and a counselor, to do advertising and propaganda exercises. Now, to come to explain the situations that are really suffering from hundreds of Greeks and Greeks, they don't consider it appropriate. The collapse of emergency services, the collapse of CAPs, the saturation of health centres. And the cause is not a biblical curse that occurs every winter comes, by hints of respiratory problems, of flu; the cause is the situation of harassment and falls upon which the People's Party has the public health subject: budget cuts, personnel cuts, lack of planning and foresight. And the German Government and the People's Party can't keep doing nothing. Of course, I want to ask them from here today to abandon the tactic of waiting for me to escape after the storm, to desist from this position that we convert and that they look normal to us, because it's the flu of every year, which is not normal. I use them to listen to what is already a cry, which is a cry that neither the professionals nor the citizenship of our country can sustain this situation any more. I don't tell them BNG, that we've told them on many occasions, and today we repeat it to them, but they tell them all kinds of collectives. And I told Semis de Galicia, the Galician Emergency Medicine Society, which called for attention that this situation had to be resolved. Attention was drawn to by the heads of emergency services of the hospitals, which in both cases called upon the Counsellor to put an end to the collapses, and the patients were drawn to the plant in time and form, who demanded means, that they could not follow the primary care situation completely without resources. They told them medical schools. They told them union organizations. They were told by citizens, patients, users and users. The Galician Association of Family Medicine and the Association of Internal Physicians have denounced the lack of means, staff... they report the abandonment of primary care, the health centres overwhelmed by the lack of personnel, the volume of chronic patients who become easily destabilized and need a lot of attention, the saturated coupons, the primary waiting lists for one week and more. Professionals who attend fifty, sixty-seventy patients a day, who after finishing their work day, who end at three o'clock in the afternoon, who continue and extend their days to four and a half o'clock in the afternoon, because they don't want to leave the people who need care without attention; they don't substitute them or they do them for contracts for hours and no continuity. Patients who are seen during the same process by two or three different professionals. These are specific complaints from collectives. I'll read to some of them. And I'm going to start with the complaint that the EOXI Coruña Center Commission presented to the Coruña Instruction Court on January 3rd, and which reads as follows: "During the entire month of December 2017 and January 2018, the patients attending the Emergency Service of the University Hospital Complex of Coruña are staying for hours, up to forty-eight, stacked in the corridors, for being at the limit of their capacity the different formal dependencies of the service — observations, clinics and others — occupied by patients waiting for bed and who have to remain in the Emergency Service in terrible conditions for waiting for bed and not in the hospital to proceed to their entrance. Patients are thus cared for by some professionals at the limit of their physical and mental capacity, in conditions of total lack of humanity; the camels with sick people lined up along the corridors. And in these conditions you have to interview them, explore them, naked them, cure them, meet their basic needs, administer medication, address the urgent incidences, such as vomiting, seizures, pauses. And all this in the sight of patients and others and their relatives. There is an absolute lack of privacy, privacy, confidentiality, fundamental elements. It is also very serious the shortage of professionals to be able to care for patients piled up in corridors with full quality assurance and follow-up. Professionals are suffering from limited care pressure because of the conditions in which they have to care for patients and perform their professional practice. The situation is so worrisome that professionals work with anguish that they are unable to control with guarantees the situation of all their sick people and the fear that there may be issues. For the rights of patients and for the protection of professionals, we file this complaint.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh When some professionals dare to go to trial, put their names and surnames below, knowing how the People's Party spends them on the board of Galicia, they're at the limit of no, the next... when they're at the limit of no, the next. [[Applause]] That's why they dare go to trial! This is the situation of the CHUAC Emergency Service at 9.51 a.m. on 3 January: 198 patients in the Emergency Service, 32 people awaiting entry, with an application for entry. Of those 32, only two have beds assigned. Of these 32, there are six with demand for isolation, and since they have no assigned bed, they are without isolation; which means they are in a situation that can aggravate the situation or contaminate other patients, six! This is the situation of any day of the CHUAC CHUAC Emergency Service in the Coruña. Can we continue to talk about the situation of the CAP? The CAP professionals are at the limit, they are at the limit, and they are beginning to organize themselves to improve the situation —din —. This week I'm meeting with a group of them, and they're moving me? "We've been holding on for too long and we can't anymore. And in these circumstances we do not accept that they call us responsible for Vigo Administration and tell us that we don't become sick to hospitals because they're collapsed." And the professionals, what do they say? "If I consider that a patient needs to go to a hospital, how can a Sergas charge come to tell me not to do it because we have no resources?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh [[Applause]] That's the situation, that's the situation one day yes and one day too. And that's a situation that doesn't occur exclusively for a few days, it's a situation derived from a structural problem caused by the deterioration situation that the People's Party has suffered from the health of our country. A situation of deterioration, of budget cuts of around 20 per cent since 2009, which in primary care this cut was much higher, of elimination of around 3,000 professionals, of elimination of nearly eight hundred beds, of 790 beds, and of any legislative change to favour the derivation of patients and of resources to private health. And in the face of this situation, the BNG brings back an initiative in which structural solutions are required, because in the face of a structural problem, what is needed are structural solutions. It's not good to say: we now have the templates at 100 percent for a few days, no. What is needed is a totally change in course, a change in the roadmap of the People's Party, to continue to deteriorate public health and start betting on public health. And that change has to come to provide public health measures for hospital units to be open and functioning with all the resources available to them, which are immediately open because all beds closed and blocked in the public network hospitals; size the templates with the number of professionals needed to provide good service and good quality assistance; eliminate the rest rate and recover the nearly 3,000 professionals who have been lost, which you have cut since 2009; and put in place a primary care plan. Because hospital emergencies, the problem of hospital emergency services will be solved in the summer, just as fires are solved in winter, with resources, with means and having the necessary resources so that an increase in the need for assistance does not so collapse the devices of the public network. Waiting for the support of the groups of this camera, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u154	Thank you, President. Like the Christmas tower, the E.R. in the flu peak. The problem is, if there's something more predictable than the flu peak emergencies and their saturation is the incompetence of the Joint Government to manage the flu peak emergencies. The truth is that it begins to be almost desperate, especially for professionals, who live it, and also, obviously, for patients, who suffer it. There's a common disorder and confusion in hospital centers, also in primary schools, but that mess and confusion that leads to a feeling of abandonment of professionals, they're abandoned to their fate. Because patients have professionals, who make a superhuman effort, are almost superheroes. But the professionals don't have anyone, because above them there's a missing councillor, who never gives explanations more than to say that it's all very well and that it's the fault of the patients, for going to hospitals. Soon we'll all have the blame for getting the flu. And in the end, they'd put responsibility for the flu virus. How bad and evil the virus is! Surely, the flu virus is the fault of the opposition! But the truth is, the professionals, in this barrilla of explanations that the council gives, what they feel is abandoned. Even being almost superheroes, even in comics the best superheroes sometimes have difficulties against the worst supervilans. That's how the public health professionals feel. We will support this initiative. Of course, it corresponds to the ideas we've seen defending. We think it essentially goes to the end of the situation. We have an interrogation planned for tomorrow. Finally, we'll know something from the advisor about the emergency problem with the flu peak! Finally, they'll tell us something! Thank you as always. And we'd like to ask him why the council speaks of the fullness of resources when professionals say it's not -- don't I know if they consider professionals to lie or are they hiding something? -- why when patients sadly find that they have to spend hours and hours in the corridors or accumulate in places where they shouldn't be, counsellor says that this doesn't happen; why there's a denial of reality, when it's very obvious. It would be much more productive to be able to face that this is a problem that happens many times, that there is a saturation and that there can be a number or a level of saturation that is very difficult even with all resources, and that we should therefore establish protocols together and reports that could allow us to evaluate. Those reports that are said to exist, but never talk about them. Those protocols that say they're drawn up, but they're never brought in and they're never exposed to debate. And those protocols that actually lead to improvisation and apologizing or hiding with petitions, and saying one day that you're giving yourself as much as 100 percent of the resources possible, and the next day that you're reinforcing that of the day before, when you were 100 percent you couldn't strengthen any more. Actually, we have to have some forecast. Last year we discussed this and some here -- I remember that there were laughter -- said: when it comes in January 2018, there will be a peak of the flu and we fear there will be collapse in the health system. They're laughing! And it's January 2018 and there's a problem, there's a huge saturation problem in the health system, which professionals, as much as they want, can't solve because they have no resources. And this is basically a prosaic problem, it doesn't have to do with all the literature that often counsellors put into their interventions or public appearances; it's a prosaic problem, it's a resource problem. When insufficient resources are given to health care, health does not have enough resources to meet all the needs of the population. And basically, this is what happens. We have problems in primary, structural care, because they are not replacing professionals, because they are leaving health centres, because they are underestimating the value of primary care. What do the patients do when they're in primary care? They see they can't be treated properly, because people, professionals, as much as they try, can't care for seven people in the same minute. So people who are being cared for in primary care, or trying to be cared for, have to be derived from hospitals or go to hospitals. No one goes to the hospital to do tourism. It gives the feeling that counseling assumes that there's a problem that people don't know how to use services. People don't go to the hospital for a taste, there's no other obligation. And check that there's not enough resources in primary care. And they find that in specialized care hospitals plants open up to film TV series, but not to hospitalize people, to enter people who need them. Because if — we know — the beds are always open, they always tell us in the council; what is not personal to attend them, what a shame! Well then it's not worth anything that's open, the beds aren't open or closed, okay? Let's get personal, and then we'll be able to use them. There's a resource problem. And when you argue that public health should work as fast as possible and with as much quality as possible, you have to put in budget resources, and not make tricks with budgets as usual. That you seem more interested in personal resources being in the direction of public companies and not in health professionals. We have to put resources into the health system and, if not, there will be no more to discuss this constantly. And we're going to be here next year because there's no desire to increase public resources for the health system, we're going to be here next year because there's no resources. And give him what he wants, because if there's no resources, we're going to continue to have this problem, and he's going to have stacked, accumulated, overcrowded patients in the corridors, and we're going to continue with professionals working ten, twelve, fourteen or sixteen hours. We'll have the same problem next year. There are doctors warning us what we're going to have in a few weeks, that there's going to be a bigger peak of the flu, and the advisor says no. I wish the counseling were right. I only leave that old saying, "We want the best, but we prepare for the worst." Resources; please, resources.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u155	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. For, of course, we will also support this non-law proposal, just as the rest of the opposition groups did. And with what we defended in Marea last week, a few days ago, in the Health Committee, and on many other occasions, even though opposition groups have taken initiatives in this same direction. Look, we've been protesting for months now about the elimination of the four health areas in the Health Law Counter-Reform Bill, and for the People's Party nothing happens at all. They even came to the commission to miss the people who were protesting. I remember perfectly that they were transferred to them because they were controlled or manipulated. Tomorrow there are also concentrations in defense of public health, and it seems that nothing happens at all. He also has the People's Party Government convened on February 4th a demonstration against his government, against his health management. They have a lock on the workers and workers at the Ourense hospital, and it seems nothing happens at all. And in all these demands, in addition to, of course, the suppression of these health areas, there is a central element, which is the absence of sufficient health personnel, in the health areas in this case, in the comarcas hospitals, in the emergency services and in the overallity of the public health system, but it seems that nothing happens at all. For the People's Party, everything is fine, neither are union centrals, nor parliamentary groups, nor political parties, nor patient associations, nor professional schools. Nor do the heads of service seem to have it, which throughout all of these situations of collapses and saturations of the emergency services have been transferred so that you can't work and that you have to provide more means, both in primary care and in specialized care. They deny the blame. It's not your responsibility, even though you've ruled, and it's people's responsibility. First, it's people's fault because they're manipulated; second, it's people's fault for not vaccinating themselves; third, it's people's fault for turning to emergency services and not waiting for waiting lists at home. We have already moved them throughout all these debates that we have held in the Health Committee that there were several central problems, an architectural situation of some emergency services. This is the case of Vigo, where you've made a hospital with far less room to favor the Povervisa business, and now we've collapsed in the E.R. But there was one central element in them all: the absence of sufficient personnel, because it is obvious. And it also happens in the center of the Coruña. And we also moved it in the previous debates, an extension that you were moving that was a model: a lot of new corridors. That's right, runners to have shirts with patients you don't enter despite there are empty beds. We have Abente and Lago, we have the Mother's Hospital... In Vigo, we also transferred it to the case of the debate we had in the committee. And it wasn't until January 8th that they were worthy to open the closed plants at the Mexoneiro Hospital. Those who were closed for what they were, to avoid using them, to record a series, to favor transfers to private. But they didn't open up, it took a month from the beginning of the collapses on the bridge in December or even more, because we were already at the end of November on this issue, so they could open their beds. All this time, patients are stacked in corridors. And I've already transferred on other occasions what that means to families, to older and sick people on those camels, and to professionals. And I got angry the other day at Commission 5a. And today I'm angry too. It's not at all, because, fortunately or unfortunately, I know what it's like to be in that situation and to work on an emergency collapse, and it's becoming more and more common. When I left the Emergency Service in 2012, people would be crying about work at that time. And on many occasions, that their cuts were already in full force, the reinforcements did not come. And I think you've forgotten, if at some point you've known, what it's like to work under those conditions. And look, you can't transfer responsibility absolutely every time something happens to any person, any collective, and you can't assume anything on the side of the Galician Union. Mr. Feijóo had to apologize in early December. Little did those excuses last him, because those excuses didn't translate into any single measure that prevented people from having to spend Christmas and the rest of the days that they're not Christmas parked in a corridor. You're totally the same. I ask you, please, to reconsider this situation. The contracts that are being made, the internists that you already say are all covered -- we say already in the commission -- are signing us every fifteen days. That's how it's impossible to support a public health system. This is a disaster. I'm done, I don't have time. This situation is increasingly chronicled, and not only in winter but in any month, especially in the months in which staff have the right to take vacations, and you decide not to cover them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u158	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mrs. Prado, the first thing I want to remind you is that you and your group didn't ask for the counsellor's presence, just like the rest of the opposition groups, but, well, it's okay. Let us discuss this subject in Commission 5a. And now the Galego Nationalist Block brings an initiative registered in January, but from 2017, that is, they are valid from year to year. We're also used to talking or hearing about the apocalypse of Greek health; the words are not new, we've heard the same for years. In the last commission, the spokesperson for the Nationalist Block Galego came to say that in a municipality in Pontevedra the neighbors had to take a doctor in another municipality because the quotas were closed. That's totally and absolutely false. But anyway, here's everything, here you can say anything. Our group maintains the position expressed in last week's commission. In fact, at certain times, and in an outstanding way in winter, there is a situation of overburden in the emergency care services. This overload occasionally becomes saturation, and takes place in every hospital in all the autonomous communities of Spain. I like to talk about "overload" and "saturation," because "supply" means or makes you understand that it's for activity, and activity never stops at any time in hospitals. And it seems difficult to extend the influence of the Government of the Union and President Feijóo to autonomous communities governed by different parties. I believe that Catalonia, Cantabria, Aragon, Euscadi, Valencia and the Balearic Islands or the Canary Islands are not governed by the People's Party, and yet — I do not have time — but I would have to go to the hemerotheque to see what happens in the hospitals of the rest of Spain, even abroad. And this year there were, indeed, factors that helped to increase the epidemic problem of influenza: The first was the advance of the peak, which was at the end of November, and which produced that on the December bridge we were in the middle of the epidemic. The second was the type of virus, because there was a type of B virus that is not included in the vaccine, which is done with the previous season virus, and this year is different. It's also true, as much as you don't like the opposition, that the amount of population vaccinated in Galicia is below the standards or what it should be. Although the vaccine was less effective this year, there are scientific studies that show that putting the vaccine every year decreases the entry into the ICU and the deaths of the sick. It has also been found, and it bothers them a lot, but it has been noted by professionals that there is excessive use of emergency services for paintings that should be treated in primary care. I quoted in the committee a survey of medical journals among professionals, where 86.4% of professionals — not politicians — agreed with this statement. Sergas, like any other service or other autonomous community, initiates in these cases plans of continence every year and in each EOXI. The councillor himself stated that emergency personnel work at 100 percent, covering all casualties, although we all know there's difficulty with replacements, and there were staff reinforcements with a hundred middle-aged professionals every day. Beds have been arranged according to the needs of each centre. A chief of staff, one of those we talked about here, was asked in a newspaper and said, "Can we allow a sick person in a crib to not put three beds in a room?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh President Feijóo said exactly the same thing, and the Galician Public Health Defense Association called him ignorant. I suppose he'll also tag this chief of staff. Emergency saturations occur for two reasons: due to increased demand and lack of drainage of patients towards plants. It is essential to speed up the hospital discharges of the infirm and limit the time of admission to the necessary time. In that figure, Galicia is above the average of the state in the mean of hospitalization. But in the face of this measure or the possibility of having this measure, a professional union has already stated that they are rushing high to release beds. Before any solution is found. I'm not in favour of using the hemerothec, but I think there's a need to talk: In 2005, Mr Fraga's last Government: "The collapse of the emergencies forces the staff of hospitals to be strengthened". Year 2006, the first year of the Bipartite: "They report collapses in Emergency Clinics. UGT alerts for collapse in all Sergas Emergency Services." In 2007, more than that: "PSOE and BNG deny there are collapses in emergencies." And then the spokesman for the Galego Nationalist Block, Mr. Carlos Aymerich, said, "It was necessary to see if he did not respond to some kind of protest or Japanese staff strike, which sends patients directly to the plant." And Mrs. Prado talks about how the PP spends them; it's the PP who spends things and what threatens professionals. [[Applause]] In 2008 there was indignation at the carbalese health center because of the lack of doctors. There I was working, I also understand emergencies and flu epidemics and beatings. "Health attributes to the flu the collapse of emergencies. Collapsions in Galician hospitals." January 2009, or the last year: "The flu and respiratory crises saturate the emergencies of Galician hospitals". In that case, "Junta and IGC find the saturation of emergencies to the lack of doctors." In that case, Junta and CIG found it to be lacking doctors. It is also surprising that these episodes had occurred in years which, according to Mrs. Prado, there were two thousand or three thousand professionals more than now. I think that's not true, but it would also prove total and absolute ineffectiveness. And Dr. Manuel Martín — Dr. Manuel Martín always appears in the statements of the Association for the Defence of Public Health — in 2009, said in the newspaper El País: "What explains saturation in emergencies is the lack of information and health education. Many people don't know that the flu is a virus that is overcome by symptomatic treatment, that you just have to drink a lot of water and take medication to lower the fever. Older people think they're going to die and go to the E.R. is what gives them security." It's also interesting to compare some people's assertions or opinions in 2009 and 2018 of the same person. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the problem is not German, not even Spanish, which is a European problem, a problem for all hospitals. —I think we must all work together and improve assistance, and I believe that the Galician Council has put the measures in place as regards staff and bed-keeping. That is why we are not going to support this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u159	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u160	I really am surprised by the words of the People's Party Member, why did the People's Party not come to solve the defeat of the Bipartite? So you've not only solved the problems of the Bipartite, but you've made them worse. So if you're coming to make it worse, then... just like it's not the responsibility of the Government of the Union, because we just have to dissolve the Government and ask for it to come directly to the Government of the State, because we're on the road you're going, or the European Union to manage here, because it looks like the Government of Greece has no responsibility at all. [[Applause]] Look, it's an initiative a year ago, yes. And I'm going to bet on you that if tomorrow I register an initiative in the same terms, it's not that I'm active within a year, but within ten if you don't correct. They'll still be vigilant, because if you don't change roadmaps, and don't correct, the problems aren't that they're going to be there, they're going to get worse. And I don't know who else has to tell them, I don't know who else has to tell them to correct you, because everyone is wrong except the People's Party. Because I made you here a relationship of all the groups who told you to correct them, which did not solve the problems: Semes, heads of emergency services of the hospitals — heads of services of the Government of the People's Party — medical schools, union organizations, citizens, patient associations, the Glaga Family Medicine Association, the Interim Medical Association, the EOXI Coruña Commission, the Urense Center Commission, which are effectively closed, and that the councillor does not have time to come to Parliament and does not have time to receive them or listen to the problems they have to tell him. You don't have time for that either, Mr. Counselor. And I can still tell you: Fatima Narcellas, emergency doctor at the CHUS. "What is the situation at the moment in CHUS, Doctor?" "At least seven-quarters were left" -- yesterday -- "13 serious patients waiting to be cared for, but it came to 22 at 5 p.m. It's desperate for workers and for sick people it's a deterioration in their health. The health policy makers don't know each other or they're not doing the job they're charged for. It's desperate day after day, month after month." So it seems that the situation of saturation in the emergencies is beginning to be chronic. Yes, here in the clinic, emergency saturation is chronic. At the entrance hall of the Clinic (CHUS) we have three deaths and the previous manager is investigated in the Prosecutor's Office for a third death in the corridors. Moved all this situation to the Sergas Administration, to the Health Council, what is your answer? Nothing. The answer is, "We're working on it." That's the answer always, and with closed plants. BNG doesn't say that, says a CHUS Emergency Service doctor, just like everyone I told you before. Who else has to say that they have to rectify; who have to stop deteriorating primary care; they have to stop dismantling primary care; that the primary care improvement plan has to be put into operation immediately; that they have to allocate resources, budgets, human and professional resources; that with fewer professionals and fewer resources it is not possible to provide quality health care? And the Welsh public health is in the ICU, as much as you try, with advertising and propaganda, to conceal it. The director general of health care started by saying that the problem was that people went to the E.R. without having to do it. Then, in fact, the President of the Government came with an imaginary idea; there were neither the collectives nor the people who qualified him as "an occurrence." The occurrence is: I don't put on resources, I don't put on any action to solve the problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u161	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u162	...and the solution is to put beds in the rooms; to put patients in the rooms, that's the solution given by the President of the Government, Mr. Núñez Fexóo. And the more in the ICU public health, the better the state of health has private health, because they're communicating vessels, and you know it well; with which they're emptying the glass of public health so that it's filling up the glass of private health. And a serious illness like the one with public health is not solved...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u164	...—Filled, President—with neither patches nor aspirins; it is solved by measures of the same size that have the problems, structural measures to solve a structural problem. I regret that the People's Party continues in its position and I thank the support of this initiative by both the En Marea Group and the Socialist Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Carlos Enrique López Crespo and six other Members, on the follow-up by the Government of Greece of the development of actions for the common post with other regions and fishing fleets of the experiences and knowledge obtained in relation to the problem of discards, with particular attention to their recast and the transfer of demands to the European Commission for the adaptation of legislation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u166	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Maria Dolores Toja Suárez, through the spokesperson and the authorship of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal (Doc. # 6769).Additional amendment:In the resolution part of the initiative a new paragraph should be added, which will have the following content: "The Galician Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to refer to the Galician Parliament for its analysis and discussion, within two months, a plan reflecting the actions to be taken by the Government to mitigate the problem of discards."]] [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), at the initiative of Mrs Montserrat Prado Cores, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, tabled the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal, Doc. # 6769 [10/PNP-000597].Replace the resolution with the following text:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Greece to request the Spanish Government:-The result of the tables constituted in July 2015 by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment to evaluate the outcome of the application of this legislation.-Report with the actions taken to prevent the application of this measure that is so harmful to our fleet.The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to transfer the most powerful refusal to the Spanish Government and to the European Union of this legislation, request its derogation and proceed to replace it with the aim of maintaining the activity and jobs -excluding the artisanal fleet of the application, distribution and effort, proportional to the quotas of each country, quotas of countries that do not fish can be transferred from countries such as Gaziza, post for the value of the species arising)]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u167	To formulate the proposal has the floor to Mrs. Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u168	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The fact is that we have long been alerting, from the sea and from the administration itself, that certain aspects of the new common European fisheries policy can lead to the impossibility of fishing for our fleet, not to mediate initiatives that can allow some flexibility. These controversial aspects are found in Regulation (EU) No n°. 1380/2013, which oversees the conservation of marine biological resources and also the exploitation of Welsh fisheries, fisheries. So that's exactly where the dispute is; it's exactly Article 15 of that European regulation, which takes up the obligation to land all catches made by a vessel, even the unwanted ones, that until now they used to return to the sea at the moment they were fishing, already in their catch, inside the ship. So we're talking about discards -- you'll have heard of that -- about the ban on discards. With the prohibition of discards, you have read the following text: "All catches of population subject to catch limits during fishing activities in Union waters, or by vessels of the Union also outside those waters, in waters not subject to the sovereignty or jurisdiction of third countries..." — all such catches, I repeat —... shall be stored and kept on board fishing vessels and registered, landed and attributed to the corresponding quotas as appropriate and where appropriate in accordance with the established timetable." That's what the article says. But together with this complicated application, we can also talk about putting on the table the problem that is taking place, and which directly affects what is the principle of relative stability, which are the criteria that are established for quota measurement, and which is something that has already been approved in 1983 — even Spain was not within the European Economic Community — but there was no obligation to land; therefore, that is where the shock is and where flexibility is needed. If that was a little bit, we still have another problem, which may be paired with these two factors that I just said, that it would, for example, be that of the species of strangulation. Strangulation species are the ones that have no quota, or those that have a very small quota, and therefore because these species can also go into fishing and nets of certain fishing vessels, they can complete the quotas that these ships have and could therefore paralyze — or be blocked — when they have exceeded in a certain species those certain vessels. This, therefore, greatly increases this problem for our fishing sector and, from Galicia, from Parliament, from the Galician Union, always — the Council of the Sea — we are concerned about this issue; it is an issue on which we, from the People's Parliamentary Group, work; also, the European Members of the People's Party are involved in this issue, and also the Members of the Congress in Madrid. The Greek Government, which is what belongs to us here, the Union, has always defended the need to progressively avoid fishing discards, always a measure that will go to maintain the environment and to have a guarantee for the future. But all this based on rigorous studies, all of this knowing how it goes by species, quota by quota, barn by barn; i.e., it is not the same, the same fishing always for all and, therefore, Galicia's ruling on reform of the common fisheries policy, which is adopted at the Galician Fisheries Council, is a saying that speaks of the need for some flexibility in implementing this regulation. This obligation would be difficult to implement in the short or medium term too, because there is no necessary studies, it is not, there is not enough knowledge in Brussels to know exactly how our fleet could affect. So we know from Galicia, moreover, that important contributions and important proposals have been made that could help to bridge this situation of direct impact and that could also damage, and that could directly, radically, harm the Welsh fleet. So among the proposals, for example, which have been made, from different fisheries sectors in Galicia, would be, for example, renting, buying quota, increasing quotas at certain times to approach the composition of catches; it would be, for example, establishing a community reserve for accidental catches of fishing quotas, or would also implement the use of selective arts. What about this? That this implementation or application of Article 15 without flexibility would be hidden and could not be applied to the ease and tranquility that the sector wants to maintain precisely the environment — because it is commendable to keep it — and to go slowly and progressively prohibiting discards. So now that you incorporate the evaluable from that discard, as I said before, it would be very harmful, but if the fleet needs solutions and you need the administration to be in your hand, this Government of Greece, this Popular Parliamentary Group will be in your hand. That is why we today want to reach a unanimous decision from this Parliament in Galicia to defend the fisheries sector in Brussels. What do you do or what you've done since Galicia? In this sense, we are working both on the Committee of the Regions and on the Committee on Peripheral and Maritime Regions or on the Conference of the Atlantic Arc. The Atlantic Arc Conference is a task that needs to be highlighted, which needs to be strengthened, because they exceed the defence of that arc, of those countries that have very different interests than those of northern Europe; therefore we should go hand in hand and be very careful that this conference always concludes or tells in their seminars. In Vigo, in July, this summer, a seminar in which representatives of Ireland, the United Kingdom, France, Spain and Portugal participated took place, and from there they drew certain conclusions with a view to promoting a more balanced development, as I say, through their operation as a laboratory of ideas or as a lobby; that is, we should all go together to defend our interests in Brussels and that this application of this regulation was not so impactive on the Swedish fleet. The conclusions of this seminar were shared by several views of the Administration and the fisheries sector on the opportunities and weaknesses that may exist from different points of view and the application of this article. We would have to exchange examples of experiences, good practices, progress in their implementation in daily fishing and try, in addition, to make it clear that this objective is important but that it does not fully adapt to the daily fishing activity of our fleets. The direct implementation of Article 15 of that regulation of which I have spoken does not now adapt to the fishing activity of our fleets; it could therefore threaten to be an obstacle to its viability and sustainability. So we have to get that flexibility. The Director General of Fisheries has already participated in the State Bureau of Discartes, which convenes the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, and also in a seminar — last November, Brussels — to defend this position and to speak and demand flexibility. That is the concrete word, because we cannot deny and cannot avoid it, and we cannot take what is the medium, and we must have a perspective but adapted to the Greek fleet, adapted to the reality that we now have in Galicia, which we have in the Atlantic arc countries and with flexibility can reach without much of the sector on the way. So, after that seminar, speaking of the application, of that ban on discards, we must not forget that going hand in hand and forcing all together is always much more positive. This is a subject of building, we are part of Europe and therefore the meeting points with regions with similar positions must be fundamental to the future and to defend in Brussels. For all the reasons, from this parliamentary group, we believe it is very necessary to continue to develop actions for the common placement of these situations, other regions, fishing fleets, experiences, as I have already said. And we want to count on the support of all political forces, it would be very important. The image we should also reflect from here, drive from Galicia, is that all political forces are in the fisheries sector, that all the political forces in Galicia want and defend the interests of the Greek fishing sector. And I therefore expect that, after the intervention of the different political groups, they can support this initiative. I'll read exactly what he says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to continue to develop actions to share with other fisheries regions and fleets the experiences and knowledge gained around the problem of discards, with particular attention to their recasting and transmission of demands to the European Commission for the adaptation of legislation." Because a regulation that, flexibly, may be very beneficial, but if it is imposed, if it is done in a hurry and not taking into account the interests of the Greeks, because it would not be as beneficial as it might be in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u170	Madam, really the last part of your speech saying that I'm going to do things without haste has left me almost speechless. Because I have to remind you that this regulation comes from 2013, five years ago — I say it without hurry — and since 2013 the BNG has brought initiatives to this Parliament demanding, indeed, that we have all taken hands, but not to make a nice one, but that we have all held hands with the sector to knock on the table and demand the withdrawal of that regulation, which was what the sector was asking for. And you voted against it. They voted against it in 2013, they voted against it again in 2014 and they come now, in 2018, when it will be effective in 2019, saying that we go quietly and without haste. So I'm worried about the issues you're putting on the initiative. They say they urge the Government to develop actions to put together, with other regions and fishing fleets, the experiences and knowledge gained about the problem. I say, five years later they start because they start looking at common issues. And he says he's working on this line both in the Committee of Regions and in the Committee of Peripheral and Maritime Regions or in the Atlantic Arc Conference. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen — and the rest of the Members of the People's Party — why do you think this is a proposal that will help the sector? Do you think we have the same problems as Ireland or France or the Great Sun, when they have no problem with quota and they have too much quota? Do you really think we have any problems like these regions that you want us to analyze together? They'll be paid off, they don't care if they have to count the discards or they don't have to compute them. Do you really believe that the solution will come from the Committee of the Regions, which is an advisory body, Madam? It is consultative, and who will negotiate is the Government of Spain, the Spanish Government, and that is where you — who are from the same political organization, are "the friendly government" — should ask you to ask for and demand that you really defend the sectors of the Galician fleet. That's what they'd have to do, and not do it in 2018, but you've done it a long time before. Of course, it seems dramatic to us to check the lack of involvement, when this measure began to start in 2015 for the pelagic fleet — because it has already been launched since 2015 for the pelagic fleet, for the demersal is 2019. We were surprised that the representatives of the Spanish Government — Arias Cañete, then the Secretary of the Sea — said that it was not a problem, that it was an opportunity. And you applauded with your ears. It wasn't a problem, it was an opportunity, and they applauded their ears. And now they come in 2018 saying we take our hand and go together. We don't really know where, because there's no concrete action. At the same time, the Ministry committed itself to studying the regulations, doing working groups to see what the situation was. We didn't know anything, so that's why BNG's amendment. And we also wondered what the Council did and how it prepared its own proposal for artisanal fishing. The sector is claiming that these vessels are exempt from the application of this regulation. It takes less than a year for them to be applied and they haven't taken any measures in the Council, of course, that we know. That is why the BNG submits an amendment to this non-legislative proposal of the People's Party, and what we demand is that the Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to demand from the Spanish Government — who is the one who negotiates, because we do not have the ability to decide and you do not want it, are very comfortable in that role that others decide for us — because the result of those tables constituted in July 2015 — will be enough time to know what is the result of the tables formed in 2015 — and the report on the actions carried out to prevent the application of this measure so detrimental to our fleet, to know what the Spanish Government has done to defend the Galician fleet. It seems like a matter of minimums, doesn't it? It seems like a question of minimums. And then we also demand that the Galician Parliament urge the German Government to transfer to the Spanish Government and the European Union the most powerful refusal to this measure, to derogate itself and to replace it with others who have as their aim the maintenance of activity and jobs, measures such as excluding the craft fleet from the application of this measure, that the distribution of effort is proportional to the quotas of each country, or that the quota of countries that do not fish it — each year remains in France in the stockfish, for example, quantity of quota not consumed — why can't it be consumed by the Galician fleet, which is completely discriminated and with a quota deficit? These are questions that the sector is asking for and which, of course, seems to us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u171	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u172	...that we have to take care of, don't we? And then the value of the species from the discards. These are concrete measures, Mrs People's Party, which calls for the sector and which would show that the Government of Greece, the Galician Union and the People's Party, if you want to give some sort of way to the problem that our fleet has. And the initiative, which you present late, wrong and the trail — because in 2018 they are presenting an initiative for what has already been set in motion since 2015 in certain aspects and that in 2019 it will be implemented definitively — will require, of course, strong, vigorous measures and will reverse such a damaging situation. If they accept the amendment from BNG, they will obviously show that they want to do something more than seem to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. On behalf of the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, you have the floor to Mrs Dolores Toja Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. In 2019, the zero discard will actually enter into force. There is no doubt that the obligation to land all catches, which directly affects the activity of vessels, is one of the biggest concerns of the fishing sector. And this is precisely because this obligation to land is not clear that it will reduce discards. What is clear is that, as it is established, with the current level of exigencies, it will assume that the boats are moored in the port before even consuming the quotas of other species. If the obligation is not flexible, there will be ships that will not be able to virtually turn on the engines. This flexibility is therefore essential to ensure the future of Galician fishing, and to assess other options and other measures. This is what the sector is asking for, indeed, to make this rule more flexible. But what is the government doing? What is the Government of the People's Party doing both in Galicia and in Spain? Because he does not defend the interests of the sea sector. And we just lived it precisely with regard to the situation that exists in the agreement with Portugal. We see that, operating in the same barns as Galicia and Portugal, it turns out that Portugal has no obligation to rest on Saturdays and Sundays and Galicia itself. Portugal can capture species that Galicia can't. Portugal can use arts that Galicia cannot. That's how the Government of the People's Party negotiates for Greek fishing. So today they bring here this initiative that they're talking about continuing to develop actions to share with other regions and fishing fleets looks very nice to us, as long as they're actually committed to doing something we can see the fruit. You come to the fishing committees and every three months bring an initiative related to discards. They approve the conduct of reports we never know, within the Committee on Fisheries we do not know if they exist, if they do not exist. And today we are faced with such a generic initiative that it will have no effect on fishing, except that, yes, the headline in the media, which I fear, as always, is what you are looking for. And that's where the problem is. You make them, without defending the interests of fishing, without defending the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. And what is the result of that? Well, more than 4,000 Greek ships that don't find any relief. We're running out for fishing. The German Government, with its appearance attitude, wants to convey that it is a matter of concern to you through empty proposals of content, knowing that there is no other formula but to seek a solution to the ban on discards to prevent the fleet from becoming tied up, which implies — if possible — significant economic losses. We are, as we say, on a topic that navigates the drift, without the captain who makes decisions to put the Welsh fishing in his proper place. Let's also forget that the People's Party is a majority in the Eurocamera. They could also take advantage of politics, try to reach an agreement, and try to explain to Europe that, in addition to managing environmental resources, if people are managing. This is what they should do. By reviewing a little as they were dealing with this issue in the various committees last February of 2017, they brought an initiative — which was approved — for a report on the new demands of fishing discards. This was in February. Three months later, in May, they brought another initiative for a study of the impact of discards again. In October -- I'm telling you, this is going to fall like this, to seem like they do -- to prepare another report that would collect the actions developed as well as the rules of discards. He was already touched and that's why he's coming in January. But what are the conclusions of those reports? When do you plan to share those reports with the Fisheries Committee? What practical effects are these reports having? And most importantly, do those reports exist? [[Applause]] Because you, when you say you're working with Europe on this issue, how are you working? Did they work as they worked with the bivalve lab when they said they were defending something when they hadn't even presented anything? For that is why we tabled our amendment from the Socialist Party, so that within two months they would present a real plan of action, not a declaration of intentions of their own. Look, the fleet continues without a solution for discards while you bring to Parliament, as I told you every three months, the preparation of a new report that we do not know whether it exists or does not exist. It looks like a coat of hair to us. They're generating a new way of doing politics, which is an appearance-based policy. This is, without a doubt, another placebo initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u175	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u176	...that it doesn't matter whether or not it's approved. The sector is sick and you won't notice anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, you have the floor to Mrs. Carmen Santos Queiruga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u178	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Egerique, with all due respect for the world and what I am capable of, you are in fishing matters the least serious thing from the German, Spanish and European panorama, to our misfortune. At each parliamentary session with you here live, when you read your proposals and listen to your arguments, reality is overcome by any fiction you could imagine. The reality is that these types of proposals are an insult to the intelligence of any person with a minimum of training or anyone who knows a minimum of work and the situation of the sea. You don't care at least about the situation of sea workers or the sector. So they don't ask for collaboration on something that doesn't interest them at least. The problem is that you know how to eat fish and seafood, but how to fish or how to exploit them have no idea, not the remotest idea! And they're so wide. They bring full proposals, which, if they weren't such serious things, would even be worthy of a bar monologue. But the problem is, they're very serious. The European Union's fisheries policy has focused mainly on large-scale fishing in recent decades, and all of this because of its inoperence and political futility as the Government of Greece and as a political party — being Galicia's largest fishing power in the state and Europe —. And that is why the Community and European scientific leaders have been increasingly unaware of many biological, environmental, socio-economic and management aspects of small fishermen, the fleet of the Great Sun and, above all, our craft fleet of bass, because the discards mainly focus on large-scale fishing, not craft fishing, mainly, and therefore, as has been said, should be immediately excluded from these kinds of regulations if you did your work where they had to do it. Because they don't. You have neither done it nor had the slightest initiative — not through any type of research agency, neither the Union nor the state, nor those who are located here in Galicia with their own budget or even the European Union — to propose solutions or do studies to move Europe. They've done absolutely nothing, and now they're coming to ask us for cooperation. It's a sprinkling thing. And they're coming with an own-initiative trick. They don't have anything more productive to say or anything but this? Really? And this is not something we say. [[Murmurs.]] The economist and professor Sebastian Villasante of Santiago de Compostela University of Santiago de Compostela and other researchers already spoke about the situation of discards and how they affected artisanal fishing. He already spoke and warned that the European Union's new discard policy and the obligation of landing would irreparably lead to a reduction of 50% of the Welsh artisanal catch. And it's not yesterday, it's not yesterday! He's a researcher, not a parrot, not a radical, a researcher. The problem is, you don't even know how artisanal fishing works, you have no idea. They have no idea, that's the problem. And starting from the damage that it does to so many Galician families of artisanal fishing — an artisanal fishing that has almost a zero discard rate, because they won't know it — we don't understand why you, instead of bringing this ridicule and bringing filled proposals, don't push from the Union, or urge the Union, so that we are the Greeks and the Greeks who promote sustainable fishing with minimal impact, which is what we propose from our groups in Galicia at the state level and at the European level. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What are they dedicated to — why do you say that the members of the People's Party work hard in Congress and in Europe — besides charging and having golden retirements? Because, really, help solve the problems that the sector has... We don't know what they tell them, or if you're interested. It really doesn't make any sense. We want to talk about how we innovate in by-products derived from these discards. Projects have already been executed. We have already spoken in Commission 8th of this; for example, of research teachers, such as Professor Ricardo Pérez Martín, and of the Valdescar project, which started in 2015, praised at European level – you didn't know him. They have also since 2015 another European project called Life iseas, which seeks to bring solutions to the fishing fleet before the progressive ban on discards introduced by the European Union — a project also paid with European funds, not the Union, because the Union will have a lot of budget for research but for nothing productive, neither support the IEO nor any body. Only if they are asked to implement projects and carry the Europeans these research and knowledge, along with the sector, to be able to have a new handicraft fishing policy led by Galicia, which we could then export out of here. We can...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u179	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u180	...exporting and taking those fleets, those countries you're talking about, not the other way around. And science is science not ideology. The ideology is to apply science if you're interested in it or not. But as you're dedicated to working as supervisors like Mortadelo and Philemon, we, of course, are going to vote against this because you've already seen yourself with the lab of bivalves that you, apart from lying and making unnecessary, by the sector do little, quite little.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. I'd pray silence during the interventions, for all groups, because there's a lot of noise in the room. For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Teresa Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u182	Thank you, President. Well, I'm going to start at the end, because the truth, Mrs. Santos, you're talking about this is an empty content initiative, but I don't know if you've been listening, while you were talking about the content so constructive that you had your intervention in Brussels to speak in common about the Galician fleet and to protect the jobs of the Galician fleet. You come here to talk about that we are also those of the marigades, when what you post marigadas on twitter is your fellow Spinaar, which is of Podemos/Marea, or Marea/We may, we don't know very well about what scope, I no longer know where you stayed Spinaar. Because the truth is you have to look for any pretext you have when there's a fishing initiative here, any pretext to start here talking about what first comes to your mind. [[Applause]] The same happened to Mr. Merlo another time. You lose a chance of gold — five minutes in the Galician Parliament — to talk about fishing matters. They continue to turn their backs on the Greeks, because when they turn their backs on the Greeks, you will continue to wane and the people's party seats will continue to grow, because they know who defends their interests in Brussels. For the Socialist Party, Mrs. Toja has already said many times in the committee that "the fan they do", which "do not do"... We are working, Mrs. Toja, that "fan they do" that you say, that story—that, in addition, you did, I don't have time to do it—of all the initiatives that we have put forward, of all the initiatives that have been unanimously approved by the Commission, of all that is being done from Parliament, from the Government of the United States, from the Government of Spain and also from Brussels, is to defend the fisheries sector. So you call it "doing fan" but for us that's working. And then the lords of the Galego Nationalist Block, as always, Mrs. Prado, believe that they have the absolute criterion here and that they are the only ones who know the Galician fishing sector; always with the same speech and always insinuating that we are not with the sector nor do we know the sector nor do we fight for it to stay in Galicia. And that's exactly what we're doing, and adapting ourselves, in addition, to the rules of the game and the rules we're in, which are very beneficial. In this case you are asking for a direct breach of this law, and you must also protect the environment. It's that we, precisely, if we want to keep the Galician fleet and the jobs, we have to try that flexibility and we have to try to impose those rules, but also with benefits for us and not only for others. So, with regard to your amendments, in order to express our position, you say we move the results from the work tables. But it's just that they haven't finished their job yet; so when they're done, maybe we can do it. Those tables were still held last week. Another says that the Sea Councillor is counting on Parliament. On repeated occasions he did so in matters related to discards; therefore, transparency is total. This is also said with reference to the amendment of the PSOE, because it goes along that line as well. From Galicia, as I said, we are working on the European Commission, Parliament, the Committee on Regions, the Committee on Peripheral and Maritime Regions, we share knowledge and there is absolute transparency with everything being done. There is no need or intention to hide anything here, there is an intention and there is a desire on the part of this honourable Member and on the part of this People's Parliamentary Group to go together to Brussels, to go together in common and with one voice. But if that's not gonna be possible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u183	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u184	In this case, your amendments have no bearing on this request we make today; therefore, we are going to reject these amendments. But you can still rethink the vote and you can vote in favour of this GNP, because the sea sector will surely appreciate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to guarantee the student's right to autism spectrum disorder to an inclusive education in the public teaching system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u186	This motion for a non-law has been tabled amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u187	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Luca Chao Pérez
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u188	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. And, of course, very late to Esther and Monica, thanks for coming and accompanying us this afternoon. Of course, thank you very much for your daily effort to support the rights of children and children with adaptive autistic spectrum disorder. Thank you for pointing out which way it should be and for always being there being the essentials. I have to start saying something. And I just don't want to have to talk about what I'm going to talk about today. Of course, from En Marea we didn't want to have to talk about Arturo or about what happened at his school, at CEIP Salgado Torres, or about the responsibility of the Galician board for the damage to this child and his family. And we'd rather not have to do it because that would mean we're on a significantly different stage, with all the student's rights with an adaptive disorder of the guaranteed autistic spectrum, with a fully inclusive educational system, a scenario, ultimately, which is not what Arturo found, and it's not what he finds today, nor what the rest of the children and children in this country have the same disorder, nor the rest of the children with special educational needs. In this sense, Arturo's case, unfortunately, is not an extraordinary exception, Arturo's case is possible, it was possible, because we have an educational system that we can improve, that needs to improve. It was possible because certain specific demands of care are pending, and that's what we wanted to discuss today. It is not, Mr. Fernández Gil, as he once told me, answering precisely this matter, an attempt to convert the case into category. On the contrary, it's an attempt to illustrate reality with concrete examples, because the reality outside includes Arturo, of course, and we think his case requires all our attention. But, in addition, that reality also includes many and many others, Juan, Rosa, Miguel, Sara... finally too many children and girls to be able to deal with all their cases, too many cases to address the needs and opportunities for improvement that we can and must address. That's why we came here today to talk about Arturo. For those who don't know the Arturo case, I'm going to comment that this child, born in 2004, suffers — as I said before — an adaptive disorder of the autistic spectrum, which is why he has recognized a 65% degree of disability, and has been educated since the 2009-2010 course in the Salgado Torres center of Coruña. This centre has to be pointed out as an ordinary centre of preferential schooling, centres which, as established by the law-enforcement legislation, have the right purpose of providing educational care to students with special educational needs which, because of their unique characteristics, require human resources or specific materials of difficult generation in the rest of the regular centres supported by public funds. It wasn't like that, however. It should also be pointed out that, once Arturo's case was studied by the specific guidance team, it was concluded that he needed educational support — October 8, 2012 — which he had received and allowed Arturo to finish the course 2012-2013 satisfactorily. However, the situation changed with the beginning of the 2013-2014 course, a course in which it suffered a documented process of educational exclusion that manifested itself in the following facts. He had a change of heart, one of the fundamental issues, because it would be precisely the new tutor the teacher who would end up causing part of the problems we related below. There has also been a change of a master's degree in therapeutic pedagogy. These changes are not random, nor the result of chance, but the result of a specific policy of cuts which the People's Party carries out and which has dramatically increased the percentage of the teacher's internage since you reached the Government. In addition, he suffered a sensorial overload due to continuous screams in the classroom, destruction of space due to elimination of visual support and elements of cognitive accessibility. And here he must stop. As the follow-up report itself made by Pilar Barreiro, visual support is not an election but a right that all children have with these educational needs to be offered to keep them in communication with the world around them. There was therefore no justification for them to be withdrawn. Increasing and alternative communication systems have also been eliminated. And finally, the working methodology has radically changed. They are a series of totally counterproductive changes for a child with autistic spectrum disorder, which not only were they left to feel in their school performance, clearly affected, but rather in a clear behavioural deterioration and a worsening of their clinical frame, as one could testify to the medical reports that were presented in the sentence we are going to talk about today. I mean, everything that could be done wrong in the education system was done wrong, Arturo's needs were ignored, his rights violated, fundamental rights as the same right to education, and the right to equal education. And these are not the words of En Marea, they are the words of the court that he has judged. In the face of this situation, and after consultations and repeated complaints by his mother, who tried to resolve his son's situation both with the school and with the Council itself, without any success, this family would end up having to resort to ordinary justice. In this way, his claim was based on the violation of Decree 299/2011 of 7 December, so attention is regulated to the diversity of students in the schools in Galicia. They also rigged the demand directly with the Human Rights Convention, which, they insisted, were clearly violated, and justice would end up giving them reason. The case was clear. Thus, on October 18, 2017, the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia gave reason, as I said, to this family, and sentenced the Education Counsellor to pay compensation of 4,500 euros to the student and another 1,500 euros to his mother for withdrawing the necessary educational support and the damage caused. We speak of this sentence because it entails an unprecedented judgment in our country and it has an indisputable value for the whole collective, since it is the first step in the creation of jurisprudence in the field of the administration's heritage responsibility in relation to educational care. Thus, the importance of the judgment lies in the declaration of the administration's heritage responsibility in relation to the student's rights, having the Galician board, as I said, to compensate the minor and his family once both the withdrawals of the educational support needed and the damage that had occurred in their development have been proved. And in the same way, he was opposed to the psychological damage that had been done to his family, which must also be compensated by Junta. As pointed out in the report that Autism Spain made in this case, and that it was taken into account in the previous ruling, the approach of the difficulties of conduct requires the involvement of all those who relate to people who have autistic spectrum disorder, including educators and educators and all the different professionals who pay special attention to them, since, if they do not do so, they could be significantly and significantly interfering in their health, education and quality of life, which happened in this case by changing both the tutor and the professor of therapeutic pedagogy, as well as all the changes that took place in the classroom and in the material media of the students. In addition, this judgment accused negligently the behaviour of the centre by withdrawing the visual support necessary for the minor. As stated in the judgment itself, this only circumstance is sufficient to determine the estimate of the appeal. Finally, the sentence also echoes the position of starting inequality for children with autistic spectrum disorder, recalling that this makes them creditors of an educational administration response tailored to their needs, which was not done in this case. Therefore, because of this situation, and with the objective of working on measures that avoid new cases like Arturo's — because the fact is that nothing has been done since this judgment, there is no action put on the table that prevents cases like Arturo's from ever being there again, and in fact we already have another case judicialized in Galicia and others that are about to be tried by it, by children and children with autistic spectrum disorder that are not being properly attended—for all this, to work on measures that avoid it, the Parliamentary Group of En Marea presents the following proposal not by law with eight measures, which are not the definitive ones, but which we believe can help to improve the situation: First, to strengthen the continuing training policies of teachers directed at the entire teaching community, not only that involved in specific programmes, so that the problems of educational exclusion are assumed by the whole educational community. Secondly, to systematize the sources of exclusion, to diagnose the situations of educational exclusion, to order the possibilities and proposals for intervention, and to provide material and human resources with specific guidance teams, which have been greatly diminished since the arrival of the People's Party government. Thirdly, to comply with the Council's obligation to provide the necessary support for full personal development, in a situation of equality with respect to the rest of society's actors. Fourthly, ensure the use of alternative and increasing communication formats. Fifthly, to guide the educational intervention that must be carried out by all those who participate in the education of the student with these problems. Sixth, strengthen the relationship between the teacher and the student. In the seventh place, encourage personal and non-bureaucratized assistance from families and students. Finally, and ultimately, guaranteeing the right to inclusive education for children with autistic spectrum disorder, which is what we are talking about today, contemplating the action measures necessary to ensure that the right to education is truly for all. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u190	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and good afternoon also to the people who accompany us today in the room. Go ahead, from the Galego Nationalist Block, we're going to support this initiative of En Marea, which we've added with our amendment to two issues that we believe are important. These are two questions with which we intend to go to the bottom of the problem that has been made manifest or which reflects that sentence that is spoken of in the explanatory statement and which has just reported, in addition, Mrs Chao now in her speech, with the objective of also going to the bottom of the question and seeing from a broader perspective, not only from the Arturo case, which was what put us through the judicial route before the reality that lives daily, to a greater or lesser extent, in many families in our country. In particular, in the proposal we made from the BNG — and I will go directly to that because we have only five minutes — we have two questions. First of all, the need to stabilize the jobs of Therapeutic Pedagogy and Hearing and Language, ultimately making the squares that are currently temporary. In the judgment referred to by Mrs Chao, and which is collected in the explanatory statement, one of the fundamental elements is precisely that change in Professor PT, something which the Board could prevent and palliate, making, as we propose, these current provisional squares definitive. This could not increase jobs, which is a topic totally vetoed by the People's Party, despite the absolutely objective, absolutely tangible and obvious lack of public education in this teaching country, not only for the attention of specific educational needs, but to meet the general educational needs that exist in our country, and which is the result of the continued and accumulated budget cuts since 2009, of the depreciation of squares through that imposition of the replacement rates. We, since the BNG, have demanded that it be an emergency to provide public education in this country — as we have previously defended for public health — with the personnel needed to meet the needs we currently have, to provide a service that is nothing but a fundamental right, a quality service. This is a question of political will, which could not increase the number of professionals and which could also be applied immediately so that it would enter into force in the 2018-2019 course through the general transfer contest. And on the other hand, what we also ask for in this addition amendment is to provide all the centres with the specialized staff they need. To provide all the regular education centres in our country with a specialized teacher and that the Union meets the agreement — which we included in our own amendment to refresh the memory, because it has passed ten years ago — signed between the Education Council and the trade unions on 8 June 2007 in which it is established — and I will quote literally — that: "In those ordinary centres that integrate the student with specific educational needs — this is the specific case to which we are referring right now — the catalogue may be increased according to the number and type of needs, especially of Therapeutic and Hearing and Language Education. Even so, in educational centres that do not contain PT and AL, the Educational Administration will take the appropriate measures to meet the needs that are presented." This is the only way to ensure a truly inclusive teaching that meets with quality the set of needs that our student presents. I mean, the student who has specific educational needs, or the one who doesn't. It's a fundamental right, and it's the only way to guarantee not only inclusive societies, but fair and truly democratic societies, that meet the needs of all people, regardless of our abilities or not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u191	Quiet, please. There's a lot of murmuring. It's very annoying who's in the use of the word. It almost bothers me even, imagine!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u192	We hope — and we are done — that our proposals will be accepted, and we hope that this will be a turning point to change the way things are being done and that it has highlighted justice this time, and that they are coming to defend, that they are coming to denounce, the trade union organizations, the professional people who work every day, but also the families, that there are many deficiencies to this day in public education in this country, that they are neither covering themselves nor properly meeting the needs of the student who has specific educational needs. And I insist, there are issues that are raised in our amendment that did not mean an increase in the number of jobs, which is simply a question of political will and of wanting to start to change the course a little over the last ten years. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen who accompany us today in this plenary session. First of all, it goes on to say that our group will support this non-law proposal, as it could not be otherwise, which refers in particular — although it is based on the specific situation of a student — on the treatment of students affected by the autistic spectrum disorder, which we know is a disorder of neurodevelopment and brain functioning that generally presents difficulties in communication and interaction with others. This situation, by itself, can lead to scenarios of social exclusion within what is the ordinary life of people who suffer from this disorder, but who get even worse when we're talking about school. Scope in which any exclusion situation, for any reason, is clearly vetoed by law. I mean, you shouldn't be in any situation, and much less when you have a student or a student affected by that disorder. We cannot tolerate any kind of exclusion within educational institutions because of any situation. But with this said, it doesn't understand our group that we should generalize situations, and move that attention in general to students who suffer from some type of specific educational need is bad in the education system. It's not optimal, it's better, like everything else, in the world of specific education and I think that in the world of public services in general. But we can't say that these students aren't treated, at least with minimums, because we have an inclusive education system. We have an inclusive education system which has been advocated since the enactment of the Law on the General Management of the Education System — by the way, of a socialist government — which did not at the time count with the unanimous applause of all the groups, especially at that time of the People's Alliance and after the People's Party. So there are the so-called Special Education Centres, reserved -- and they will understand the colloquial use of the term -- for extreme cases, where students and students who suffer from this type of disorder are generally not found. The situation in Arturo, to which Mrs Chao referred, is a situation that we have to deeply regret, should not have occurred, but it is also necessary — as you said in your exhibition — to make it clear that there was unfortunately a bad spot on the educational centre where the student was educated in the course 2013-2014, and therefore seems to have common sense — and so loved justice — that it is the Councillorate of Education — which is the head of the centre, in the end, to which he answers heritageally to the demands of the family. It seems — I insist — absolutely logical. If I may speak for a moment of our amendment, it is true that at the time of this situation — lamentable, I repeat — with the student, the Council had not published a protocol — which it published in 2016 — specifically for the treatment and educational care — at the best possible — of the student suffering from this type of disorder. That's why we are asking in our amendment to comply with what is set out in that protocol, and therefore the Council ensures that the effective implementation of this protocol is carried out in all centres, which as such is a document containing general lines. Obviously, the educational response and the educational organization will have to be adapted to each individual case, depending on the profile of the student or student who needs it. But if you will allow me — because time is also running out — to comment on what you are asking for, and to synthesize in strengthening the teacher's training policies — which seems consistent — and to provide the necessary support. Mrs Rodil spoke here, with very good judgment, of the reduction or of the continuing stream—and I will say so, even if she did not say so—that there are between the educational centres and the council of all the courses to provide the teacher needed for the attention of students with specific educational needs. You, Mrs. Chao, you, Mrs. Rodil, you, Mr. Fernández Gil, and I too, are in the 4th Commission, and I heard there one of the most spectacular reasonings of my life, when the Mr. General Director of Human Resources and Centres said that as the number of hours of the professor had increased, he had automatically increased the number of hours of attention to diversity. And I say, yes, in the centers where this teacher is, where he needs and doesn't equip himself, he can't make an absolute calculation. That was literally what he said, and we'll all remember that. No, you have to stabilize the teaching templates where the student with specific educational needs refers to. If we have an inclusive education system, we have to ensure that it counts with the necessary resources, and a fundamental waste of those resources are not the economics, not by far!, they are the professionals, the teachers and well-trained teachers to care for those students, and the centres they must count on. Nothing else on my side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u195	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u196	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, too, to the people who accompany us today in the plenary. The truth is, Mrs. Chao was speaking of what I was going to refer to, or what she had already done on another occasion, which was intended to generalize or use a particular case to put an overview or try to get an overview that the education system does not work. I am glad that Mr. Álvarez partly refuted that question, because in the end it is true. You imagine I come up here and I say, Jan is a Greek and lives in Ribadavia. Maria, she's a Galician and lives in Ribadavia. Pedro is a Greek and lives in Ribadavia. So all people are Welsh and live in Ribadavia. You'd automatically be saying, this deputy is carrying out a false argument, because he's drawing a hasty generalization to, from a number of specific cases, lead to a conclusion that does not fit into reality. So that's what you do on many occasions here, and this is one more of them, because they're ultimately using a specific case to pass on to the society that the Greek education system doesn't work and that the Greek education system is not an inclusive system. So the truth is that this is one more episode, or one more sample, of the fact that it is also repeated on numerous occasions in this House, which is the argument that you also use or want to use permanently: "Let's not let reality destroy my speech." Why? Well, because reality is stubborn. Look, you can consult, as I did, this report from the ministry. I'm sure you've consulted him before, I don't know. If you haven't consulted, I recommend it. It is a statistical report on non-university teaching and the inclusion of students with specific educational support needs in Spain. Well, you can come here and review how of all of the 17 autonomous communities, it turns out that the autonomous community with the highest percentage of students with specific educational needs that are within the ordinary education system is Galicia, with 91.9%, against other communities like Catalonia, with 62%; Extreme, 75%; Aragon, 76% etc. We're headed for inclusion. So when the advisor says here again and again that the Greek education system is the most inclusive system in Spain, he's saying it based on certain data that you can consult. That is why we cannot allow them to be constantly questioning the Greek educational system based on specific cases. Besides, I'm telling you one thing, in this case generalization is not just trying to translate a particular case and make it universal, but rather, in your reading of your own judgment, let's say a partial reading too. Because I also had a chance — as you do, I imagine — to read that sentence, and you use a part of the sentence to criticize and question the functioning of a whole: the Greek educational system. They interpret the sentence interestingly, because you know that the failure recognises a part of the demand, but that it also refers to a timely situation in a course rather than to the whole attention to the diversity that this student received earlier in the center and that he continued to receive later in the same center. You know perfectly well — and so they also said and saw in their explanatory statement — that this problem arises in the 2013-2014 course, in which a number of circumstances occur. By the way, in the judgment itself, and in the reports which appear in the judgment itself, one speaks of circumstances which can be attributed — as said in some ways — to the functioning of the centre, but also speaks of the individual circumstances of the boy within his family. Obviously, I think you have to put everything in its context and keep everything in mind. But, I say, in its own judgment it points out and says: "It leads us to conclude that neither in relation to the care provided in previous courses nor in subsequent courses, in which the minor continues to be educated in the same centre, there was a lack of educational attention in the treatment of the minor." I mean, it's up to a specific case. By the way, I have received a lot of attention, Mrs Chao, which you said here, from the rostrum, that the professional — in this case the tutor — who arrived at the new center was the one who caused the disturbances in the student, which I find absolutely appealing, because of course we do not doubt the professionalism of the professionals of the education system. You came here and said that, you can review the video -- you can do it later -- and you put it in question and you've come to say that that professional was the one that caused the situation to worsen in this particular case, in this boy. Obviously, one of the objectives of the German Government has always been to work as hard as possible for the integration of boys and girls with specific needs into the education system in the ordinary regime. You know there are different pedagogical theories about the relevance or not of this inclusion, but the Government of Galicia, the Government of Galicia of the People's Party, defends this inclusion, and that's why policies are being carried out to conquer greater inclusion and to be at the head of all autonomous communities of Spain including in the educational system. Obviously, this is done because there are very good professionals, but because resources are earmarked. They can't be constantly criticizing the fate of public funding resources to the Welsh educational system for inclusion, when it's proven to be the most inclusive system in the state. Of course, they can use that speech in other autonomous communities. And here, of course, we have to improve, when we talk about inclusion, we always have to improve, but they can't try to move this image to the citizenry that everything works wrong in Galicia, when we are precisely at the head of inclusion within the education systems of the Spanish State. Finally, we understand, as Mr Álvarez well said, that since the moment that this matter took place, steps have already been taken. This protocol has been developed for students with autistic spectrum disorders, and therefore we are on our way to work to improve these situations and to prevent cases like Arturo's from repeating. But don't come here, don't try to have a system that today is a reference and pioneer, and I think it's a system that you have to copy all the other autonomous communities of Spain by the degree of inclusion that you get from the student of Greek. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u197	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u198	Start by saying that from En Marea we're going to accept the addition amendments from the PSdEG and BNG because we understand that they improve and complete our proposal. As I said at the beginning of my intervention, the objective of this non-law proposition was that the case of Arturo is not repeated, nor the case of other Arturos, nor the case of other children. What we're talking about is to avoid systematic violation of human rights. Don't be a joke! That's what the sentence says. Because the question and the substance would be, did you do something from the Council, from the conclusion of the judgment, to avoid new cases like Arturo's? No, no, no, no. The sentence came in September. No, nothing was done. Are they using all means to guarantee the right to equal education? The answer is, again, no. They even recognized him from the popular bench. Can you do something? You can do a lot of things, but you decide not to vote. All right! Is the right of children with autistic spectrum disorder to remain in a social environment as normalized as possible? The answer is no, too. And, on the contrary, is there anything you can do? Are there things that can be improved? Even from the People's Party bench, which says they're going to vote against, they said yes. They said yes. There's a lot of things, of course. A lot more than we brought today, of course. They could introduce an amendment and put other measures on the table, but they're not interested. What we're defending, in fact, is not very ambitious ideas, but they would actually allow us to move forward to improve this reality. I mean, voting no, not only is it as sober as ever, but it would be myopic and would be, above all, unfair. We're not trying to say that the attention of schools to children with autism is always bad. No, no, no, no. What we're saying is that it's still an unresolved problem today. As Diary Autism says: "There are cases where public schools do an excellent job. There are others who do what they can with less and less resources. And there are others where what they do, they're scared." The case that we are commenting on today, unfortunately, is that of the latter, that there are. Looking the other way won't make them disappear. They exist. The problem is obvious, and they lead us to the name of the child or child entering into a big lottery bomb. If you're touched by a good school, with all the resources, Phenomenal! If not, bad luck! If not, the safest thing is that when there are problems, the family and the child are invited to leave the ordinary center and go to a specific care center. That's what happens, just go to school. That's what's happening. We don't say it, doesn't say it in Marea, it's not an ideological position of the opposition, said the sentence itself clearly and forcefully when it speaks of "clear injury to the fundamental right to education." A fundamental human right. Very serious, very serious, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: an obvious injury to the fundamental right to education. You have the possibility of working to prevent this fundamental right from being violated again, but you prefer to go up here and look elsewhere, let the time pass. He also speaks of lack of resources and means. He's also in the Council's hands to put the necessary resources. This case shows that action is needed to prevent cases like this from happening again. Well, before that it doesn't fit to be a profile, it can't be said that it can be improved, but that we're not going to improve it today, we'll see if another day. There is no need to look elsewhere or focus on what are specific cases, because the specific cases are the ones that build reality, because of the priorities of this Government it is up to guarantee the rights of all children in this country, of all Arturos in this country too. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-23-DSPG056.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
