ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. Let us resume the session with agenda item 7, which corresponds to questions for the oral reply of the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the opinion of the Government of Galicia regarding the strike convened on 8 March 2018, taking into account the labour and social discrimination suffered by women
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u2	We started with the question of Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u3	Thank you very much. Good morning. Let me start with a previous question today, because I cannot help but denounce the anti-democratic drift we live in. The same day that we know the three-year sentence of a rapper for criticizing the royal family, a book is taken away because it talks about the links between drug trafficking and the People's Party. The truth is that very long the shadow of the irregular funding of the PP and, Mr. Feijóo, seeing what's going on, I think there's a boat ride through the Arousa River... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u4	That's the point, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u5	...that are not explained enough.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u6	To the point. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u7	And today we asked him whether it is necessary to support the strike of women that is convened for the next 8th of March. I ask you why it's important to know if the president of Galicia's board is on the side of the women's rights defense or whether it's going to reproduce the carca argumentary and [...] of the People's Party, which, instead of charging against inequality, what it does is to charge against the strike call. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] A strike with which it is intended to denounce the situation of discrimination among women; to denounce that violence by masculine violence has killed more women than ETA terrorism; to denounce that a worker charges EUR 4,513 less a year than a worker for doing the same work; or to denounce that female employment is more precarious and that poverty has a woman's face. And we also want to denounce on this strike that conciliation is a career of obstacles that every day have to overcome women, but not only in private business, this is also happening in Galician Union itself. Today there are women working in the Union who, when they want to ask for conciliation rights, where they are sent to trial, because the Union is denying them those conciliation rights. [[Applause]] It's happening at the Galego Consortium of Equality and Welfare. What an irony, Mr. Feijóo! This is what's happening in your government. But also during these years of the crisis inequality has increased, and the crisis has been used as an alibi to reinforce an increasingly unequal model. And what did you do to this situation your government? So let me sum it up in five points: the first was to support all reforms that undermined labor rights and conciliation rights; the second, to freeze the application of equality laws; the third, to fund centres that segregate children and children according to their sex; the fourth that made it cut resources for equality and divert some of these funds to entities such as Daughters of the Divine Heaven, Religious Serbs of the Passion or Child of Mary—in the end, I don't know what it has to do with equal rights of women—and, finally, what its government does is to put in place paternalist advertising campaigns that cosify women. But look, Mr. Feijóo, women don't want to be Galician's biggest, what we want is they pay us the same salary when we do the same job. What we want is that there is co-responsibility and that conciliation is not an impossible mission. [[Applause]] And what we want is to live quietly and fearlessly in the house and in the street. That's why I ask you if you don't think it's necessary to support women in this March 8 strike call.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Excuse me a moment, Mr. President. You used an expression that I don't think is lucky, and I'm going to ask you to pull it out. There is no PP [...] [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] That's an expression that offends the dignity of a group, so... yes, yes, yes... [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] So, I ask you... Mrs. Pontón, do you withdraw that expression or do you not withdraw it? [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, I heard... he said: a PP [...]. I heard that expression. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] That expression is therefore withdrawn. You don't remove her. And it's, therefore, a call to order. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Why does the absence of arguments always try to hide with a set of constant and continuous insults that represent most of Galician people? [[Applause]] Your Honor, I don't know what I'm accused of, but, in any case, any kind of accusation that comes from you doesn't surprise me. We will continue to work — as it cannot be otherwise — in the first place, so that the rule of law is met; that which does not matter to you. Let the rule of law be fulfilled! Article 28 of the Staff Regulations states that it is illegal, in the case of equal jobs, to pay different wages. So if any woman in Galicia is suffering from this kind of crime, what you have is to make it known to the Labour Inspectorate. And, of course, the Government and I make ourselves available for any case that may occur in Galicia of this content. Secondly, Your Honor, I don't come here to insult you, among other things, because I never did or will. What I don't come to, of course, is to accept you... I'm not here to accept from you or anyone a set of falsehoods, insults and slanders. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, as the data are sufficiently clear, let me tell you what the effort of Galician society is in relation to the decrease in labour and social discrimination still in Galicia, Spain, the European Union and around the world suffer a lot of women both in the workplace and in the social sphere. The difference in the rate of activity between men and women in Galicia is lower than in Spain. In Galicia there are 8 points of difference, and in Spain there are more than 11 points. The female unemployment rate is lower in Galicia than in Spain; Galicia is 15% and Spain is more than 18%. But the differential with men is also smaller than in the whole of Spain. The differential in Galicia is 1.2 points and in the rest of Spain 3.4 points. As far as social security membership is concerned, today more women are involved in social security than when I took possession; that is, when you ruled, there were fewer women on social security than today. And in relation to unemployment, with unemployment registered, today in Galicia there is less female unemployment than when I took possession; that is, when you ruled there was more female unemployment in Galicia than today. That's the data, Mrs. Pontón, I don't know exactly what you're talking about. What I am sure is that, for example, the last Women's Employment Plan, adopted in June 2017 — eight months ago — puts 100 million euros to encourage women's employment in the world of work. We increase, for example, in the latter plan by 25% the incentives to hire women, from 54 million to 65. Your Honor, we have strategic plans for equality. Throughout Galicia's history there are 7 strategic plans for women's equality, one of which has been done by the Bipartite, another by the Tripartite and five by the People's Party of Galicia. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, on conciliation policies, I would like to speak. Look, when you were proud of conciliation policies, you were investing in Galicia 40 million euros; now that you criticize them, you invest 84 million euros. The Bono Council with the Bipartite did not exist, the Bono Care with the Bipartite did not exist, the children's houses in rural with the Bipartite did not exist, the children's schools in industrial polygons with the Bipartite did not exist. Your Honor, there have never been so many employment reconciliation policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u11	...as at this moment. I'm sorry, Your Honor, that you despise the women's wage and social divide. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u12	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u13	Mr. Feijóo, why is it that when you don't like arguments what you say they're insults? I didn't make up the photos! And, Mr. Feijóo, I do not invent your dangerous friendships. [[Applause]] So, I, with insults, nothing, I leave this to you, which, indeed, is what you normally have us accustomed to and used to in this House. [[Applause]] You come back a little with the usual argument. Mr. Feijóo, to see there's someone worse than Galicia, he's already happy. And so, Mr. Feijóo, we won't be able to move forward. Because you know what I'm talking about? The situation of inequality that women live in this country. I'm telling you we have a wage gap. I want to remind you that in your first take of possession as president you promised in this House that you would end the salary gap. Where are your measures, Mr. Feijóo? Not a single measure in this area! What we have is more precarious. Because you know he's hiding behind the data? Women of flesh and bone who have suffered very badly throughout their lives. Do you know that behind your figures there are 98,000 women who appear as workers but that over the year they don't even earn 1,800 euros? 1,800 euros working a year! Is that the income you think women can live with? And, look, your government is the champion in breaking the equality laws, starting with the Galician Union itself, because you know that the Equality Law obliges you to have equality plans within the board for workers and workers, and there is not a single body of the board that has those equality plans. But it also violates the Law of Equality at Work; it imposes the Law of Gender Violence; and, of course, it violates its government's rights to reconcile women. He has the Council of Galicia, Mr. Feijóo, of the Consortia workers' judgments, to which, when they want to reconcile, if they are systematically denied their rights of conciliation. And you know who's granting them? The judges of this country, Mr. Feijóo. Does this set an example for the Galician Union of how women's rights are met, Mr. Feijóo? [[Applause]] It's just that this is a real disincentive. What we propose to you — because it is clear that this government in all these years has not driven a single measure in favour of women's equality, not a single measure, Mr Feijóo, neither legislative nor impulse — is that there really is a priority in the way of women. I see you don't agree with the strike call and that, as I said in my speech, you'd rather welcome that argumentary from the People's Party that reproduces neo-machoism. So what we're asking is that there's a German wage equality law, that companies that violate women's rights can't hire public administration and that when there's a gap...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u15	...more than 20% of them have to act in these companies to see what's going on. We want there to be a valet in defense of women. And look, lessons on public services, none, because you're doing it is privatizing public services. And since they like to talk about the Bipartite, the Bipartite made it in three and a half years more day centers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u17	...and childhood schools that the People's Party over thirty years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u19	Thank you very much. Your Honor, the insults are really no argument. O you!, continue with this set of constant and continuous insults because, in the end, if women listen to it, they will realize that you do not represent them. My honourable Member, on wage differences, since there is a serious need to speak in Parliament about wage differences, I tell you that Galicia is the sixth autonomous community with a lower pay gap in the state. If you tell me if we're satisfied, the answer is no, but it's the sixth with the lowest pay gap in the state. About the average wage for women, since 2004 in Galicia has increased by 42%. It's the second autonomous community in which Spain grew the most. That's the data, Your Honor. The salary divide is lowered in Galicia and made it more rhythm than the average of Spain. That's the data you want to hide. But if you want to keep talking about a serious wage gap — of course, I came to mean this — it would be all right if we were to take into account wages per hour, which is just like the Eurostat measures. Yes, Your Honor, I know that you, Europe, Spain... are not interested in this; you are interested in the ever-increasing whole of your followers. Look, we can't say there's a balance, because there's no balance. In Galicia women's hourly wages are lower than men, 14%; but in the European Union women's hourly wages are lower than men by 16.7%. That is, the wage gap in Europe, in the European Union, is higher than in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, I know you're not interested in the richest countries in the world, that I know you don't care, you come here with your gospel. The pay divide in wages per hour is better in Galicia than in the European Union, but, as you can imagine, talking about employment reconciliation, after you have had that competition for four years, it is surprising. You used to spend 40 million euros, we said 84; and you did a lot more, amazing! Look, Galicia is Spain's autonomous community with more duration on maternity leave throughout Spain. Yes, Your Honor, 20 weeks; the rest of Spain, 16 weeks. One more month in Galicia than the rest of Spain. But that's the data, Your Honor, that's the data! [[Applause]] The Council Bonus did not exist when you ruled; now nearly 4,000 people are being benefited. The Care Bonus didn't exist when you were ruling, now we're spending more than 2 million euros. You ignored the small places where there is no childhood school, the children's houses in the countryside, as they basically do with the real needs of the country. And right now, there are 310 squares and we're going to end the year 2018 with 62 houses in villages, in parishes. Children's schools, which you're the one who tells me about that. When we got to the government, there were 12,000 squares; now there are 23,500. Your Honor, that's 85% more. But what are you talking about here? Are you telling me there's a pay gap? The answer is yes. That the salary gap in Galicia is lower than in Spain? Yes. That the wage gap per hour in Galicia is lower than that of the European Union? Yes. Of course, we respect, of course, any constitutional right. If you want to call a general strike on March 8, you should probably explain why you never called in earlier years, why you didn't call when you were ruling and the pay gap was higher, why you didn't call when you were ruling and reconciliation was inferior and why you didn't call all these years, Your Honor. Why didn't you call? [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, in any case, we respect any constitutional right...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u21	...be it a strike, be it a stop, be it a cultural act, be it an act of protest or be it a concentration; have no doubt about it, we'll all respect it. Now, to keep quiet, to look elsewhere and to say that things are now worse, Mrs. Pontón, I tell you that the only thing that is worse at this moment is your group, the BNG. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the management that is being carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to its commitments with Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u23	Mr. Fernández Leiceaga, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u24	Good morning. Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, you have my understanding. I understand how he should feel, earns for most absolute and, instead of victors, receives coldness in his party. His figure sees her devalued in front of Mr. Rajoy's government. The electoral strength shown in the last autonomous elections is perceived more as an internal threat, and overcoming punishment. [[Murmurs.]] But it's preferable that you take the situation instead of denying it, because suppressing a conflict, trying to hide it, is causing a lot of trouble to Galicia. It's time to try another strategy, try a strategy that works. In fact, the Government of Spain has recently made sure that it will unlock the bills it had brought before the Congress of Deputies, it recognises that it has done parliamentary filibusterism, but now it will have a slightly different attitude. From this paron, remove the parallization of the AP-9 transfer from the medium, first problem. Second problem, the known data on the execution of state investments in Galicia in 2017 indicate that we are on peuper levels, the worst after the disaster of the previous four years. They would be the worst five years of investment in Galicia since 2000, in absolute terms. Second problem. Third problem, Mr. Feijó. If we talk about bids and not executions, Seopán, who is a recognized source, says in his last report that 2017 is the worst year, the worst year of central administration in Galicia since 2000. There's economic recovery, there's fiscal recovery on a global scale, but there's punishment for Galicia. There's finally a financial margin to fund the Basque Cup, awarded the sovereign strategy to the PNV, coal to Galicia. Third problem. Note, one month ago Adif cancelled contracts for the year 2011 for a total amount of close to 2,000 million euros on communication, security, electrification and maintenance of the AVE Pedralba-Ourense-Saintiago line. There may be additional delays, but the most important thing is that, if we take account of the cancellations, the balance of the Ministry of Development over the past four years for Galicia is negative; not that it did not invest, but that the balance is negative, Mr Feijóo. Fourth problem. It's no longer putting on another cheek, that's to say it rains. And your Infrastructure Advisor, who says to follow weekly Development Investments, didn't he tell you anything? Or did he tell you and you just ignored this and looked elsewhere? What do you say you don't include in the Atlantic freight corridor? There are two connections from Alxeciras, Madrid and the Mediterranean; two from Lisbon, Coimbra and Madrid; and to Galicia, nothing. And the minister tells us first that it is not possible to change that trace, but then incorporates Zaragoza and Pamplona, after incorporating Bilbao and giving Cantabria a solution. But for the northwest, nothing; another problem more than you will have to give some answer. And we could go on with other topics: with AVE, with Fever, with the roads. Mr. Feijóo, allow me to go to the classics. How long will Mr. Rajoy's government abuse our patience? Until we agree that in his blindness he will continue to let us down? How long will it continue with the courage to discriminate against us? Mr. Núñez Feijóo, do you think that his biblical strategy of putting the other cheek is giving the desired results for Galicia? Is it not appropriate to change strategy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u25	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Leicega, I can't thank you any more for the honourable qualifications I receive from your introduction to the question. You tell him to leave if he punishes. I don't think so. Because, if we don't, we wouldn't be ruling here, and what matters to you, Your Honor, is a candidate for the presidency of the Union, that people vote for him, and the vote to continue ruling for nothing more and nothing less than twelve years. The punishment is not bad, Your Honor. May they continue to punish me in this way, which is voting me every time I run for elections by the People's Party in Galicia. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, it is true that you will consider my figure in the People's Party to be devalued. In any case, I feel calm because his figure within the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party is at the very top of his political career. Your Honor, I tell you without irony. You are the president of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. It's true that when you took possession of the president of the Socialist Party, the Socialist Party believed in federal Spain, I thought there was a reform of the Constitution towards a federal model, but last weekend, in Aranjuez, you're still talking about federal, but they first converted the Socialist Party into the history of the Socialist Party into a non-federal party, but rather a centralist party: what is said is what the general secretary says. Curriculum menu, Mr. Leicega, as president of the Socialist Party of Galicia! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] But, in any case, Your Honor... yes, yes, no laugh; that everyone knows; everyone knows. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Look how nervous those who support this model get.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u27	Mr. Losada, be quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u28	Look, Your Honor, you're telling me about investment. There are people who represent Members here, there are Members who represent here, not the people, but those who are sent to them. I represent the people, Your Honor, and therefore I can speak freely. [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, you know how they left Galicia perfectly, how they left state investments. This is the curve, Your Honor. When you were in government, 21,000, 22,000 euros were spent on infrastructure in Spain. [[Mr. President of the Galician Council, Núñez Feijóo, teaches a chart.]] The 2017 budget was 7,500. This is how they left Spain, with the biggest public deficit in the European Union and about the ransom. Despite having 65% less budget for Spain, in Galicia we were able to finish the works of the Atlantic axis — more than EUR 1,100 million — to finish the Cantabrian highway, whether they are in works, assisted or finished, all the sections of the highway between Santiago and Lugo and that all intermodal stations are compromised. Those are the results. You tell me about AP-9. Since July 29th, Galicia has been released from paying EUR 400 million to the central government of the state, which with you we have continued to pay with the pockets of the Greeks at the price of a state highway. When you ruled, you applauded an investment of 8% of the state budget, and now you're against an 11% investment. Yes, Your Honor. Those are his amazing ideas and deliberations. By the way, you have just stated that a contract has just been left without effect that nullifies the private concessions of the maintenance of the line to Galicia at high speed, and it seems wrong to you. You made a concession to maintain Adef's lines to private companies. The central government cancels this concession because it is against the economic interests of the State Fair, and what it does is to tender it under the State budget.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u29	Quiet. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u30	Mr. Leicega, look at the figures. As I have no time, Mr. President, the data...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u31	Quiet. Silence! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u32	Ah!, let me go? Thank you very much. May I continue?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u33	No, no, stop now, Mr. President, when you can.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u34	To get into the debate, Mr. Leicega, and that you have a replica turn to contradict me, look, I tell you that I am not going to defend the issues I do not participate in. But last night's data requested by the Ministry of Development to report in the Chamber reads: "Floor Adjudications in Galicia in 2017, four times more than in 2016. Assessments of Galicia in 2017, the first autonomous community in Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u36	...in adjudications, 12.1% of the total adjudicated investment in Spain."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u37	Quiet. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u38	Let me conclude... [[Murmurs.]] But, Your Honor, what happens on that bench?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u39	There's nervousness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u40	But if I haven't talked about the AVE, which promised the inknife, the former leader of the Socialist Party! I haven't talked about it yet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u41	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u42	But if we keep it that way, I'll have to remember. See, in Galicia, 353 million euros were assessed in 2017; throughout Spain, 2,600. The percentage of adjudications of works in the year 2017 in Galicia is the first in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u44	This is the data from the Ministry of Development. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u45	Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u46	Yes, Mr. President. I didn't tell you about AVE before, for example. The Ministry of Development already recognizes that the Taboadela-Ourense plot will have to wait in the middle of the next decade, as we have said for some time. Or are you in a position to offer us another number? And we haven't talked about the rest of the connections you promised, the ones that were planned. Do you have any positive news for Lugo, Ferrol or Vigo? Finally, do you know that with what he has ceased to execute on what Mr. Rajoy's Government was planning in the last four years in Galicia would give to release from fees to AP-9 forever four times, or that he would allow to buy Audasa time and half—what he has ceased to execute on what was planned, on what he himself put in the figures of his budget—? And today we know that in the extraordinary road map — by the way, a model that is very similar to what you are criticizing in this AVE adjudication of the year 2011 — in the first 2,200 million that are scheduled for next year and a half, there is no work for Galicia. Nothing for Galicia of 2,200 million? Those are the beatings that I think they're just giving him to excel in the People's Party, and they're trying not to have a more sovereign political role within the party. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, the effects of this unusual central government attitude with Galicia are short-term on our economy; for example, the public labor factor — according to BBVA Researcht — had a negative impact on Galicia's growth in 2017. Do you know what the autonomous community was where it had the most positive impact? Cantabria. And I don't want to insist on the medium-term impact on the competitiveness of our companies. The regional competitiveness index of 2017, published by the College of Economists, which coincides with that of the European Union, indicates that we have moved from a mid-low of 2008 to a low level today. That's the summary of your balance sheet in the last eight years. Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, your balance in this respect is nothing positive. You're being the best ally the central government has on the subject of investments in Galicia. He's not fulfilling his role as president of the board because he's making a mistake of strategy. And we tell you that we are willing to give you a hand so that there is a common strategy, a common strategy of the different political groups operating in Galician society; a common strategy to tell the central government that this situation cannot continue, that it has to commit itself to Galicia, unlocking the transfer of AP-9, putting us in Europe through the Atlantic freight corridor, boosting the work of the AVE as it should be, solving the problems that exist, completing the network and doing something similar in the Extraordinary Road Plan, of what we are absent in the next year and a half. This is our approach, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. If you accept it, we'll be with you, and if you don't accept it, it'll remain in a strategy that doesn't take us anywhere and that I don't know how much performance you'll have in your personal plan, but of course, for Galicia is a suicide strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u47	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Santalices. You tell me you didn't talk about AVE. He talked about AVE, but it's no wonder you haven't talked about AVE, because the truth is that history is already written; that can no longer be interpreted. We can interpret a future, but, of course, history is already unquestionable. From the future you can think of. But look, in history, with Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez, of the Galician Plan of Me... you started. They started this way when he began to rule Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero. In this House I had several occasions to tell my former Vice-President that he was being deceived — you were a spokesperson — when they said AVE was entering Galicia in 2010. Then they began to say, at the end of the legislation, that the AVE entered Galicia in 2012. Then there came a slightly more sensible minister and accepted with me that the AVE would enter the year 2015. Then, when Spain was left on the edge of the crash and we had to go down from 21 billion euros of investment to 7,500, we agreed that the AVE had arrived in 2018. And then the year came to say, "He's in the East," there's no assumption, there's no new matches... 2016, blank and, indeed, the AVE will arrive in Galicia next year. That's the data, Your Honor. There's no doubt that in case the AVE doesn't reach Galicia next year, the first one to get up here says it's me. No problem, Your Honor. But it is true, and I understand the nervousness of some member, not his, some member of the Socialist Party, because the hemerotheque is powerful, and I reiterate again: "Abel Caballero announces the high speed for 1993"—signorship, being Minister of Public Works. [[Applause]] Right, Your Honor, what if in 1993 you and I hadn't been talking about this? Right, Your Honor, you can't fool everyone all the time? Right, Your Honor, what shouldn't the Socialist Party talk about high-speed train in Galicia? [[Murmurs.]] No, Your Honor, no, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u49	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u50	Select a better theme, but from the high-speed train theme in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u51	Mr. Losada, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u52	...you really can't talk. They lied to people so much that now, Mr. Leicega, even if you're a responsible spokesman, just about the AVE, I recommend you don't talk much. Look, Your Honor, tell me about an extraordinary road map. But do you know that the extraordinary road map needs the state's general budget for approval? Do you come to offer me a pact to approve the state budget or offer me a pact to continue boycotting the state budget in 2016, 2017, 2018 and so on? And now, Your Honor, the proposal is: we do not approve of the budget and, consequently, you cannot spend, therefore, you are responsible for it not being spent. Look, Mr. Leicega, don't insult intelligence because you're much smarter than the role that makes you. Look, here's a minister who comes to Galicia every three months; here's a minister, gentlemen, who didn't lie to Galicia. It's about time! It's time, Your Honor! And the commitment of the AVE is to arrive next 2019 Test Trains entering Galicia from Madrid. That's our commitment. But, Mr. Leicega, I tell you with absolute cordiality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u54	...see, objectively, this government of Spain abides with Galicia much more than any other previous government, considering the content of state budgets and considering the institutional blockade that Spain is suffering, among other reasons for the irresponsibility of the Socialist Party. In Galicia, Your Honor, there are criteria, first point, there are voices and there are votes. Criterion, voice and votes. And so I would feel very uncomfortable if I had to defend a government of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero and Mrs. Magdéena Álvarez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u56	I'll never do it. What I'm telling you, Your Honor, is that these aren't my data, they're Fomento data, that you'll have to explain them, but obviously I'm moving the Fomento data in the Chamber. If they're not true, you'll have to ask for responsibilities, I'm the first one. The data from the Ministry of Development last night say Galicia is the first autonomous community in labor adjudications in 2017. This is the data. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. de In Marea, on the temporal horizon of the propaganda policy being carried out by the Italian Executive in connection with his government action
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u58	Mr. Villares, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u59	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, we appreciate you wanting to talk here about tricking people. You will have the opportunity to answer about your own deceptions and those of your government to the entire population of Galicia in this question that we ask you. Look, just last week at the Environment Office of the High Court of Justice said in a report that there are no incendiary plots, that there are no incendiary terrorism, and therefore we think that you now have the obligation or will certainly have the opportunity to explain why campaigns such as this took place during October 2017, where 80,000 euros were spent on announcing bomb and flat the existence of fire plots and terrorism. Thus, in plural, of terrorism. We want to know if, once the Attorney General's Office of the High Court of Justice has said that there are no plans or incendiary terrorism, you are going to carry out another institutional campaign paid in the media by denying that information to know what they were also based on to build it. Can you explain that to us? He will certainly not be able to explain it to us; therefore, in Tidea he will do it for you. You were unable to manage a catastrophe, an environmental catastrophe with available resources, and you thought it was much easier to manage public opinion than to manage with resources available to catastrophe, and so, during the black Sunday of the fire strike, you first decided to hide the information, they decided to put a TVG to work, to repeat the Luar over and over again, the Land Rober, to put us Galicia in goals, so that people wouldn't know what was going on. But yes, people knew what was going on because nearly a million Greeks perceived by their own senses what was happening. He didn't sew. And since he didn't do it, they devised another plan, to blame someone; for they couldn't hide it, at least to blame someone. And then they invented a campaign in which they created an outside and common enemy to exempt you from all responsibility. What was the problem? That the Prosecutor's office has now come to disassemble his arguments. The prosecution has just confirmed that there is no incendiary terrorism, that there is no plot, that what was a tremor of the People's Party of propaganda to conceal its own ineffectiveness, its own inefficiency and its incompetence in managing a catastrophe. But the tremor was made of stone cardboard and burned with fire. The prosecution broke down that tremor and therefore you were in evidence, with your inability to manage the available resources, coordinate the troops and protect the population. The worst thing is that they were unable to protect their country, and therefore once they were discovered, they were disappointed. He was disappointed that they were unable to manage the available resources, disappointed that you could not appear on public television on Sundays to give explanations, disappointed that they were using TVG to manipulate public information and disappointed that they were not then able to manage this disaster. But, above all, what disappointed him was the lie, using two of the victims by deceiving them with false causes to conceal his true situation, which was the inability to manage the crisis. The question is clear: do you think with propaganda you can erase your failure as ruler? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u60	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am not surprised, of course, that you in your question use as a literal content to criticize the Government for its propaganda — I say — and for its ineffectiveness. It's funny, Mr. Villares. If you want to know about propaganda and ineffectiveness, you should happen, at any of your multiple assemblies, to take a look at what's going on there. It's true that at the summits of the Tide of Podemos you, many of them, are not invited, but you should come by there to find out if we're talking about propaganda and ineffectiveness. [[Applause]] Propaganda and ineffectiveness is, Your Honor, to say a set of questions that you... you don't care! What's the matter? If you've been using rigor for some time now, you don't use it as a criterion. Must be the script of your set of matches. [[Laughter]] Look, Your Honor, you said I didn't show up on TV. If you had been criticising me a few months ago because I spent all night talking on all TVs...! On all TVs! [[Laughter]] On every TV they wanted to contact me. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, you say the prosecutor's report says... however, what we read is that the prosecutor's office is going to issue that report in April, and you know what the prosecutor's report says in February. It's very surprising, Your Honor! [[Some ladies and gentlemen: Ooooh!]] Obviously, it will be because you have access to reports that we do not have. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Third consideration, Your Honor. Who decided to investigate whether there was a plot or not was this government, even this government asked for it; who decided to investigate it was the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Galicia. Ask the Galician High Prosecutor's Office why he's looking into what just doesn't exist and it's nonsense. Your Honor, why do you say so many things that are not true? The Journal of Sessions is here. I've never talked about arson plot...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u62	Mr. Lago! Mr. Lago!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u63	You don't care!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u64	No, Mr. Lago, that's inappropriate for a Member. Please! We're in Parliament! That expression... I don't want to call him in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u65	If what Mr. Lago wants is to give lessons of coherence, he's wrong about the room. Look, Mr. Villares, rehearsal, Journal of Sessions, see. If I spoke of "incendiary terrorism" -- and I insist -- yes, yes, yes, of "incendiary terrorism." I insist, I insist, on "incendiary terrorism". You should know, if you remember anything, that there is no need for a plot to commit acts of terrorism. You can commit an act of terrorism individually without connecting to anyone. Therefore, the fires in Galicia made in the morning, the more than 300 fires in 48 hours made in the morning, continuously and steadily, taking advantage of a hurricane passing through Galicia, are acts of incendiary terrorism. I reiterate it in my responsibility as President of the Galician Council. [[Applause]] I know, Your Honor, that you have a feeling different from the country than I do, but I, when I see that my country wants to burn it, taking advantage of a hurricane, continuously taking advantage of the fires, in the morning hours, during the specific 48 hours, Your Honor, that's unacceptable, say whatever you say. What surprises me, Your Honor, is that you're telling me about the prosecutor's office. There you are! The prosecutor will say what he thinks is appropriate, because here's a rule of law, and, as president of the board, I'll assume all those reports that he says to the prosecutor's office...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u66	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u67	...of course, but what we cannot change, Your Honor, is that there were more than 300 fires, when the helicopters could not fly, taking advantage of the impact of Hurricane Ophelia passing through the Galician coasts, and what we cannot, Your Honor, is to hide that there were continuously and steadily intended fires. You are the one who protects, Your Honor! I have no commitment but to the Greeks. And by the way, Your Honor, since you have that report, could you give me a copy? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u69	You talk about rigour when you talk about terrorism. You want to talk about rigor? Yeah, let's talk hard. Look, you said those were -- and you just ratified it in this House -- for you acts of terrorism; you said so. In fact, he said on October 19 that, as they were acts of terrorism, you would take and compensate the victims as victims of terrorism. What he did really was play with the pain of the victims and advertise. Do you want rigor? I'll give you a lesson in rigour. Look, here's the Official State Gazette. [[Murmurs.]] Law 29/2011, in Annex I thereto, provides for compensation to victims of terrorism. And, in the event of death, it is EUR 250,000, and in those of great invalidity, 500,000 — Official State Gazette. Official Journal of Galicia of October 30, 2017, after its statements, ratified in this House: "The victims of terrorism will receive EUR 75,000 in the case of absolute death and incapacity." The rigour is written in the Official Gazette of the State, Mr President. You did propaganda speaking of terrorism, and today you claimed it again here, you said that the victims would be treated as victims of terrorism, but of course, from its propaganda to its facts there is a very big frame. No life can be paid with any money, but, when you make a statement and when you get a commitment, you have to comply with Galician citizenship, you can't lie, you can't cheat them and much less on such a sensitive subject as playing with the pain of the victims, with the victims and with the whole of Galician society, with the whole of Galician society! [[Murmurs.]] It was the justice, in this case the Prosecutor's Office, to whom you once again dismantled your tremor, which took away the colors of the People's Party, justice, and that's why you don't want justice to work well, so you're interested in continuing the conflict of justice. Yesterday, in Lugo, a trial was suspended against the mayor of Barriers, accused of corruption; yes, of the People's Party; yes, of corruption; yes, of urban corruption. This was what you wanted, the collapse of justice so that no case of corruption investigation could be followed against the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u70	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u71	...with more convicted of corruption, as happens, for example, with the mayor of Palas, convicted of prevarication and harassment of a civil servant, those you hold in power with the support of the People's Party? [[Applause]] Stop excuses and resolve the strike of justice according to the criteria which this House has unanimously established. Accept your demands. It's a matter, not of salary, but of public service, it's a provision of squares for justice to work better, it's not to discriminate against workers who were doing the same work as others and it's not to steal people when they're sick, that you're taking half of their salary off. Yes, besides, it's also recovery of wage rights. [[Murmurs.]] You explain, not only to officials and officials of justice, explain to all officials and explain to all Galicia why you raise the salary by 7.5 per cent, to you and to this whole government, while cutting rights to officials.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u73	Why? Why for the workers and the workers sacrifices and the government benefits? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u74	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u75	Thank you very much. I am grateful that you did not argue that acts of terrorism can be committed individually, without any plot, because what you have come to ratify, indeed, is what I just said. Yes, yes, now you're telling me about the compensation for the victims of terrorism. Look, Your Honor, would you agree to consider them as such? Yes, or no? No, Your Honor... excuse me, Your Honor, for asking this question, because the back one disagrees and you do. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That's normal within your group... that's normal within your group, Your Honor. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] But...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u76	You didn't get into the debate. Why did you come into the debate? No, no, there's nothing. No, no, he didn't mean you. Mr Villares is in the debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Why did you come in? That's the complication. Go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u77	Ma'am, if we're Germans! Let's talk like Germans! Irony exists. You mustn't worry, it wouldn't be the first time; it's every fifteen minutes, Your Honor. [[Laughter]] The contradictions within your group are consistent with your group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But let's go on. The first time there are compensations for the budget of the Galician Union in case of fire victims is this time! The first time in the whole history of the autonomous community. First time, this time! There were also deaths at other times and with other governments, and no one was compensated. The first time the victims are compensated is this time. Second reflection. The Government wants to include in the supposed permanent penalties that can be reviewed the incendiaries that cause damage to intended fires. You're against it. When you check that a fireman intentionally causes death, do you think that would be worth a reversible permanent penalty? We do. Your Honor, the police and state security forces and bodies have made available to judges more than 200 people this year suspected of forest fires. That is the obligation of the executive power and of the state's security forces and bodies. From there he enters, Your Honor, the rule of law and his guarantees. You brought a climate expert to the Lumes Commission, and the climate expert said what happened at that time were exceptional and extraordinary circumstances. That climate expert said the fire was uncontrollable for any device with any number of troops. I see your group's experts are quite serious than the group you propose.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u78	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u79	Look, Your Honor, if you want to be serious, let's be serious. Now it turns out you're standing in union liaison of the strike committee of justice. O Allah! I'm no stranger to anything, but negotiation from rationality and common sense has always been present in trade union organizations. [[Laughter]] I continue to believe in trade union organizations; in some more than in others, of course. But what I'm telling you is that right now you should tell them, since it's a union link, that in Galicia you charge more than in the middle of the autonomous communities of the state with the proposal they have on the table; all the people who work in justice, all of them. In management bodies, Galicia is among the 9 communities where it is most charged. In processors, among the 8 communities where it is most charged and in aid, among the 6 communities where it is most charged. In Valencia, Catalonia, Aragon and in the set of autonomous communities it covers less than in Galicia. Why don't you agree? Your Honor, the increase in the salaries of the staff of justice, if the general bureau of the Public Service agreements, which are currently sitting in Madrid, were about 9% to 10% over the next three years. Can you tell any German worker that has guaranteed an increase in their wages between 9% and 10% in the next three years?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u80	Quiet. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u81	Look, Your Honor, yesterday, in this room, I heard a bunch of nonsense, nothing more and nothing less than a member of your group, whether the government paid or not. Your Honor, the Government receives less than that member of your group, all of them as a whole. The President of the Union charges less than the honourable Member of this group who came here yesterday to lie and slander, if this government charges less than you as spokesman for your group, Your Honor! [[Murmurs.]] But what are they talking about? [[Applause]] What are you talking about, Your Honor? You must have dignity, and you must not deceive people, Your Honor. The government won't charge a potato more than it paid, and the government won't accept any slander or insult from anyone. And that's why, Your Honor, I'm telling you, look, not you... if you have any chance of rectification, Your Honor! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have as much coherence as internal unity: none. And you have as much strength in your principles as strength in your leadership: none. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Quiet, please. [[Pause.]] I was saying we're going to debate a non-law proposition. Non-legislative proposal of GGs. PP. Popular of Galicia, In Marea, Galician Socialists and Galego Nationalist Block on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the inclusion of minority or rare diseases considered serious and cases of this type in the process of diagnosis in the list of diseases reflected in the annex to Royal Decree 1149/2011, as well as the introduction to this of the necessary changes in order to define what is considered direct, continuous and permanent care for the purposes of a benefit
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u83	The debate, as you know, as a non-legislative proposal taken by all groups, consists of a five-minute time for each group. The Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block begins. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u84	Thank you, President. Good day to all and all. We actually bring the debate a non-law proposal that has been transferred to us by the Galician Federation of Rare and Chronic Diseases, by Fegerec, which met with the political groups representing this Parliament. When they met with us to move the initiative, on that occasion Carmen, Paca and Sabela moved us that they were very interested in it being a joint claim, that it was a claim without protagonists; that they were very interested in us making an effort to reach an agreement and bring it to all groups. I want to bless you today because you've managed to get us to agree and we've been betraying this initiative together today. In fact, it's a fair initiative that makes justice to a need. What it claims is that, in 2011, Royal Decree 1148, which recognises an economic benefit for parents, adoptors, caregivers or even tutors in some cases, reduces their work schedule to care for children affected by cancer or serious diseases, and the objective is to compensate for the loss of income suffered by mothers or parents by reducing their daytime need to care directly, continuously and permanently for their dependent children or children. Mothers or parents with children in this situation have access to an economic allowance to reduce their work schedule by at least 50% for the care of minors. And if this royal decree constitutes an important starting point for families with a minor or minor affected by a serious illness, this legal rule incorporates in an annex to the royal decree a closed list of those diseases that give entitlement to the benefit, making us meet a very restrictive and insufficient standard, as it leaves out all that disease that does not appear reflected in this relationship; a ratio of 109 diseases. So we're encountering a very important number of denials of requests from people who want to accommodate those established in this royal decree and who are faced with mutual rejections. And what are the reasons for this rejection? Well, not having a diagnosis to be able to accommodate. A lack of diagnosis that in the case we are dealing with, of rare diseases, is a barrier in many unbreakable cases, because estimates are that in the world there may be around 7,000 or 9,000 diseases catalogued as rare that in many cases have no diagnosis; in Galicia there may be about 200,000 people with some type of pathology catalogued as rare; in the case of the Spanish State there is no record and in the case of Galicia there begins to exist, but today there is no such record. Clearly, there are a lot of people who really have a serious illness but who don't have a diagnosis and are not in any catalogue. With which, having that diagnosis is an inframountable barrier to be able to present as a requirement for access to that benefit. And then the next question is the interpretation of the need for direct, continuous and permanent care of the child. So they're mostly mutuals doing a tremendously restrictive interpretation. The first one is that this condition disappears, since its interpretation, when the school stage begins and it goes to the educational center, which, of course, seems to be a disincentive. The second is that there is a long-term hospital income, when we all know that in many cases there is no hospital income, but there is a serious illness and a need for care. Then there is also the requirement that care should continue to be provided over time and must necessarily be of a medical nature, when we also know that there is a whole range of benefits, such as physiotherapy or other types of benefits, which are not necessarily of a medical nature, but needing direct, continuous and permanent care. And then it would also be the subject of the termination of benefits...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u86	...—I am finished, President—to be strictly 18 years old, with which it is obvious that it is a legal matter, but that when I am 18 years old there is not necessarily a recovery, with which we are faced with a question which seems very fair to us to review. The initiative that we bring here today is the extension of the list of diseases referred to in the annex to this royal decree and the inclusion in the current list, as well as the serious cases that are in the process of diagnostic search. Just like an interpretation of what is direct, continuous and permanent care, since it's obvious that this I've just reported doesn't seem logical that it is. I, of course, am blessed that we have this unanimous agreement, and I hope it doesn't fall into a bag broken by who has to make the decision...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u88	...which is the Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u90	Thank you, President. Good morning. Today, there is no doubt that much of the political groups should conclude the agreements; the agreements are always a cause for celebration. In this case, from the Socialist Group we bless all the political groups that agree with this initiative and we believe that it is a good day for, among all, laying foundations for possible agreements on situations that change people's lives. We, from our perspective, know that you have previously put forward an initiative on this issue, but it seems to us a huge initiative that we make together, so we celebrate this possibility. I think we should all recognize each other some good things and some that I think we should improve, and it's a good day to mention them. And I wish this initiative had a two-way continuity. One, in agreements that may be in the necessary fields. And another, so that in this same sense, at this very point, this agreement will be extended where the decisions have to be made at the end, which is in the Congress of the Deputies and through the Government of Spain. We believe that this is a good opportunity and we hope that all the groups here today will agree at the end of the day — we are convinced that it will be so — in the light of the circumstances. We said they're sometimes small legal changes, but small legal changes often take great personal steps. Sometimes we debate and legislate about issues that sometimes seem like texts. But legal texts provide rights and give recognition of opportunities, and that changes people's lives in a huge way. You'll know, for sure -- you could read it and you could follow it as we could -- some personal cases, because the realities have people behind you. And we wanted to move here today, bring here this rostrum, in every case you can see, helped by this change that we hope will end well, Julia's case. Julia — which is a precise name — is the name of a 6-year-old girl with wonderful parents. Some parents who are here today and those we thank all of us, of course, who are able to do something that is even precious, that is to detect the cracks in the system and teach us that we have to be more agile, faster, more efficient. Andrés and Ines, who are an example of dedication, all they demand is that standards change lives, and that sometimes you have to understand far beyond legality: you have to understand the spirit of norms. That is the claim that we all understand that it is behind this request: go to the spirit of standards. Because spirit is what basically defends people's rights. It's impossible, impossible, impossible to recognize all situations through legal text, there will always be some space, and that's where politics is. The ability of politics to really interpret, in the will of people's rights, the realities. The ability to accompany realities and make them more complete. The ability to lead processes, even to transform them as today, in a small way in legal terms, but enormously in human terms, and we can do it through this initiative. For that is politics, to transform and contribute to giving legal will and legal transformation to desires, to the desires of people, who are often only right. Julia will probably know over the time that she has wonderful parents who teach us that this thing we do transform lives, and it's important that we be aware that those lives become the basis of agreements like these. That's why from our group we want to celebrate the agreement. From our point of view, this agreement has three objectives. One, or purely legal: modify the royal decree. We hope — as we say — that we are all in touch with the circumstances; we know that it may be possible. Then recognize that legality has empty spaces; recognize that not everything is paper, that without legality there is no system and that the system is what gives coverage and rights. But not only does the law exist, there is something beyond the will, among all, to build, on the basis of the law, a state that recognizes those rights and that can give opportunities. And thirdly, the need we have to be, of course, more agile, faster. There are examples of people with commendable efforts, with a will that is very difficult to understand — for those who have no children, it is impossible to understand, as much as we try to try — that these people's will is an increasingly small example because politics is able to make those transformations faster than some people can graciously endeavour to say that it has to be transformed. So from our group we want to thank all those who have made this initiative possible; all the groups who support it; the voices, who have undoubtedly had no doubt and who have mobilized themselves all; all those who have made it possible, and especially — if I may — to thank Andrés and Inés, so that they know that, from time to time, politics can give some advantages and recognize some rights. That they're rights, and therefore they're not politics or those we're here, but they're people we rule for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u91	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u92	Thank you, President. Welcome and welcome. A previous question. To remind the person who prepares the speeches to the president that we are no longer in franchise and that there are no union links, but that there are union delegates and union delegates. [[Applause]] For, indeed, as you have moved here, people with rare diseases are people who have many needs that are not covered by the Administration, that are within the care and work of families, and therefore the rights that are granted so that these families can exercise the care of these people are very important; I take care that on many occasions they would need more support from the Administration itself. As it has been moved, it is estimated that, according to the data provided by the World Health Organization of prevalence and incidence of different rare diseases, we could have between 200,000 and 300,000 cases in Galicia of the different rare diseases diagnosed so far, and even, surely, many still undiagnosed. Of course, our support for the Galician Federation of Rare and Chronic Diseases — which we have also met, like the rest of parliamentary groups — which has transferred us to the discrimination that constitutes the text of the Royal Decree 1148/2011, with great inaccuracy as to the definition of serious illness and not to include in this list of diseases which bring the actual decree itself many rare diseases that would even now remain out, and therefore with the impossibility of access to some of the benefits and subsidies that recognize the actual decree itself, and some other rights that grant the Government on the basis of membership or not to that list. Of course, as they have also transferred to us and have made reference — and I suppose also to the Group of the People's Party — to the members of the federation, those people, those children who are still in the process of being diagnosed and diagnosed, who for a long period are pending the care of the family, however, because they are not catalogued and diagnosed in any of these diseases, they cannot access the rights contained in the royal decree. Therefore, what is requested is of justice. I'm also glad that today we're going to get it out by an absolute majority and support the four groups, of course, is a joint proposal. And I take advantage of the intervention, despite thanking all the groups, including the majority group, who are also sensitive to supporting this initiative, to warn of two circumstances. The first one, that a non-law proposition, which is also addressed to the central government, is "free". Free to eat, understand. What we have to do now is demand the Central Government to meet and deal with in the Interterritorial Health Commission, and that this is not a mere bill that is approved in this House, but that what is approved here is done. We all know that there is, unfortunately, no obligation to comply with the LNP, so there must be a commitment not only from all the groups, but mainly from the majority group, because that is what the Government supports, that this will be transferred to the central government and that it will take effect as soon as possible. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, there is a circumstance which is not in the initiative but which has a lot of relation and is very relevant, which is clinical research, which is R & D+i. We're also talking about what has to do with the Health Act and that dependence on private interests. I'm not going to have discussions here about health law reform today, but it's a necessary reflection. When public research is lost, universality is lost, the Community's interest in health research has to take place. The problem of rare diseases on many occasions, and also of the rest, is that they depend to a large extent on the beneficence or charity or on the interests of companies, on many occasions there is great difficulty in getting clinical studies forward in treatment, prevention, detection and diagnosis. So it's just a relevant point that today is not within the initiative, but that it is also necessary to take into account. Nothing else, thank you very much. And thanking and congratulating the work of the federation, understanding that without it, of course, it is not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u94	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. I wanted to start by welcoming the people of Fegerec who are accompanying us in the rostrum. Thank you for your work. Without that work it would be impossible to bring this initiative to this Parliament today. I would also like to thank the speaker and the spokesmen of the other parliamentary groups for accepting this joint presentation, among all others, which called for the federation itself. Talking last turn has the problem that you can repeat things, but I wanted to reiterate that a rare disease is catalogized as such by the number of cases. There are fewer than five cases in every 10,000 inhabitants in Europe. Anyway, there's a lot of diseases. It's about 7,000 known, and it's even said that 7% of the population can be affected; with which, if we apply this statistic, the figures that were said here, up to 3 million people at the level of Spain. Of course, any one of us, at any time in our life, can suffer a rare disease. They actually have a hard diagnosis. It's estimated that the average diagnosis is around five years, although there's a lot of them that have no diagnosis. Science progresses, but not all can be diagnosed. Is this delay you're making? It produces absence of treatment, produces errors in the treatment and also causes worsening of the disease. The Galician Federation of Rare and Chronic Diseases represents many associations of families and patients of different pathologies, and has asked all groups to submit this initiative to request the Government of the State to amend the Royal Decree 1148/2011, referring to the economic provision of care for children affected by cancer or other serious illness. The current situation is considered unfair by Fegerec, although they recognize, indeed, that the decree constituted an important starting point for families with a child or child affected by a serious illness. The royal decree incorporates in an annex a closed list of those diseases that give entitlement to the benefit, which causes many rare or uncommon diseases, with enough gravity to generate this benefit, but which cannot be received by their families because that pathology is not included in the list of the royal decree. Similarly, it has also been said here that there are minors who are in the process of diagnosing serious paintings of rare diseases who also have no right to receive this care allowance for their family members, who have to reduce their working hours to help them. Fegerec believes that the fundamental element in assessing the right to benefits covered by the royal decree should be based primarily on developing criteria that define the direct, continuous and permanent care cited in the decree, being the person responsible for the centre, unit or medical service who values the circumstances of each particular case in response to the different needs of the decree. Guidelines of a general nature and universal application should not be established in the face of the multiplicity and variety of existing consequences, including in cases with the same diagnosis. There are people with multiple sclerosis who can make a normal life and people with multiple sclerosis who have a very serious impact. Or also in the face of the absence of this same diagnosis, which is a circumstance that we know is present in many cases of rare and chronic diseases. That is why Fegerec insists on the second point of this non-law proposal that it is specified that it is understood by direct, continuous and permanent care. They believe that a wider development of the rule could significantly reduce the long administrative or even judicial claim processes by applying criteria between all parties involved in this type of procedure. In addition to all the above, it seems to us a very appropriate time for the request of this amendment to the Government of Spain in front of the new appearance last week with the cock of the International Day of Child Cancer. President Rajoy has just announced the improvement in the provision of social security that facilitates the care of sick children; that is, the amendment of this decree. This commitment was also ratified by the Secretary of State for Social Security during an event organized on that date by the Association of Children's Parents with Cancer. The Government has just announced the extension of the coverage for parents of children with cancer or other serious diseases that reduce their work schedule, so it also covers the periods they need for the child's home care, and not only for hospital treatment. It also advanced the extension of the catalogue, from 110 diseases included today, to three more: bullying epidermolysis, Smith Magens' Syndrome and Behçet's Syndrome. This is where we believe that we could include today's unanimous and joint request from the Galician Parliament: the extension of the list of diseases referred to in the annex, including serious minority diseases and cases of gravity in diagnostic search processes, and the definition of what is meant by direct, continuous and permanent care. To reiterate once again the gratitude to Carme, Paca and to all the people of Fegerec who accompany us today and who have brought us this request for initiative. And to all groups for unanimous support and the joint presentation of this non-law proposal, which we consider important for sick people and their families and for their consideration by the Government of Spain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u95	Thank you. Interesting debate, I congratulate the spokesmen and the promoters who accompany us today. It was a good deal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the Greek feminism and the women's strike call scheduled for 8 March 2018 to claim equal opportunities in working conditions, in the social sphere and in the right to live without violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u96	This non-law proposal has an amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u97	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, there are reasons. This could be the headline that summarizes why the women of this world also since Galicia are going to take a step forward this March 8 in defending our rights and marking one before and one after a strike that will be a historic mobilization. It was the Mexican anthropologist and feminist Marcela Lagarde who coined the expression "to see equality". He made it in reference to that false equality in which we often believe we all live and all, because we know that the patriarchal system, fed by neoliberalism, is perfectly trained to hide and prolong inequalities, normalize them and create a fiction of equality in which it perpetuates itself. However, to nothing that we put on the lilac glasses and analyze the reality a little bit, it is clear that, while recognizing all that has been achieved in the last few decades, there is much to be done in absolutely all the plans of our life: in the work itself, but also in the sphere of care and consumption. That's why it's not a strike that we're used to in the workplace, but it's intended to transcend, and with a lot, the strictly labor area, also to break that association between work and employment, and also reaching out to the area of care and consumption. Faced with the consolidation of this mirrorism of equality, where hypocritically every 8th of March becomes a ritual date, in which institutions and political leaders and a part of society wash their conscience with declarations of intent rather than concrete actions, on this 8th of March we are going to contribute to a blow to the table and lead a commemoration that is different, that is transformative and that will without doubt have a turning point. If we look at history, we can easily check how no conquest was determined by chance. Each and every one of the achievements that we enjoy today are a fruit of the effort that we've had before us, also the right of the women we're here in this House representing the Greeks and the Greeks and having the right to vote. That was also conquered by brave women who in their day broke the corsets without asking anyone's permission. This strike is another collective effort that has its momentum also in recent and important facts of women's recent collective history, which we must not forget for its absolutely exceptional character. Among them, two historic mobilizations at the end of 2016: one in Poland, against the hardening of its abortion legislation in that conservative wave that is sweeping across Europe, and the other also in Argentina, one of the countries that has a higher rate of feminicides and that through the "No less" movement after the brutal murder of Lucía Pérez, has unleashed a strike. For Lucia and for each and every one of the women killed in this world, see also our recognition, remembrance and homage. [[Applause]] As early as 2017 since Latin America, a strike of women has been unleashed that has been taking more accessions throughout the planet; an unprecedented fact in the history of humanity that has made since here, from Galicia, social movements and feminist unions have worked in recent months to add our country towards this 2018 to have an effective and historical mobilization rather than merely symbolic and to transfer that call to both consumption and care, as well as to the workplace. Historically we know that after an expansion into women's rights there is always a phase of regression, and from Galicia, at this historic moment where what some call new misoxinia finds new forms of oppression disguised from that free choice theory, at this moment where the impact of the economic crisis has come to remain in the form of precariousness and affect us above all, women, at this time where the recentralization of the Spanish State also prevents us from being able to avoid the consolidation of this framework since the German self-government, we understand that at this historic moment, the Greek women have the responsibility, and also this House, to remove that carauta from pseudo-equality and work to combat the multiple discrimination we live in because we are women. That is why this strike responds to that responsibility at this historic moment and calls for stopping in all areas. And we insist, we know the reasons. Just by reviewing some of the issues, we could point out, for example, in the sphere of consumption, how patriarchal and capitalist logic ally and increase the creation of needs, increase the cost of products intended for women with that known as "red tax." Just by setting an example, a price comparison or online brands, "Ideal it," he analyzed more than 120 products known as fragrances, colonies and so on in the Spanish state. And you know what the conclusion was? For those who were objectively targeted to the public conceptualized as women had a price of up to 7% more; more than 60% of the fragrances they analyzed had a supplement simply because they were intended for female consumers. We could also talk about the imposition of body models, stereotypes that are impossible to comply with that affect women's health and self-esteem, or also about the promotion of macho roles through issues as elementary as children's toys. Either of us could enter a commercial toy and see how Fisher prices, a well-known brand, sell different building blocks for children and children. Something as elementary as stacking blocks is already introducing a biotechnology-based conceptualization, which is introducing differences from early childhood. We also have reason to be left behind in the area of care. A fundamental part of the processes that sustain life and that make the world turn happen in our homes, and mostly, and more after the economic crisis, on the back of women. Mothers, grandmothers, daughters and caregivers all devote, we dedicate, hours and hours of our lives to keep the world going, without anyone performing or remunerating that work. For example, it should be recalled that one of the few studies that exist on this matter, the satellite household production account, the Galego Institute of Statistics, on 2008, revealed, unveiled and estimated for 2008, that approximately that work, normally not computed, would have a value of 50% of the German GDP. And I also loved that it was the women we used to spend twice as many hours as men. And I insist, this data is already about 2008, but that decade of economic crisis has hit very negatively in this situation. That's why it's no wonder that we are women, who are mostly responsible for child or family care surpluses, and also for partial days. 22,500 women claim to work part-time to care for these tasks, while they only do so for that reason 1,100 men. And despite the fact that the EPA module for child care and employment relations was only introduced in 2010 -- which also gives an idea of the invisibility of this situation -- data gives a clear picture of the enormous differences in accountability. For example, if we look at how many people between 16 and 64 have left their jobs without considering the formula of surpluses, because we have as it were 14.56 women versus 1.77% men; seven times less. And he also tells us that many of them declare that this decision comes from the lack of care services or the price of those services. So there's a direct responsibility in the Galician Union, which is the administration that should provide those basic services. I don't have much time left. So I'm going to finish. I would like to stress that this is a situation that basically falls on women and that we also have reasons for remaining in the strictly working environment, because, according to the last published report, for example, by the technical staff of Fatda, Gesha, the pay gap for our country is 28.7%; more than 4,000 euros per year for women simply because we are the ones who accumulate greater temporality, greater partiality and greater work precariousness. The unemployment rate for women is higher than for men, and since the rule of Mr. Feijóo has increased to five points, an increase above 42%. We also insist on another issue that is absolutely relevant to us. In addition to suffering the consequences of the labour reforms of the Central Government, which are detrimental to the working class, and the neglect of the Galician and state union in labour policies to promote equality, the Greek women also suffer the absence of a framework of self-relationships that enables us to shield the professions that are clearly Welsh and feminized, as is the case with the conservation. All of this, while the public authorities disregard their functions. Just by placing a data, 0.1% of the 2017 labour inspection fines were on issues of gender and discrimination, an absolutely embarrassing figure. And this call also aims to put the emphasis on women wanting a life without fear and violence. Only with data from the Ministry of the Interior, of the first nine months of 2017 — which are the ones available — gives us a balance of a reported rape with penetration per week; one a week!, and we're talking only about those that have been reported. How many others remain silent!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u99	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u100	I'm done. Our country has a background story of strong women who have marked history to defend our rights, from Castro's Rosalía – to whom we will pay tribute next Saturday, February 24, – to women like the Encrobas, and other more recent struggles, such as those of all those women who planted toward the richest man in the world, starring Bershka's strike. So this Parliament and the women of this country have to be up to this historic moment and add voices in favour of this strike, which will mark one before and one after, and bring it also to debate this House, because even though we have to take the streets on March 4th and March 8th, it is also time for issues such as this to lead the debates in this House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u102	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a resolution which proposes that the Galician Parliament should first express the recognition of German feminism and, secondly, the support of the women's strike call on 8 March. It happens, ladies and gentlemen, that the manifesto that gives rise to this strike mixes ideological issues that we understand are not the most suitable to defend feminism and much less the achievement of full equality. You can read things like: "We call to break the privileges of a patriarchal, capitalist, racist, and heteronormative society." "Wars are the product and extension of patriarchy and capitalism." "We shout against savage neoliberalism which is imposed as a single thought." It seems, ladies and gentlemen, that the aim is to defend feminism by attacking capitalism, e.g. by obviating, for example, the limitation of women's rights in many countries such as Cuba, Venezuela, South Korea, Afghanistan or the People's Republic of China, which, with a communist government, is one of the most discriminated against by women. I was talking to Mrs. Presas about sexual violence. In China, five activists who proposed, who were proposing -- they were merely proposing -- a protest about sexual abuse in public transport, were imprisoned, with a communist government. Therefore, Mrs. Presas, the patriarchal system is not only fueled by capitalism. [[Applause]] After considering the call, we cannot support the strike convened for the following reasons from the People's Parliamentary Group. First, it's a strike that bets by the confrontation between women and men, and we will only achieve equality from unity and co-responsibility between women and men, because equality is not just one thing of women, it's a matter of all, and as long as we don't incorporate men into care, co-responsibility and domestic work, Mrs. Presas, we will hardly achieve full equality. [[Applause]] It's an insolidary elitist strike. It's unusual for self-employed women, because they can't close their company; it's rude for women to care for, because they can't stop taking care of the people they care for, because if they don't, who's going to do it? It's an irresponsible strike, because it's a frivolity and an irresponsibility to shift gender-based violence to a general strike, especially after the majority agreement between political forces, public administrations, trade unions and women's associations in the State Covenant against gender-based violence. Here in Galicia, all the forces that we are part of this House provide a document with measures to incorporate the State Covenant which we unanimously approve. To break this unit by trying to see a problem visible in the strike, which is indeed there, I also tell you that this is not the most appropriate way right now to defend women who suffer from gender-based violence, Mrs Presas. Because, look, it's irresponsibility that you do all the time, which is to transfer to the victims of gender-based violence that there are no resources to assist them. Every day, every moment, every time you talk about equality, they say there's no resources for these women. We heard it again last week in the Equality Committee. Yes, Mr. Presas, you were there, and you know that all those people who pass through that commission, many people who pass through there -- and you support these words -- say that women have no resources for gender-based violence, and that's absolutely false. I remind you, Your Honor, that not even the organizing groups agree on how to materialize this demand for equality. There are collectives who only support women's call, general strike, 24 hours, call on women to stop the world and call on them to stop their consumption, care at home and education, something you just supported here. Others only support general unemployment of 24 hours and others, such as UXT or the Workers' Commission, support partial unemployment of two hours per shift for women and men. In the media we find very disparate headlines: "The trade unions decaffee the feminist strike of March 8th." "The nurses will not go to the feminist strike on March 8th; the patients are primal." Ladies and gentlemen, in a professional collective as feminized as the nurses, who don't attend the March 8 strike, it's absolutely amazing, ladies. We agree with the SATSE that only the strike doesn't solve the problems, and unemployment and strike must be the last resort. We defend the claim and work daily to achieve equality through public policies and employability. On 8 March at the PP we will celebrate the achievements that have been achieved, and we are committed to eliminating the barriers that women still find to achieve real equality in their day, generating jobs — today almost 30% of women who leave unemployment in Europe are Spanish — and women's promotion in the workplace. I asked Mrs. Presas to make the joint commitment to conciliation. You forgot, Your Honor, what Mr. President explained to you this morning in the question. I know you don't like it, but the Bono Care, the Bono Concilia, the schools in industrial polygons, the day-to-day centres for older people, the nesting houses, more family support... that's, that's, the People's Party. When they ruled, they didn't have those measures, did they? Surely, but you don't say that there are no resources and that the Union is not betting on co-responsibility. I'm done, explaining my amendment. We do not support this strike for the reasons I have just put forward, but we support, we support and we will help to identify the challenges we have to overcome, and we will continue to demand equal opportunities, making positive proposals, proposals that will improve the situation of women. That is why we tabled this amendment, with concrete measures that favour issues such as equal access to employment, the strengthening of the association movement, especially in rural areas, the establishment of new resources for the reconciliation of personal and labour life, the intensification of the work of the Labour Inspectorate and Social Security, to end these difficulties that women have, precisely with that pay gap, because it is already illegal for a woman to cover less than a man in Spain, but it must be denounced, and we call for the Labour Inspectorate to intensify that work. We also present in the amendment an initiative that is to ask the Galician Council to make a particular accusation in crimes of discrimination as a result of the woman's motherhood. The political leaders, Your Honor, do not ask us to support the problems of citizenship, which they also ask us to put on political measures and real measures to solve them. Participating in a strike that has an obvious partyist and ideological will will not improve the situation of women. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u104	Thank you, President. The Socialist Party is the feminist left party. We recognize ourselves in the various achievements that, throughout socialist governments, have been achieved in our country in the field of gender equality, but at the same time we also agree on the path that we still have to take to eradicate the machismo which continues to permeate all areas of our society. There cannot be a truly democratic society unless we are able to eliminate the macho behaviors and attitudes that attack more than half the population. Machism, the fruit of the patriarchate most ranciful and most prejudicial to women, extends in all fields, from family, social and labor, to the most cruel of manifestations, such as gender violence against women. A society free of machismo is our goal and one of our identity signs. For this reason, and on the occasion of the March 8 commemoration, since the PSOE again we stand for a real social change which implies a profound structural transformation in which women are protagonists and co-participants at all. Socialism has always been at the forefront of equality policies, and in this country, and in this sense in the field of work, we have made a firm and strong commitment through our proposal at the Congress of Laws on Wages and Employment Equality; laws that aim to respond and contribute to eliminating the different situations of discrimination women have in access to employment, to the promotion of work, to the pay divide, together with precariousness and temporality, among other issues that constitute the backbone of women's labour inequality. In this sense, we add ourselves to the actions marked by the two majority unions, UXT and Workers' Commissions, supporting the proposed 2-hour unemployment in the 8th of March as a measure of awareness and demand in the generalized situation of labour inequality that women have and in the face of all inequalities that affect the status of women in our country, because women have suffered and continue to suffer to a greater extent the consequences of the crisis, because women have an average annual gain of about 6 points less than men, because women's share of work is about 10 points lower than men's, because women's unemployment rate is four points above men's, because part-time work in women represents about one third more than men's, because women's wages are averaged at 23% at the expense of women's wages, because women's employment rates are reduced to the highest number of men, which increases, because women's pensions are lower than women. For all these reasons, and ultimately because despite progress in equality policy, serious gender discrimination and gender stereotypes continue to persist, which prevent women from participating in equal conditions, on 8 March and every day of the year they must make us reflect on the society as a whole about the reality women have in our country and how we contribute from the different political, institutional and government spheres to the necessary measures to change this reality. Because social progress will not be achieved if women's talents and abilities are not recognized in the different spheres of society, as well as their contribution to the economic and social development of our country. For all this, it is urgent to address by law measures to eradicate historical discrimination that have conditioned and condition the lives of women, especially all employment and working life. The Socialist Party's commitment is to women, and so on March 8 we continue to demand and support the fundamental role of women's organizations and political feminism. March 8 cannot be and will not be just a date of commemoration of an international day, it is and it will be a historic and key date in the struggle of feminism, and for the Socialist Party and for millions of women in the world this date is above all a day of struggle, of awareness and awareness of the whole society; awareness of the path that we still have to resort to achieve real and effective equality between men and women, and awareness that it is clear that some groups have, but that others, such as the People's Party, have neither yet to be expected. For all this, we strongly support this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u106	Thank you, good morning. The truth is that today Mrs Prado has surpassed all the interventions I think we have heard in this House. It's hard to do more demagogy and twist the arguments that have been put here to strike. Just two notes, and then I'm going to focus on what's really important. There are many nurses who will stop. I'm a nurse and I have many companions who I can assure you will stop this 8 March. Irresponsibility is not of any Member, nor of any movement, nor of any association, that... let me speak, that you have already spoken. [[Madam Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived and shown a writing.]] Irresponsibility is not the people who denounce insufficient resources, the only irresponsibility is the people and governments who don't make these resources available to women victims of macho violence. That's the true irresponsibility. [[Applause]] And if they want to involve men in co-responsibility, if they want to involve them, then they stop making videos like the Welcome Card, where the only ones looking after are women. Is that how they want to involve co-responsibility, making videos where the only caregivers are women? [[Applause]] That's the co-responsibility of the People's Party. But, as I said, what is fundamental and what we are talking about today is that, of course, we will support this proposal. The March 8 feminist strike is going to be a very important mobilization. And it's important to note that in the vanguard of this mobilization who is the feminist movement, and it goes all recognition, as Mrs. Presas also mentioned, to all those women who have been fighting for many years. Today the president was asked why we made this call this year and not other years. This is totally false. Many women have been mobilising and denouncing what we have to suffer from just being women; what happens is that this year we have more strength, and that's really what bothers them, what they worry about, that we are more and more women than we are going to conform to living in a world crossed by inequalities. That's why we're taking a break this year, and, as I said, last year we also stopped, and many years ago we were on the streets mobilising and denouncing. The statements made by both Mrs. Prado and Mr. Feijóo, as well as Mrs. Cifuentes, which spoke of the well-founded reasons for this strike, beyond political wear, are an insult because there are many reasons that have nothing to do with the political wear of any political organization. It's an insult to all the women who keep working, paying less for the same jobs as men. These are the well-founded reasons, many have been mentioned. Does it seem to you that it's little reason that women continue to have more precarious jobs, that we work longer hours, that we work inside and outside the house, that 20% of the waged women in Greece work part-time and men less than 6 percent? And it's not by personal choice, it's by obligation. And we work outside with worse conditions, but above all we work within a very majority, and we continue to take care of the work. And you don't talk about it, you talk about co-responsibility. But what valuation makes approximately 70% of the work of care unique and exclusively done by women? Do you think you're right enough to stop women from having a 38% lower pension than men? It seems to us that these are the reasons that really call us to mobilize this 8th March. There's no political wear on a political organization. We're sick of continuing to work for wages with which we often can't even meet the minimum material needs. We also wanted to acknowledge this work, which, as it was also commented, is invisible and not valued. All this work must be valued, because without it or public services, not even our own life, it would continue to develop normally. That's why the amendment of the People's Party and the interventions look like a joke, and more than a joke, almost an insult. We can imagine listening, as I said, to the recent statements, not only of Mrs Cifuentes, but also of Rajoy, and also after the debate of the Pay Equality Act presented yesterday, but it really seems to us a shame that continues to twist the arguments in this way, because the reasons, as I say, are very much. But, in fact, we understand that they don't support this strike, because it's true that this strike also challenges the policies of cuts applied in recent years; it also challenges them. So, of course, this strike is also against governments that have been looking elsewhere for many years in the face of a situation of extreme inequality. We also stop because we want to decide about our body, and the People's Party doesn't want women to decide freely about when or not to abort, and we want to abort in the public as well. So, actually, it makes a lot of sense that they don't support this feminist strike, but don't say they defend equality, because also one of the reasons for this strike is to do it for all who are no longer. In the last nineteen years, 62 women were murdered in Galicia, and we'll keep shouting, of course, "We want to live!" There's a lot of reasons. Political wear is not what moves women to stop this 8 March. This March 8th what we want to put on the table and what we're going to put on the table, whether they want or not, is that, if the women stop, the world stops. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u108	I would like to begin by thanking the Group of En Marea and the Group of the Socialist Party for their support for this initiative, and also to take advantage of our voice at this time to launch a gratitude and recognition — especially a recognition — to all of the feminist groups throughout the country, who are working for the success of the March 4 rally in Vigo — that we are convinced that it will be a success, as was that historic mobilization against counter-reforming abortion in Vigo too, as well as to all the groups that are working for the success of this strike on March 8. [[Applause]] Because, regardless of whether we as a political organization have our bilateral relationship with some of them in particular, despite the differences, we understand that it is important the heterogeneity of sum that they are making, that that will be the key to our success and that we can move forward collectively. On the issues that the spokesperson of the People's Party, who were diverse, man! for it is a pity that when Mr. Feijóo visited China he had not remembered the situation of the Chinese women. We believe that the patriarchy actually takes place in absolutely all economic systems, in absolutely all contexts, but it is the chance that we are in 2018, in Galicia and in capitalism, and the somewhat empirical-intellectual debate is already in the stage of being born to human beings or biological beings. [[Applause]] Indeed, we share the thought that it is in all economic systems, but what should concern you is the country that you govern. And yes, they discovered the gunpowder again from the People's Party, because there's ideology, of course, because when you imposed from the state that counter-reform of the Abortion Law to prevent that right, it wasn't ideology, it was that someone in the People's Party woke up one day and so on. That was ideology, and it was also, fortunately, ideology, organization, response and popular capacity, when feminism was able to promote historical mobilizations throughout the state that made you have to correct. [[Applause]] Well, they'll have to correct -- I'm sorry to tell you -- with a lot more things in the next few years. I love, too, the argument that everything is so good that, of course, caregivers won't be able to go on strike. But don't you realize that's a symptom? What exactly is the weight that falls on so many caregivers is a symptom and what should worry them is that you yourself assume the responsibility that it would be irresponsibility for them to go to strike for themselves is also a symptom? I didn't want to mention a question you said, either, which was the state pact. It's just that for the BNG the state pact is one more argument to strike. Because, look, it's been over half a year since they signed it, and they had a two-month deadline to implement legislative changes, and how many are going on? C-o-o! Zero legislative changes. And how much budget is there on the table? [[Applause]] The budget executed? [[Applause]] Ce-ro! Sky! It was worth this covenant for a minister to announce it before it was approved and to wash his face, only and exclusively. And we're with that pinkwarshing feminism that you're applying from the institution because we don't agree. _Resist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u109	About the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u110	On the amendment, of course, we do not accept it. If you want to implement those changes, they have tools to do it, but they distort the sense of initiative. In any case — I insist — you apply the story and at least apply your own laws.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u112	To insist, again, on matters that have already come out here, like the Consortium workers. You have a crime that you insist on the plate where Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u114	...and that we have to insist that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u116	...they're preventing them from conciliating. Or that not even with Fraga and Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u118	...there are more children's schools...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u119	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u120	...the ones that developed the Bipartite.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u122	And it's also alarming...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u124	...that only involve the March 8 debate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u125	Your time is over, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u126	...at birth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u128	...and the reproductive role of women.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u129	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u130	That should be checked, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u131	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and three other Members, on the adoption by the Greek Government of the measures necessary to avoid unequal treatment between fixed and temporary self-employed public employees, in accordance with the doctrine of the Court of Justice of the European Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u132	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the proposal has the floor Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u133	Yes, thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. In some ways we will continue to talk about problems and policies of equality in the labour market and also about policies and problems of conciliation, in this case in public employment. But they do not cease to be global policies, too, which affect the question of work and equality of women and men in these areas. And we bring this House, we bring this plenary, the problem that raises a recent Constitutional Court ruling. It is precisely because it is the Constitutional Court that we bring to this plenary session, and sometimes it is not a question of bringing initiatives that try to investigate individualised conflicts in the field of justice, but on the basis of the Constitutional Court's rulings, on the basis of a matter born in the sphere of the autonomous administration of Galicia, it seems to us that they reflect the measures which at the time took by the Council of Galicia are not in favour, precisely, of equality policies or conciliation policies, but, precisely, of the contrary. This is a judgment — as we know and know, ladies and gentlemen — of December 2017, dictated in a remedy, precisely, of protection, promoted by two psychologist workers of the former Labour and Wellness Council — currently the Social Policy Council — with the aim of ensuring and demanding, precisely, reconciliation measures of their working and family life by the exchange of their jobs, one job was in Lugo and the other in Ourense. And the Constitutional Court grants protection by acknowledging to the most workers this right, as precisely as it had done the Orense Social Court itself in the first instance. They understand the judgments, both of the courts of the Social and the Constitutional Court itself, the right of workers, precisely, against the pronouncements of the Galician Council that prevented this permutation of jobs. By the way, these judicial resolutions — both the judgements of the Social Court and the Constitutional Court — invoke the very doctrine of the Court of Justice of the European Union. And when he interpreted — as we know and have discussed on one occasion — clause 4.1 of the Directive of 28 July 1999, considering that workers with fixed-term contracts cannot, without objective justification in terms of comparability, be treated less favourably than fixed workers in comparable situations, as I say. And we will see that this doctrine of the Court of Justice of the European Union also brought it to this plenary at the end of 2016 on precisely the basis of the recognition of the right to compensation for the termination of temporary employment contracts. So the People's Party did not support our initiative, which was based precisely on the fact that there was a group of experts appointed by Minister Fatima Báñez. That group of experts, by the way, has already issued their dictates. But legal measures to bring forward the fulfilment of the doctrine of the Court of Justice of the European Union are still to be developed by the Central Government. In this case, the Constitutional Court recognises, as I say, the temporary workers of the Galician Union who challenged the decisions of the Labour Council's right to the exchanges requested, in that it is understood that Article 17 of this House and what we will continue to talk about, of the V Single Collective Convention on Self-Employment must be interpreted in accordance with Community legislation, which prohibits, precisely, differences in treatment between fixed staff and employees. Let's remember that this issue affects a large number of temporary workers in the Galician Union, well-advised advisors of autonomous bodies. But it's in a very intense way that affects a group of working women basically from Galician union. There are currently 3,000 temporary jobs in the Council of Galicia and autonomous bodies, but two thirds are women, with whatever measure, any application of these constitutional doctrines or of the doctrines of the European Union courts, are precisely focusing on the work of women also in the workplace of the Council of Galicia. And there are three or four questions from the very content of the judgment which I would like to point out, because I believe that, precisely, they contextualize, speaking, in addition — and because of previous initiatives or even the control session to the President of the first hour of this session — that they are precisely linked to all the problems that we are discussing about measures in the field of equal work for men and women. And in this case the plaintiffs were also observing a certain discrimination, precisely — as I say — by reason of sex, since mobility is the target of women, who mainly assumes the role of reconciliation in working life and family life. The Constitutional Court admitted this appeal for amparo, considering that it was in the same way a special constitutional transcendence, because in this particular matter there was no pronouncement of this high court. Therefore, even in view of the judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia, it considered it necessary first to admit the appeal and, secondly, to estimate it. We have to consider, too, two circumstances which I believe also frame and contextualize this case, as it was that these two workers, psychologists of the Galician Union — who were working interimly both, one in Lugo and the other in Ourense — were, of course, asking for this permut for conciliation reason, because one of them had to care for his very older parents and the other worker — the other psychologist of the Galician Union — was a single mother with a lesser charge. I mean, we're not talking about whimsical permutations, but we're talking about the need, clearly, of two workers in the same category to swap jobs, vacated both, without precisely altering the functioning of services and to reconcile, precisely, their working life and their family life. And the two workers, by the way, have achieved judicial recognition of their indefinite employment situation, as it cannot be otherwise. And the Supreme Court itself of Justice of Galicia, after a first opposing judgment, has also changed its opinion. The Prosecutor's Office, also in this appeal for amparo, made its allegations of interest to the Constitutional Court precisely in the granting of protection for violation of the constitutional right to equality enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution. It's data that I think is relevant. But it is that the Council of Galicia, apart from first dismissing the request for an exchange on the part of the two workers of the current Council of Social Policy, apart from making this first absolutely restrictive interpretation, in the arguments it presented in its own remedy, argued that collective rights of equality, merit and capacity in access to public employment must be preceded by the conciliation rights claimed by the applicants under protection. And this is an absolutely false argument, as he has treated and demonstrated and believed and dismantled the Constitutional Court. They are absolutely compatible principles and principles cannot be used precisely to counter them against others when the aim of the measures was precisely conciliation. Let us bear in mind that even — and I will conclude — the collective convention itself in Article 17 — which is the subject of discussion and interpretation — establishes mechanisms for the Galician Union to succeed in carrying out exchanges or rotations which it can carry out with the labour force of other autonomous communities. If so, why was the Galician Union not able to bring together the Joint Committee on the Collective Convention? To bring forward an interpretation — not an extensive interpretation, but a real interpretation — which has been adopted by the Court of Justice of the European Union and, as it has now shown by the Constitutional Court itself, of necessary application. We would like in this case that the People's Group — which supports the Government of Greece and, of course, that it is responsible for encouraging these initiatives to the Government of Greece too — to tell us in what terms they are interpreting or applying these judgments of the Constitutional Court and in what terms they are considering regulatoryly adapting the Fifth Collective Convention to the Community Doctrine indicated. That is why the Socialist Parliamentary Group urges the German Government, and in this case we call on the People's Party to take all necessary measures to avoid unequal treatment between autonomous and fixed public employees in accordance with the doctrine of the Court of Justice of the European Union and in accordance with the rulings of the Constitutional Court. We have no amendment on the part of the People's Group, either because it will obviously support this initiative to effectively comply with the doctrine of the European courts and with the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, or because it will reject it, as on other occasions, by failing to comply precisely with the judgments of the courts. And, above all, by failing to comply with the necessary equality and conciliation policies. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. On behalf of the rest of the groups, Mr Bará Torres has the floor of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. This case, this judgment of the Constitutional Court, to us, is symbolic and exemplary, even saying that it is exemplary in relation to the social and labour discrimination suffered by women — which has a great deal to do with the previous debate. And also with regard to the role played by the Galician Union by acting by principle of office, by the civilian and by what is necessary, against the rights of workers and workers; rolling these rights, restricting them, suspending them indefinitely, as we saw yesterday in the debate on Law 1/2012, of temporary measures in the field of public employment. And this is not an isolated case, part of a general political decision with regressive and even repressive policy guidelines that have as their main executive arm the General Public Service Directorate, and which has at most Mr. José María Barreiro responsible. In any case, there is a higher responsibility for Mr. Feijóo's president. And this is part of an ideological program to attack public services, workers and workers in the public sector, among other things, to promote the interests of the private sector. Not only for this, but, among other reasons, for this. And the workers and the workers of Justice know well, more than 2,500 people who have been on strike for eleven days, a unit strike, a majority strike for their work rights and against the wage discrimination they suffer. Days of struggle, too, against the lies of the Galician Union, against that wall of misunderstanding and pre-powering of the Government of Greece, and for this reason since the BNG we again make, once again, a call for external, independent mediation, which we propose to be the president of the Galego Council of Labour Relations, because it was in that framework where progress was achieved, and how is the negotiated negotiation achieved we think there is no other way out than that external mediation, and at the same time we ask — and we do so here in Parliament — the termination of the Director General of the Civil Service, Mr. Barreiro, as the most responsible of that closure and of that power of the Greek Government. And you know, too, in addition to the workers of Justice, the staff of the Galician Union, more than 12,000 people, especially of Social Policy, of the Rural and Environmental Environment, who have suffered over these years, also continuing wage and labor cuts, and in addition they suffer continued denials of the right to conciliation — as our spokesperson said earlier — with judgments contrary to the German Government of Social Justice and Galicia's Supreme Court itself in cases of requests for conciliation, for example. This, therefore, is a case of a book of labour discrimination, social discrimination and, also, of discrimination that women suffer, therefore, because women are the protagonists of this sentence, because they have temporary jobs, therefore have more precarious, worse paid jobs, because they have to care for family care, and because they also suffer these obstacles to conciliation on the part of the Greek Government that makes this interpretation absolutely restrictive, regressive, repressive, and repressive legal framework. And the Constitutional Court makes it clear because it says that in the event of a collision between law and fundamental rights, they must always take over fundamental rights, and here they haven't been applying this criterion, because what the Galician Union did was to set up trappings and going around, deny, and they've had to suffer these two workers a three-year process to finally give them the reason the Constitutional Court, which used those arguments that have already been cited here, essentially one that has to do with non-discrimination between regular and temporary workers and workers. There is no reason for such discrimination as there are collective agreements that say what they say, both the European regulatory framework and the constitutional framework prevail. Moreover, they say that this difference in treatment has already aggravated the previous situation of discrimination and inequality suffered by workers because of temporality, and they say that there is another argument also in order to justify the judgment, which is the need for reconciliation of working and family life, which, as we have seen in this case, basically rests on women. So it's a sentence that is a hard correction to Galician social and labor policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u136	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u137	...which establishes a clear jurisprudence and legal framework in this regard, which must be the starting point, the turning point for an absolute change, for a complete change of the legal framework of the social and labor legislation of the Galician Union. And we don't want to have to tell the lords and ladies of the People's Party to meet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u138	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u139	...the Constitution and which apply these advanced, progressive and equal criteria. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea to Mrs. Santos Queiruga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we are faced with a very sad situation which repeats itself unceasingly, that justice and, in this case, the highest organ of our institutional system, the Constitutional Court, give the interiors and interim reasons why they deny the Union and the Government of the State, which is currently headed by the People's Party charged. One day the People's Party governments will apply the story to that great flag that leads to the law being applied to the justice of their own laws, for example, and to those which are so gallant. But he's already saying, "counsels seeing that I don't have it for me." European justice has also recognized the right of workers and temporary workers to receive compensation in the event of dismissal. As early as 2016, the European Union Court of Justice stated that Spanish labour law discriminated against the interiors and the interiors, a single court which criticized the abuse by the People's Party Administration — defendant — of the figure of the interim staff or substitute to make up the structural deficits of the workers and workers of the public issue. Despite European judgments, the reality is that in our country the interiors and the interiors continue to be discriminated against. Here's another example. Now we have not only precarious officials and employees and precarious public servants, but now we have administrative and interim personnel who are extra-prececary and extra-preprececary. The two workers mentioned in the PSdeG initiative also suffered discrimination on gender issues, but fortunately justice gave them the reason, both of them had the same category and professional classification, they daily carried out the same but inverse manner, from Ourense to Lugo, as already explained. The two had to take care of their families — it has also been explained that they already have the aggravating effect that they always have these issues in women — and for this they needed to be closer to the family, so they asked for a permutation of their jobs denied by the Union but supported by the Constitution in the light of the European doctrine already mentioned; for the People's Party to talk about Industry 4.0 and other very modern, very European issues, although there is no famous Industry 1.0, that for marketing it works, but to apply what is European jurisprudence, so they don't like it so much. Also since our group in the Commission 1st in fact already denounced this situation, Comrade Eva Solla and asked the director general of the Public Service — also famous for the last few days, very famous for the conflict with Justice that she is managing so well — and on February 17, 2017, Junta again denied discrimination for not allowing the temporary staff to be exchanged, and the director general of the Public Service justified by hanging, supposedly, on the law that this kind of permission could not be applied to the Acting Staff; however, we see that later the clothes are torn when the law does not give them the reason and when they are told that their party uses a maleistic argumentary. Well, in the end, the facts are the ones that put each one in his place, and what the People's Party should do, because they claim to be a constitutionalist party, is to apply the dictates of the Constitutional Court, coherence, which abide by this doctrine as well as the European judgments and recognize to the staff the same rights as those enjoyed by people with an indefinite contract with the Administration and who comply with the law, while returning the stolen rights to all staff of the Administration, everything, and it's not just extra and other payments, free days, discounts on their salaries for IT, social action funds to help their families and their children... The Parliamentary Group of En Marea also presented a series of questions about the judgment against the Union that recognized, for the first time in Spain, the right to compensation to an acting official, in this case a teacher after his termination for 20 days a year employed. That the Council of Galicia was the first public entity to be condemned in that state all over the world says much of the precariousness of work in self-employment and in the real policy of the Galician PP, where more than 3,000 jobs have already been lost in the public sector at the Greek level in the last eight years, of which 2,000 have been in non-university teaching, and that in addition to the point is the absolute precariousness of public work in an alarming way, not only in the private sector, where they are the Champions League for their labor measures. The European Union had to intervene by means of the large number of temporary contracts that accumulate the interim and interim contracts for compensation at the end of the same period. But you replied that you had to comply with the law, that the interns had no right. Ladies and gentlemen, the interiors had no right to trienniums and the rule was changed because it was discriminatory, by setting them another example.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u143	So, in the face of the various actions that are directly and indirectly affecting and are promoting their model of precarious public employment and private employment, and above all they are being noted in the educational and health field, please stop making demagogy about the salaries of public employees, mainly millionaires, who today we know we have a low cost government, which is incredible, apart from entrepreneurial...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u144	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u145	...and please stop looking elsewhere, saying they're committed to the public and to conciliation and rights, because their political practice proves everything else. Prove with this initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u147	...that the opposition is really wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos. Mr Moreira Ferro has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Santos, we don't have a low cost government, which is true that first class governments ended on March 1, 2009. [[Applause]] I want to start by saying that in relation to this case, a timely case of two interim workers who asked for a permutation in the heart of the Fifth Convention, it must be said that here the Council of Galicia did only comply with the V Convention, which says in Article 17. And Article 17 restricts the changes to fixed, non-temporary workers. And this article is the result of an agreement by the Government of the Union with the union forces. The V Convention was an agreement with the trade union forces, and so Article 17 was initialled, and so it was agreed. And the Galician Union is bound to comply with the agreement with the unions, and that's what was done in this case. So let me ask you, Mr Villoslada, that, of course, there is a paragraph in that article that allows you to explore the possibilities of interchange with other autonomous communities. And you say, well, if you're allowed with other autonomous communities, why aren't you allowed within the same autonomous community? That's what I want to know, Mr Villoslada, because this agreement, this agreement, was signed in 2008. So he was signed by a government of his party. You will be the one who will have to explain to us, to all of us and these two workers, why the agreement does not include the possibility that temporary workers could have the same rights, that's the thing of the Bipartite. The current Government is bound to comply with the agreement. And then, Mr. Villoslada, indeed, came out of the Constitutional Court's judgment which gives the reason to these two workers, but you twist the sentence, you and the other spokespersons, because they are starting to talk about a case of discrimination here because of sex. Nothing like that, nothing like that! There is no mention of discrimination on the grounds of sex. Moreover, the Constitutional Court's own judgment makes it clear that indirect discrimination on the grounds of sex is inadmissible as a ground of challenge. She doesn't come to appreciate that, because she doesn't talk about sex at any time, or at the convention. The differentiation is to be a fixed or temporary worker. But you want to read it all and twist it, just as you were here yesterday in this very session of the plenary trying to confuse, making it clear that Law 1/2012 was the one that suppressed the extra payments. Terrible barbarity, isn't it? That's right. That law does not suppress any extra pay, but you say it and the base of the axe is silent, but that's not true. And with this sentence they do the same, there's no discrimination on the grounds of sex. And what the judgment does is to say that the appellants charge discrimination — and so I said the judgment — they charge discrimination against the conventional precept. He doesn't say that the Board has acted badly, says that what is challenged is the precept. And the precept that it is? That's what was set in the deal with the union forces by a government of his party, but I don't want to go in there anymore. So you keep twisting everything. And what we're looking at is whether this article -- which is not the general director's business, but it was an agreement with the unions -- could produce some kind of discrimination, but not on the basis of sex, but on the matter of distinguishing temporary fixed workers. This sentence makes it clear again, reiterates that the right to equality does not mean to treat everyone the same. The constitutional right to equality means that equal and unequal treatment must be treated. That's right, and you know it, Mr. Villoslada. And on their own legal grounds, they refer to that. And the judgment itself says that there must be a requirement in each individual case, and it must be said that this judgment refers to a single case, that it is not applicable automatically to the rest of the cases, that it must be seen whether there is a valid comparison term and that the trial of equality requires checking whether the situations that are intended to be compared are equal or similar; and it examines the nature of the work provided, says that in this case it is equal the training requirements of those who provide them, says that in this case they coincide, and the working conditions, which say that they are also elements typified by a consolidated jurisprudence of the European Court. And then there is also objective and reasonable justification for the treatment, and the Constitutional Court considers that in this case there is not sufficient justification in that precept, nor in the decision of the Director General, which is limited to applying the precept, because that precept does not properly justify such discrimination, which in certain cases needs to be analysed on a case-by-case basis. And finally, I concluded that in this case there was a kind of discrimination that had to be overcome, but in this case on time. What I want to tell you is that the Galician administration is respecting and implementing the pact with trade union organizations and the Government of the Union. What you can't do, Mr. Villoslada, is break the deal on your day unilaterally without counting again on a negotiation with the unions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u150	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u151	...don't ask the Director General of the Galician Civil Service Board to violate the agreement agreed with the unions, because you'd come here to say that the Director General is not meeting the union agreement, I'm convinced that he would. And it seems therefore unnecessary to us and even I believe that it is trendy, because of the doubts that it can generate, to ask that all necessary measures be taken in its proposal to avoid unequal treatment between public employees, because it is already being done, Mr. Villoslada, it is already avoiding discrimination, and this is a case...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u153	... where the Union does what it does is to apply a prescribed precept with the unions, the ruling sets out an article, not the Director General or the Board, and here too bear in mind that the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia also gave reason to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u154	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u155	So we're going to vote against it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor by the non-legislational panel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u157	Yes, thank you. Mr. Moreira, I don't know if it's low cost or first class, but you're the same as the term that approaches them most is business, in that sense you'd better not follow those lines. But it seems to me — and I am telling you again about other interventions which were made on the basis of the debates that were being debated on the derogation from Law 1/2012 — that come here to tell us that it is a matter of breaking the treaty when Law 1/2012 unilaterally suspends certain provisions of the collective agreement in an absolutely unilateral way and that it is no longer supported, it seems to me to be an exercise, as I have said earlier, of important cynicism. [[Applause]] The ruling — and I want to be brief — of the Constitutional Court does indeed estimate the appeal for protection, and that appeal for protection is to give the workers the reason in their right, which has been denied by the Directorate-General for Public Service. The General Directorate of the Civil Service does not apply an automatism, makes an application of a rule, of a rule in this conventional case, a conventional standard agreed between the company and the workers, such as the collective agreement, whether there is Community jurisprudence or constitutional jurisprudence, has to be interpreted and adapted, is a legal mechanism that you know better than me. So, what we are asking is that the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the pronouncements of the Community doctrine be incorporated into the regulatory framework and the framework of collective agreements, in this case in the field of autonomous administration. They have the opportunity to do so, not an individual case, but to implement employment equality policies between fixed and temporary, indeed, in terms of comparability, and to take forward the corresponding legislative measures. It should be noted that our GNP is asking — no less or more — for the Government of Greece to take the necessary measures to avoid unequal treatment between the two types of employees working in the Galician Union, fixed and temporary in terms of comparability. Because what is true — and it is true — is that as it has demonstrated its own Law 1/2012, the collective Convention has quite broken seams. The collective agreement must be recovered in its terms, it must be renegotiated, it must be revised, among other things, to incorporate, precisely, the new constitutional jurisprudence and Community jurisprudence. What happens is that, as has also been said, as we are also suffering, I don't know whether it is the inability or the will to negotiate, as it is being demonstrated with officials of the Administration of Justice; of course, it doesn't mean that the Council of Galicia can meet precisely the requirements of the European Court of Justice or the Constitutional Court, which so much invoke from more Madrid perspectives -- we could say -- when it is interested to invoke the Constitutional Court...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u158	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u159	...it's not going to be more judgmental than yesterday against LOMCE. I think they have to be more coherent, and they leave and leave, well, I don't know if they're still being, but they leave that particular black mirror where they're installed, because yesterday, precisely, at the Congress of Deputies, it was the only political group, the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u160	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u161	...who voted against measures, precisely, of equal work against the wage gap. Less hypocrisy and more forward-looking Community policies, the policies of the Constitutional Court itself in the field of equality and conciliation. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Villoslada. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José AlbertoPazos Couñago and seven other Members, on the presentation by the Galician Council, in the first quarter of 2018, of a balance sheet of the execution of the III Plan Director of Galician Cooperation 2014-2017, the development of a new master plan for the period 2018-2021, as well as the inclusion of quality humanitarian action among its strategic orientations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u163	This motion for a non-law tabled two amendments, the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u164	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Paz Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, just two weeks ago, the Council of Government of Galicia finally approved the Greek external action strategy, which had previously been debated, agreed and approved in this Parliament of Galicia. The Greek strategy of external action was born with the vocation to faithfully express the ancients of the Greek people by projecting themselves in the world. Consequently, it clearly sets out the objectives that as a people we mark, by selecting those geographic areas in which we should preferably develop external action in the future and establishing which are the priority sectoral areas and the concrete objectives associated with these priorities. But EGAE is something more than data, targets and strategies. Also, and basically, it's a declaration by the people of Greece represented by their legitimate institutions about how the Greeks and the Greeks want to project our identity in the world, how we hope that Galicia will occupy its place in the global village. It is from this feeling of galeguity of what our vocation is to close ties with Portugal and the countries of the Lusophony, which unites us with a long tradition of languages and affections, as recently reminded us of the arrival in our country of the Pergamiño Vindel. It is this feeling of galeguity that compels us to keep our relationship with the external Galicia, the universal Galician to which recently the president of the centre Galicia of Bos Aires, Mr. José María Vila, during the signing act of the agreement that will allow for the first time that is exhibited in our country The last lesson of the master, more than meaningful work of Alfonso Castelao whose arrival will allow us to value, once again, the well-founded contribution of the Greek diaspora to our culture and to the construction of our collective consciousness. Allow me, by the way, to take this opportunity to congratulate the Galician Councillory of Culture, for enabling the Greeks to enjoy this very important element of our cultural heritage for the first time here, without leaving our country. The feeling of galeguity also emerges our European vocation, as it corresponds to the land that has exercised the beacon of the Jacobean route of pilgrimage around which the European itself was formed. And, of course, it is part of the sentimental acquise of galeguity to our vocation of solidarity. A vocation worthy of a specific paragraph within the Greek outer action strategy, which for an effective projection needs proper planning. In order to promote this planning, we are now considering this initiative, which contains three points that we consider essential for that correct planning. The first one, the presentation in the first quarter of this year 2018 of the implementation balance sheet of the III Plan Director of Galician Cooperation 2014-2017, will allow us to verify whether we have complied with the development cooperation law, which provides in its Article 4, that the effectiveness in planning, execution, monitoring and evaluation of policies and cooperation projects are basic criteria for cooperation for the development of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. It is true that we are optimistic about the result of this assessment in the light of the results that have been resulting in the successive partial evaluations of the annual plans, but we understand that it is essential to analyse the overall activity developed in the field of cooperation over the past four years, so that we can transfer true and useful information on which the various organizations have carried out with the collaboration of the German Autonomic Administration. The evaluation constitutes an essential element of the policy of cooperation for the development of our community, which must be analysed from the criteria of effectiveness, efficiency, impact, relevance and viability, adopting the methodology of official Spanish and European cooperation for objective analysis of results, necessary for a twofold reason: by being an essential element for the progressive progress of the Union's policy towards greater quality and impact and by facilitating accountability for any policy of cooperation carried out with public funds. In paragraph two, and referring to it, the Development Cooperation Act also points out that Galician development cooperation is intertwined through four-year management plans and annual plans. The guidelines will be adopted by this Parliament in Galicia on the proposal of the Council of Galicia and on the previous report of the Galego Council for Development Cooperation. The fact is that the previous cycle of strategic planning of cooperation in Greece has exhausted the period for which it was approved and, consequently, the time has come to draw up a new strategic document that takes into account the results of the final evaluation of the III Plan, which takes into account the guidelines set out in the V Plan of Spanish Cooperation — even now presented at Parliamentary level at the Congress of Deputies — for proper coordination between the two and which results in more efficient results, which deepens the position in value of the qualitative aspects of cooperation in Greece and which includes the participation of all the Greek cooperation agents. It must be the Government of Greece who takes the initiative to present to the Parliament of Galicia a new proposal for a master plan that should incorporate, in our understanding, at least the United Nations 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals, a results-oriented management model such as what was already reflected in the Third Plan for European Cooperation 2014-2017, the results of the mid-term and final evaluation of this III Plan for the European Union's 2014-2017 cooperation and the consolidation of the processes of improvement of the quality and effectiveness of Galician cooperation driven by the previous plans of directors. We sincerely hope that in order to produce this document we will have an active participation — in the form of close proximity to the draft — of the set of cooperation agents and also of the groups represented in this House, in order to achieve a degree of consensus similar to that which has been achieved with respect to other recently approved strategic documents. Finally, we also call for inclusion among the strategic orientations of the Fourth Plan, which should cover the temporary aspect 2018-2021, of a quality humanitarian action, which is the coordination of the multiple factors involved in it, as well as its coherence, effectiveness, efficiency and accountability. A strategic orientation that responds to the needs of humanitarian crises that have experienced important changes in recent years, both in their origin and in their typology and dynamics. In this sense, the victims of phenomena associated with climate change and environmental degradation have increased, violence on civilian populations, which generate flows of displaced and sheltered populations, or the degree to exposure to food crises by speculation, land grab and price volatility of basic products. To all of this, we must add a general worsening of security conditions in humanitarian contexts that hinder access to affected populations. In this context, we believe that this IV Master Plan should serve to correct errors, to deepen the attention of the victims of humanitarian crises and to improve coordination by building on collaboration with specialized entities in the development of community action such as Pharmamundi, UNHCR or the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees. Or the Spanish Agency for International Cooperation for Development, for Joint and Coordinated Action on Humanitarian Action, and with the Solidarity Galician Association with the Sahara people, with the aim of improving the living conditions of the refugee population of Sahara. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to finish this speech without referring to recent developments that are pervading the world of cooperation. The scandal affecting various British NGOs and, in particular, the alleged relationships of some one hundred and twenty cooperatives with practices of abuse, sexual exploitation and prostitution, serious accusations that must be investigated in order to clear up the responsibilities that are taking place, but that cannot interfere with the work of thousands of cooperatives who devote their efforts to practicing solidarity where necessary. We do not want nor should we fall into the mistakes that others have made, not so long ago, with respect to other solidarity organizations, which have been subjected to inquisitional processes based on the actions of a few, with the only objective of disparaging their good deeds, extending over the whole of those organizations the shadow of suspicion by the disgusting attitudes — yes — of those few. Only Intermon-Oxfam has a network of more than 23,000 volunteers, distributed worldwide, whose activity deserves our respect and our support, extended to the vast majority of cooperatives. [[Applause]] They are people, undoubtedly, worthy of our trust, of the confidence of public administrations and of society as a whole, who today need more than ever to overcome a moment of special difficulty. Of course, as far as we are concerned, it will not stay, we will be on their side to help them debug both those responsibilities of those who have committed wrongful acts that offend us all, such as overcoming this moment and continuing with work, that of international cooperation, which we consider essential, and which has been so successful in developing these policies in the world for so many years. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u167	Good morning, everyone, and thank you, president. We hope, Mr Pazos, I really do tell you, that the Board is already working on that remaining part of the 3rd Plan Director and also that it is already working on that draft of the 4th Plan. You said, in addition, in your speech, that it is a legal obligation, a responsibility that is taken up in that Law 3/2003, of international cooperation, and to us in that sense, on the one hand, we were somewhat surprised by the initiative, but on the other hand, it is also true that this gives us the opportunity to bring this issue here and to debate it all the political forces that we are represented here. Since I don't have much time, I'll go straight to some questions. First of all, with the amendment we tabled, we have included an issue that is fundamental to us, which is also a repeated demand of the agents and entities working in the field of international cooperation in our country, as is the need for increased public investment in international cooperation in our country, mainly collected in the 331A budget programme, if I do not remember correctly. And it is also a question that the interim evaluation report of the III Master Plan of Cooperation insists repeatedly on more than one occasion, which means that the investment that is maintaining the Galician Union in terms of respect of other territories of the Spanish State, the successive cuts that have been developed in this programme 331A, and what have been removing those cuts from Galicia, in terms of investment in international cooperation, with other territories within the Spanish State itself. We what we want with our amendment — and I ask you to take air because I know that the figure is high — was to include a strategic horizon, a long-term goal in which to progressively place our country, as it is also collected in the amendment itself. Political commitments are being demonstrated by walking, showing sufficient public resources in this case to ensure not only that the programs that have already been developed can be developed, but also that others that are being designed in our country to contribute to the development and improvement of the material conditions of life of many people in many parts of the world. It is also true that, in addition to the need for increased budgets for international cooperation, one of the demands of the various actors working in the field of international cooperation and which also points out among the measures to improve the 2014-2017 Interim Assessment Report, or those issues in which they continue to work, deepening, is the need for increased and improved communications, dialogue among the different actors in the sector. Galician Union itself warns one of the points in the field of participation, transparency and satisfaction, in that report of external and independent evaluation, that it falls into a ritualization of participation in formal spaces, that the involvement is unequal in the case of different cooperative agents, that there is a vicar character of the participation itself and even asymmetry between the various agents. For us, and we were saying yesterday, for example, when we were talking about policies for the protection of children and intervention between children and adolescents, which is necessary in those issues and in those areas of political activity where there are agents outside the administration itself, those who develop an important part of their work, which are welded networks, but strong networks, equitable networks, where they can be freely expressed, and that these views are also taken into account when designing the policies to be developed. I have very few seconds left, and this is what I think I would also give to a much more in-depth debate. The first was about the political nature of the March 8 call, the March 8 strike, and the political nature of the feminist movement itself. Foreign action, also international politics, is also of a political nature. Here was talk of the galeguity and solidarity shown by the people of Greece. We have to go further and overcome that solidarity vision. Underdevelopment, which is one of the major areas of work in which we are working — it is redundant — since international cooperation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u169	...—end—it is also very interrelated with the position of certain nations in the world in the hierarchical structures of the world economy. It's hardly a divine question, of certain peoples or certain nations -- and you were talking about a case with which Galicia has close relationships like that of Sahara -- it's not a question that cannot be spoken about. It has a political character, and what we must not only focus on development cooperation, it is primarily to solve problems, which have a political root and nature, but above all economic. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. You have the floor, by the Galician Socialist Group, Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u171	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr Pazos, they are very Europeanists, they are presumed to be Europeanists, but it turns out they don't even comply with their own agreements within the European Union. We want the refugees and the refugees to come, and we want them to come now, Mr. Pazos. [[Applause]] It has already been said here, the external action of a country is not just an economic issue, which is also a political issue. That is why Spain — although it seems a long time ago — has been placed on the European map in the vanguard in multilateralism, in humanitarian action, in international cooperation. The turn from the right to the Government of Spain, I suppose, is that we were going out of this map of the fight against inequality, for the sake of sustainable development and for human rights, to lead us to the most absolute drift in this matter. A drift with a President of the Government who has become the executioner of international cooperation throughout Europe. That is the role that the Government of Spain and its President are playing right now. And I'm telling you because aid to international cooperation has been reduced by 70%, 90% in humanitarian action, and now it represents 0.21% of GDP, when the target we should be getting to is not just 0.7% that we live with those we were born in the 1980s with that struggle reincarnated by that percentage, we're going to 0.4%. The German Government was an advantaged student of Mr. Rajoy in this matter too. It has the disgraceful merit of being in line with budgeting and international cooperation, with a reduction since 2009 of 58.7% in this area, away from 0.008% of GDP — and I am not mistaken 0.008% — which represents Galicia's international cooperation in the EU average of 0.51%. States such as Portugal, for example, have also experienced a serious economic crisis but have continued to invest in human rights, freedom and equal opportunities. The fact is that we thought that we had reached the bottom of this matter, and after a year and a half of the negotiations of the V Plan director of Spanish cooperation, it turns out that we have found ourselves with a historical milestone: this is the first time that happens, in a negotiation and in the implementation of a plan like this, that there is no consensus. The Government of the People's Party, the Government of Spain, has that shameful merit. And in that Inter-Territorial Council, he had the support of the German Government — an accomplice to this verdict of international cooperation which Mr Rajoy is — and of the other governments of the autonomous communities of the People's Party, not of the rest of the autonomous communities or NGOs, who have long claimed that this plan has to collect all the objectives that are set out in that European agenda, and that it has to have an economic memory. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to present a plan without economic memory, without any kind of budget forecast! Do you imagine a plan, for example, of railway infrastructure without any kind of economic memory? For that is what is happening with the State-level Cooperation Plan; that is, there is an account of international cooperation but without any account whatsoever. And that's exactly why we tabled this amendment, because we are very afraid that this advanced student, Mr. Feijóo, can copy what happened in the Government of Spain, and that is based on that Fourth Plan of Cooperation in that corpse, in that plan that is born dead, of cooperation at the state level. We say this because we now grow to 3%, and as we said yesterday, when we talk about policies for children, there is no excuse for the economic crisis not to invest in the development of other countries. What we have is to be faithful, loyal, to whom we represent not only the co-operatives, who also — to whom we always value, and much, their work — but the characteristics of this population. The people of Greece and the Spanish population have shown themselves on numerous occasions that it is solidarity, despite having even now an insolidary Government. What we ask them to do is change these policies, to do so with the consensus of all entities, and of course it contains, as it is from receipt and as it is logical, an economic memory about it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u173	Thank you, President. Good morning. We are again facing one of the People's Group's parliamentary initiatives which are mere propaganda announcements. It has to be a propagandistic ad, it won't be a joke, because to present at the end of February an initiative that involves doing an important job in the first quarter of the year, with things that are already done in a band, I don't know if a propaganda ad or just a hair boot. What is obviously supposed to be a devalued Parliament, which looks like a space where the Members of the People's Party come uniquely and exclusively from time to time. As it is understood, if not, that, wanting to talk about international cooperation, Mr. Pazos has ten minutes and I have two to talk about the Vindel scroll. Look, I tried to follow her thread, but she made it really complicated! It remains there in evidence that international cooperation is important to you. In this way, in their initiative they talk about the need to evaluate the Third Plan Director of Galician Cooperation 2014-2017. Evaluation, well, we agree. Of course, it is more than necessary, it is essential to evaluate a plan to analyze its results. What would be desirable, and a great novelty to this administration, is that the evaluation was done before working on the next plan, because if we don't waste our time, we're messing up. That would be useful, reasonable and, of course, what organizations in the third sector are asking for: evaluate a plan, and then, depending on the results, draw up the following. Unfortunately, this logical scheme, which there is nothing to discover, is the natural scheme in the evaluation of public policies, does not fit in its proposal even if they enunify it, because the fact is that they are saying that everything is done at the same time; everything is going to be done in these first four months of the year. Finally, what does it mean not to prioritize and not to take advantage of the potential lessons we could learn from evaluating the III Plan for the Future? We don't know. What we do know is that this assessment should be based on a prior assertion, a prior recognition, by the Government of the People's Party. This plan which now seeks to assess, the Third Director Plan, was the first in the history of this country approved without consensus and without support from third sector organizations. So, as far as consensus and dialogue is concerned, the result of the evaluation we already know what zero is. But the important thing is to learn, of course. And we hope for the next one to take note — or to take — because — the second step of the hair — you are asking for the following plan to be drawn up and it turns out that the drawing up schedule is already made, the hired consultant, the NGO proposals sent are about to start the dialogue. I mean, they come here again to ask for what's already done, to advertise and to mock the opposition. Because they're not here asking for our support for anything because they've already taken the steps. Because they're already working for once. I wish this time, however, as I said, they had taken note and had been listening to the sector! I hope this time they don't ignore the organizations that are taking the lead in international cooperation in our country! Previous errors do not repeat. It has been said that we must not only regret — as I said — that the Third Plan of cooperation in Greece did not count on the necessary social consensus, but that everything seems to indicate that this is the trademark of the People's Party — there is, of course, data — and turn the back on dialogue, in the second place. They've already told you here, the Spanish Cooperation Director Plan will again be a plan that only counts with the support of the People's Party and does not contain the necessary consensus of the NGOs working in cooperation. But his initiative doesn't say anything about it. Nor does it say anything about all the outstanding commitments which have not been made; it does not say anything about the crude scissors which have been committed in the field of external cooperation. They may talk a lot about cooperation, but there are facts that tell us a lot more. That's why we don't trust each other, so for us this is just cheap chatter. What really defines the position of the People's Party in cooperation is the facts. When you arrived at the Government, the board had invested nearly 12 million euros in the 331A programme of external cooperation. In the last budgets approved in this House, only 5 million have been exceeded. They left the budget for cooperation in less than 60%; of every 2 euros we had for cooperation in 2009, you eliminated more than 1, leaving this government's commitment in a waste 0.04%. Out of the distance this figure is 0.7 percent of GDP is better than to comment on anything, because the distance is embarrassing to anyone. As Galicia is, because of its budgets, the queue of international cooperation across the state, you also have nothing to comment on. And we're also ashamed. As shame—and I say shame because I haven't been able to find another word, and look at how I've been looking for it for five days!—which explains what it feels like to read—and I quote textually—in an initiative signed by you: "In these four years the Council of Galicia has paid special attention to work with sheltered and displaced populations." Special attention to sheltered populations. Do you really not have the figures? Don't they know we're in the queue where the host of refugees is talking about? Do you know that at this very moment in Galicia there are at least two families of refugees in Lugo who are about to be defeated without the Government of Galicia doing anything at all? If they don't know, they're giving up unbearable functions. [[Applause]] If they know, and yet they have the nerve to write something like this, it's worse. [[Mr Chao Pérez shows a document.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak in order. Mrs. Rodil, you asked me to take some air from the figure they were raising. I won't take any air, if I may, I'll become aware. It simply seems to us that we should not feed certain expectations that are reasonably not being met, and that is why, of course, we cannot accept your proposal. In any case, if I thank you very much for the proposals you have sent us today and I hope that they will materialize in close proximity to the draft which you have presented at your time the Government of the Union so that they can be discussed by all and, if possible, incorporate into the agreements. In any case, it seems to me that continuing solidarity and nurturing cooperation is not incompatible with political action which, we agree, must solve many of the fundamental problems that cause these problems. Mrs. Blanco, man, we are all aware of the magnificent work Mr. Zapatero has done in the field of commitment to solidarity and the improvement of poverty. It must have been beyond our borders, because it is true that during its government in Spain poverty has increased to what it has never known before. I guess you won't feel so proud about that. In any case, if you call me to the attention that you come up here to criticize that there is no consensus in the Fourth Plan director of Spanish cooperation, mainly because you are the one who criticized the failure to budget that plan. And they criticise exactly the same ones that have blocked approval not from an budget, but from any budget. They block it and then complain there's no budget allocation. It is certainly a curious planting. In any case, I have to say that the amendments cannot be accepted. We'd like to incorporate some points in the socialist amendment, but it's not possible, because we don't agree with budget proposals. We believe that certain amounts should be committed that offer reliable commitments. This, along with the highest degree of budgetary execution — more than 90% — which is developing Together in cooperation projects, makes no one see himself going to abandon a project because of a lack of committed funding. It's something that is happening in other autonomous communities governed by you, where there's a very significant increase in virtual budgeting, and a very small execution, and that creates serious dysfunctions. In Galicia we will promise what we can do, and above all we will fulfill what we promise. And as for the refugees, it is true that mistakes have been made, but also true — literally—: "Spain has begun to receive refugees at a lower rate than could be expected, but the recently acquired commitment by the Government to relocate 500 more a month is a positive sign for all, especially for Italy and Greece." Voice of European Commission representation in our country, Dimitri Barua. What can I tell Mrs. Chao? Every time you get up here, it seems like it's to give me a shit. I deeply regret it. I don't know if yesterday you'd spend too much time sitting in Mrs. Santos' chair, and this might best print character. Keep an eye on you, Mrs. Santos, who is very interested in this. [[Applause]] In any case, I don't come to get my hair, I come to make a proposal. I understand that you didn't understand what I was saying to you at the beginning of my intervention because it was issues related to the approval of the EGAE, and your participation in the approval of the Greek outer action strategy we all know: the difference between other groups was null, they didn't even make a single proposal. Now it looks like they've got a lot of them. We are grateful that on this occasion if you join us and can develop and transfer all those matters from which you know so much. In any case, I'd say you don't have to have such a negative view of everything you talk about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u176	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u177	I'm telling you the truth, I think there are issues that are improving. But today that was attacked here -- because it's good for everything -- the capitalist system and the evil that we do things, I want to remind you of a news that New York Times journalist Nicholas Kristof described as the best unknown news. In the last thirty years, the percentage of people in the world who live in extreme poverty has been reduced by more than half; 1,100 million people have come out of extreme poverty. We can look at a lot of other data and variables that demonstrate that this capitalism that you attack is producing results and is bringing people out of poverty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u179	...of infant mortality rates...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u180	Quiet. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u181	...of literacy, and life expectancy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u182	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u183	I know that some who defend another model this bothers them. But that model you're defending... by the way, if Mrs. Barahona wants to talk, it's time for someone to give her the floor, please. [[Mrs. Barahona Martín speaks words that are not perceived.]] We would appreciate it very much. That model you're defending... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u184	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u185	...signs — thank you very much, Mrs Barahona — that model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u186	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u187	...just ended the poverty of the satraps who imposed them. It's easy to recognize them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u189	...I'm sure you have them printed on some of the T-shirts they have at home.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u190	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u191	Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u192	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u193	We proceed to the vote on non-legislative proposals. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao. I was pending a transaction. Can you read it, please?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u194	We'll get you to the House's services now. I read the literal agreement we reached the groups. Thanking and transferring ViGalice's thanks to all groups. "The Galician Parliament urges: Advance in the provision of personal assistants for people with functional diversity, instantly increasing their economic accounts. Advance in the provision of personal assistance for people with functional diversity within the framework of the international convention on the right of persons with disabilities. To transfer to the Government of the State the need to improve the provision of personal assistants, moving forward towards models that allow adaptation to the needs of each individual. That within the framework of the Imserso working group on the provision of personal assistance is considered the possibility of moving towards a self-management model by users."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u195	Thank you. We voted for this transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. in Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the provision of personal assistance to ensure the right to life independent of persons with functional diversity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u196	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, a popular initiative proposal that Mr Quiroga defended. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. the Socialists of Galicia, of popular initiative, on the measures to be promoted by the Junta de Galicia, in front of the central government, in relation to the protection of wine growers in the area of the regulatory councils of Ribeira Sacra, Ribeiro, Monterrey and Valdeorras affected by the frosts that occurred in the last days of April 2017. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u197	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the constitution in the Galician Parliament of a specific presentation for the analysis and elaboration of a proposal on the new political and institutional framework in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 51. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u198	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mr Merlo Lorenzo. There's a transaction. It doesn't matter. Or I'll read it. [[Pause.]] The transaction consists of two points. The first says: "Indicate by link the web space: www.pescadegalicia.gal, based on the knowledge of origin and date set in the code already inserted in the label by mail values at first sale of the product." And the second point: "Install a QR code or similar on the label of "FishingRías, where else?" that takes directly the traceability section of the product on the web: www.deondesenenon.junta.gal." Let's vote for these two points of the transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga and D. Juan José Merlo Lorenzo, on the introduction into the label of the fishing sealRías, where else not? the price paid per kilo to the mariner or seafooder, as well as a QR code that leads directly to the traceability section of the product on the www.deondesenon.junta.gal website. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u199	We are now voting for a non-law proposal, of all the House groups, of the GGs. PP. Popular of Galicia, In Marea, Galician Socialists and Galego Nationalist Block. We vote. Vote of the GG's non-legislative proposal. PP. Popular of Galicia, In Marea, Galician Socialists and Galego Nationalist Block, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the inclusion of minority or rare diseases considered serious and cases of this type in the process of diagnosis in the list of diseases reflected in the annex to Royal Decree 1149/2011, as well as the introduction to this of the necessary changes in order to define what is considered direct, continuous and permanent care for the purposes of a benefit. The voting was as follows: votes in favour,71. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u200	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr. Jaime Castineira. Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to En Marea have not been accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Jaime Castineira Broz and seven other Members, on the inclusion by the Galician Council of modular housing construction in its Public Promotion Housing Programme. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; abstentions, 33. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u201	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas. The amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the Greek feminism and the women's strike call scheduled for 8 March 2018 to claim equal opportunities in working conditions, in the social sphere and in the right to live without violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u202	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and three other Members, on the adoption by the Greek Government of the measures necessary to avoid unequal treatment between fixed and temporary self-employed public employees, in accordance with the doctrine of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u203	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Pazos Couñago. Amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Block and to the Socialist Parliamentary Group have not been accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Alberto Pazos Couñago and seven other Members, on the presentation by the Galician Council, in the first quarter of 2018, of a balance sheet of the execution of the Third Plan Director of Galician Cooperation 2014-2017, the development of a new master plan for the period 2018-2021, as well as the inclusion of quality humanitarian action among its strategic orientations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; abstentions, 33. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u204	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We move on to the sixth point of the agenda, which corresponds to interpelerations. Question by Mr Antón Sánchez García and two other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in connection with the completion of the processes of partial concentration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u205	Mr. Sánchez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u206	Good morning to all and all, too, those who are seeing us now. We are here in Parliament to talk about politics, and I, after what has happened in the last few days, can only spend a minute talking about the tremendous democratic involution that this country is experiencing. You want to send us back to frankism when you see that an intrusion of a rapper is sentenced to three years in jail for making letters against the King. You want us back to franchise when there are prisoners for defending political ideas. They want to lead us to frankism when they want to eliminate the essence of the Entrood, criminalizing those who made an irreverent pregon with the authorities, that's the feeling of the pregon... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u207	On the issue, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u208	You want to criminalize the democratic mayor of Santiago de Compostela...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u209	Quiet, to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u210	...who receives threats...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u211	Mr. Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u212	...fascist threats...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u213	Quiet, please. To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u214	A fellow boy will be judged...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u215	Mr. Sánchez, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u216	...on March 19, at the National Audience, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u217	Please be quiet. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez, please, on the matter. To the point. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u218	...you, the same...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u219	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u220	...who keep the big thieves...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u221	Mr. Sánchez... Mr. Sánchez, I call you in connection with the article on the issue. I'll warn you for the first time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u222	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u223	You know three warnings are supposed to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u224	Yes, if you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u225	No, no. Not between you, please. I'm talking to what you're doing with the interpellation. [[Murmurs.]] That's the point, Mr. Sanchez. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u226	You are also playing a poor role in averting freedom of expression in this Parliament, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u227	I don't think so. Please. Please, that would be no hurry in this case. Please, on the matter. Let's get to the point. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u228	As long as we see the big thieves, sheltered by you, they walk down the street. [[Murmurs.]] Call whatever you want. [[Applause]] I'm going to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u229	Start.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u230	Now, Mr. Tellado, yell whatever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u231	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u232	The thieves walk on the street with their conviviality. Mr Urdandarín is free and living a great life.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u233	That's the point, Mr. Sanchez. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Sánchez, second warning. Second warning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u234	That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u235	Second warning. Third, word withdrawal. Second warning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u236	Mr President, the truth may offend, but we must say it, in that case. We're talking about the partial mergers, which are an endless failure... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, when I mentioned that thieves are on the street, would you like to say something about it or...? Since he doesn't get the president's attention, I'll have to call him. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u237	No dialogue, go to the point. Go to the partial concentration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u238	In relation to the partial concentrations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u239	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u240	...an endless failure to bear responsibility for the years and years of the People's Party's government, I wanted to begin by saying — Counselor, good days — that you have just come out in December a survey of farm structure that you must know. It's bad data for Galicia, bad data. In the period 2013-2016 3,383 holdings were lost, almost a reduction of four and a half percent of holdings. While this was happening in Galicia, the average state fell to 2.1 per cent; the rate of destruction of agricultural holdings was twice as high as in the average state. A bad data, followed by a bad one. It could be that they shut down farms and that the surface of those farms would be enlarged to the land base of other farms, but at all that happens, because we also lost and still lose enormous value for a country like the soils of agronomic aptitude, the useful agricultural area, which is reduced to about 34,000 hectares, coming from a historical trajectory and from an unstoppable and spectacular loss. But it's more, in fact, as the State increases its hectares by exploitation, in Galicia they go down. And if in 2013 that same data said that each holding had an average of 8.4 hectares, it's now reduced to 8.35 hectares per holding. That is, after a period of small increase in the territorial base, the last years of the People's Party cause a decrease in the area by exploitation. Bad data and a bad destination, since most of these lands cease to have agricultural production in a country that has to import annually around 900 million euros of food that is not able to produce here, they go to reforestation of agricultural land for eucalyptus, for pines, and we don't want a country that continues to reforest land because it's a value to protect. It's a terrible trend because it diminishes a limited resource like the soils of agronomic aptitude. These data, as well as we still have a problem of generational change in the field: only 5.65% of the holding owners are under 40 years of age, is a situation of extreme gravity and offer the X-ray of an abandoned rural and a farm that has been enduring wrong, irresponsible and harmful policies for years as well. As damage was generally — obviously, there would have to be case-by-case analysis — the model of partial concentration driven in Fraga times. It has served to paralyze agricultural activity in many places. It was selected with cliental and caciquí criteria; that is, where some mayor wanted partial concentration, it was made the partial concentration by political criteria but not by technical criteria, considering that it could be an instrument of boosting agricultural activity. They served to plant eucalyptus in many cases, not at all, we don't want to generalize; they served to place houses as an instrument of urban management rather than as an impulse for agricultural activity. We're seeing that there are still areas where technicians are going to do their jobs for the concentration that are deserted, that they're never going to have an agrarian impulse. So it's a failed model of land management, for the loss of useful agrarian surface and because instead of helping, in many cases it has prevented agricultural development. There are areas where there have been years and years that people can't act on their farms or on their lands because of having pushed these processes. And in this context, where you no longer dare to defend the model that they have developed for years and years of partial concentration, which has been a model also, in general, economically unsustainable and environmentally—in general, I say, it is true that there may be cases where they have served for agricultural activity, but in many of the cases, as I say, no— you announce that in this legislation all the concentrations that are active will end, and we are a bit full of promises that will then not be fulfilled by your government. Promises they want to cover up the lack of a proper policy with rigor and made through years with budgets and with the execution of budgets, Counsellor. You're very agile to produce institutional lies and put them around in the media, but you're not as agile in the processes themselves that you have to implement. In the last two years, 2016 and 2017, the rate was an average of four titrations per year. There were seven titrations in 2016 and one in 2017. At most, technicians are reporting an average of ten of these files. How do you intend to complete all the partial mergers with this rhythm? 2016, seven titles delivered; 2017, one. It's totally unrealistic for you to get it. What we really need to do -- besides that we believe that what we need to do is to end up with a situation that produces a lot of crooks and headbreakers for people living there -- is to finish it as rationally as possible at the economic and environmental level, knowing that many of these areas will no longer have agrarian use or agrarian use. And from there on, give a new approach to land management, a new approach that rejects the model that you have developed all these years, which is an absolute failure, and which goes to a model of land management that is most economically and environmentally sustainable. And also, of course, the recognition of his government's failure to manage the earth. We have a territorially disordered country, where eucalyptus is being planted on land land, where they can't stop the loss of this value. They recognize it and try to give it a correction in the sense that this country has to protect that resource, because there is no country that prays, developed, that does not fight because its soils are producing as much as possible. And a country like Galicia needs for the dairy sector, for the agricultural sector, to produce inputs here and not depend so much on the thought. So, Counselor, at the pace we're going, we're not going to finish these concentrations. If you promised to end in this legislation 128 processes of partial concentration or your government promised that, tell me, if you don't reach half the target they proposed, will you resign? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u241	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Reply by the Rural Media Adviser
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u242	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, first of all, respect. I respect when there's an interrogation and therefore we have to talk about a subject, but especially about women, and as a woman I have something to say. I have something to say because I don't think there's any need to mutilate or kill anyone in order to make letters to a rapper or anything like that. I think we have an obligation, and that obligation is normal cohabitation. And if you have respect to women, the least you have to do is condemn certain letters like those we had the misfortune to listen to. [[Applause]] Having said this, and because I do care about rural life, I'm going to focus on the commitments made by the Government, which, of course, are commitments from the Rural Environment Council. And if at some point we say that we're going to finish the partial concentration processes at the administrative level, believe me that behind us comes a job and some technical reports; and, therefore, the compliment will become effective before the legislation is over. You were talking about data, and it seems like going out here and talking about rural is the projection of a totally black rural. I'm not going to take you against him, I'm just gonna put on the table the work and the effort that the farmers and farmers are doing. We beat this record year as much as milk means. We beat the record where cattle heads mean. We secondly, at the national level, as far as the cattle are concerned. We're the first in kiwi plantations. We're still Spain's lung. We are also the first in terms of organic dairy farms. We're the seconds on honey. We provide 25 % of eggs from all over Spain. Well, it's numbers and it's realities that you can contrast, and from then on, put or not value not the work of the government itself, but the work of the people who live in rural areas. I imagine there will be things we don't agree on, but there will be others where if we get to an agreement, and that agreement is that talking about property restructuring is fundamental, because that means the socioeconomic take-off of the Greek agribusiness. This actually allows for the resizing of farms, making them more profitable, combining particular interests and also the general interest. It allows, at the same time, to improve the channels of communication, not only for the plots themselves, but to provide greater and better public services and thus enhance the quality of life of people living in rural areas. One who lives in rural and the other who lives in rural. In this sense, we also clarify and update the ownership of the earth, which is fundamental, because we all know of the excessive fragmentation, of course — that is a reality — of the earth in Galicia. We all know there's a story that helps us, for good or for bad. So we have to keep moving forward to have balance; and to have balance also means making strong investments. There were moments when other services had to be prioritized and indeed no priority was given to the reorganization of the property, but that is not what is happening now, Mr Sánchez. And there was a need to make changes, in addition to the legislative level, because they were, in fact, long, costly processes that took too long. Many times we've been driven by people who, in the end, have no longer been able to use their new lands. For that is Metaga, and thanks to it the processes of public character are reduced from six to four phases, and therefore we have reduced the development time of the processes, disappearing two intermediate phases which were very long in time, which were the provisional bases and one of the projects. That is what enables us to say that these 128 partial mergers we have in the territory will be terminated administratively — believe me, Mr Sánchez — before the legislation is over. At the same time, Metaga bets on the use of pre-existing road structures; that is, we have to have respect for the territory. We spent these big quadricles having those roads that often only have to do is adapt them and improve them, which is what is being done right now, and therefore suffer a lower impact on the middle, also implying a reduction of costs. And that reduction of costs makes it possible for us to make a greater execution and we have greater economic possibilities to be able to cover not only those 128 spaces, but, apart from these 128 spaces, we started 51 new partial concentrations throughout this year. Several are the goals we pursue. Better structural, technical and, therefore, economic conditions for agricultural holdings in Galicia, which is true that there are fewer numbers, but they are being resizing, because we cannot constantly condemn those small farms, and that they are simply a number, these evil farms. They have to live as real rural industries, which is what they're trying to do right now. That's what the sector is asking us to do, and therefore it's the line in which we are governing we have to act. By also establishing aggregating predispositions and greater mobilization for agricultural use. Another of the goals of pursuing Metaga is to facilitate territorial adaptation of areas with high environmental and landscape values, and so we are doing, to enhance and preserve the permanence of these values. Or that reduces the incidence of risk through spatial and functional reorganization of the existing territorial structure. In addition, it seeks to mitigate the effects of climate change and, as it does not, seeks to increase the area of farms through the mobilization of lands. Ladies and gentlemen, since the partial concentration in Galicia has started in 1,025 areas. We speak of 500,000 hectares, affecting about 430,000 owners, and that makes up a total of 4.110,000 plots. The 87,5 % of these areas are completed and 12,5 % are in operation. So we're talking about that 12.5% is the 128 living areas that we have today in our community. From the point of view of investments in recent years, and in view of the budgetary constraints to be placed on the table, it has been necessary to prioritize the actions to be carried out in various areas. So it was determined to give priority to areas that had the main roads executed, because it's the ones that need a higher budget. The budget for this type of action has grown markedly in recent years, hence the Government's commitment. If the average budget between 2013 and 2015 has reached 8.8 million euros, the 2017 budget has increased by 207%, up to 27 million euros. And by the beginning of the year we have budgeted another 20 million euros. Between 2016 and 2017 the objective was to continue to advance in areas with main paths executed. We also anticipate the execution of major road networks in other parts of Galicia and we determine actions towards the advance of restructuring processes. Look, from 2009 to 2017, they invested in Galicia 92 million euros in the works and technical services of these territorial management processes. Thanks to this investment, the land was relocated to 128 active areas, which currently affect 112,059 hectares, the same ones that are intended to be closed administratively by 2020. And look at me repeating it three and four times for me to figure out, because I'm sure the technical reports and the budget, in the end, will prove this to be so. At present there are 84 areas of the 128 that are already with the firm definitive bases or the upper phase, 15 of them with firm agreement; with which the objective of 84 believes that it is already fulfilled. With regard to the remaining 44 areas, as you said — and we did not agree on many things, but in some of them, six of them are being studied if they meet the goals of the Metaga, because there may be one who does not meet those requirements and therefore decides to close it. In 33 the recruitment processes, the agreement and the replanting of new estates are already contracted, and executed or running the network of roads works. In these areas, depending on the number of resources we have raised against the agreement, we will meet the proposed objective. In other 5, for different reasons, we are conditioned by sectoral reports — because we have sectoral reports — to be able to develop. But we're working to be able to take possession of the new farms and finish them the following year. I mean, in 2018, provision of 20 million euros for these 128 processes, of which I've already told you in a way I think it exhaustives what the relationship is. I can give it to her, too, with names and names, but I think numbers are enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u243	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u244	Counselor, thank you very much for the answer. Our respect for women is absolute, but look, I'm telling you, there was a member of the People's Party not long ago — to set a single example — who said, "Laws are like women, they're about to violate them." He gave up, he said, for personal reasons. For that gentleman, we are asking for resignation because it is not worthy of representing any political position in this country. But we didn't ask for the jail, we asked for the resignation. So don't you come to make that reading of what is the freedom of expression of an actor, singer or whatever. [[Applause]] They're in chains...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u245	To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u246	...the question—they're chaining people who twittera jokes about White Street, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u247	Mr. Sánchez, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u248	I'm answering what the advisor told me. So you start...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u249	And she objected to what you said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u250	...to respect women. They start by not having a spokesman at the Congress of Deputies who said that the families of the victims of Franco-Francist repression only move when there are subsidies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u251	That's the point, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u252	...and Mr. Hernando is still there. Therefore, respect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u253	Mr. Sánchez, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u254	I'm on my way to the point, which I want to finish, in addition. Counselor, I'm starting to explain everything. So the trick was in that if we had eight steps before, in the previous law, the definitive bases were the fifth step, and they were still left after the concentration project, the partial concentration agreement and the property reorganization act, these three steps in which many concentrations have been soaked for years, you're going to consider finished the process at the fifth step of these eight. Answer me as you're going to agitate with Metaga, which I'm telling you is alive since 2015 and in 2016 seven titles have been delivered and in 2017 one. That is, it says there are 20 million euros and the titles are delivered at a concentration, which is the end of the partial concentration process. Of course, now the counselor comes to say no, that we're going to finish because we're going to end up on the definitive bases. Now I'm explaining everything. But from the definitive bases to the delivery of titles there were partial mergers that have been waiting for more than a decade, Counselor. You can also bring here and say of these 20 million euros when it was executed. Because the average of the last three years of the 551 programme of infrastructure and improvement of rural structures is 25%. One out of four euros to be invested, three out of four euros to be left unexecuted. General account for 2014, 2015 and 2016, Counsellor. So don't come and sell smoke. As a matter of fact, you promised to complete the active partial concentrations, 128, in this legislation, and that in 2016, seven, and 2017, one. And all they want to do is be a prestigious trick, saying we're going to end when the ultimate bases are. The first transitional arrangement of the Metaga clearly speaks of the irretroactivity of the partial concentrations. That means something. Only when possible will the partial concentration be adapted to the Metaga processing from the moment the processing is taken. Therefore, Metaga won't serve 90% of the cases for this axillization. And then you said, "The rural in black." We didn't paint rural in black, I made a relationship of recently published data on the structure of agricultural holdings. If you want to come here to say that losing 34,000 hectares in three years is a good data, say it and it will be portrayed. For us it's not a good data, it's a bad data, especially when agricultural lands are going to be reforested with eucalyptus and are being reforested every day. If you think that the territorial base of the farms descends from 2013 to 2016 from 8.44 hectares per holding to 8.35, come here and say it. For us, what it means is to see the failure of your policies, and here you have recognized that since the times of Fraga the People's Party has been insisting on a failed model. You just recognized him here. You're responsible that while you've invested 1,200 million euros in partial concentration processes, we've systematically lost useful agrarian surface that was colonized by eucalyptus and by houses, that's reality. It's not like painting a rural in black, no. The rural in black paints the figures. As the demographic figures that have just been published have been painted, where 76% of the population is already concentrated in the provinces of the Atlantic axis, and where the progressive abandonment of rural areas follows. Talk to your advisor's technicians when they go to Postelle to do the land concentration work, where they come from rural behind the abandoned rural core, where they're going to make a partial concentration where there's not a single farmer or farmer who can work after he's invested so much money in it. Counselor, at the current pace they won't meet, I told you. If you don't accomplish half the target you've scored, will you resign? Do you have any control mechanism so that in the areas you're concentrating on avoiding eucalyptus monoculture as is happening? And don't come to me with the law, don't come to me with the law, come to me with the reality. I know in law you can't make certain changes in use, but it's happening and you know it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u255	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Close this interrogation, Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u256	Thank you, President. Believe me, Mr. Anton, that no partial concentration is being made anywhere where there are no farmers. The law says it, and I know that as you speak of the law is not equal to fulfilling it, but in our case having a law is to enforce it. [[Applause]] In those places where eucalyptus plantations are being planted in agricultural areas, believe me that, until we arrive, there are the relevant sanctions. But it is true that we must all collaborate, therefore, in those areas where their mayors rule, I believe that we should also work and make the relevant complaints in those places where they are competent, such as the secondary fringes. From there, we focus on the partial concentration processes, and you don't want me to repeat what you say. I said that the 128 areas of partial concentration would be administratively completed, and you're telling me about the bases. I'm talking about the administrative end of the partial mergers. We now have 45 open in the province of Coruña, which is 47,724 hectares. I have to talk about the enormous work the technicians are doing and all the effort, and from here I have to thank them. There are 14 living areas in Lugo, with an area of 9,621 hectares; 31 in the province of Coruña, with 23,990 hectares; and 37 in the province of Pontevedra, with 30,724 hectares. But we're going to go further, because this is the demand of farmers and farmers, and after the realization and, of course, of the enforcement of the law, and of heeding what is commanded by Metaga, I tell you that we will open 51 new areas of partial restructuring that will be distributed in the following way, because here there has to be transparency and therefore we must all know: 13 in the province of Coruña, 24 in the province of Lugo, 8 in the province of Ourense and 6 in the province of Pontevedra. This means that we are making an important effort to finish the ones that are now alive, and, on the other hand, to do the studies relevant to demands, and depending on the sector, to open new processes. But not only that, because here I'm talking about partial mergers is about agriculture, but I'm also talking about forest emissions, and all we've got open, Mr. Anton, I mean that 109,000 acres are mountain concentrations. Ordered mountain that we will have before the end of the legislation, which comes to be 67% of those we have now alive. So we're talking about that in 2020 we're going to have 109,000 hectares of concentrated forest nature, which doesn't mean that this forest nature is unique and exclusively eucalyptus, because, if for some reason you're fighting this service through the new forest planning, it's to have variety and, therefore, to meet biodiversity also in Galicia. The restructuring promoted by individuals is also welcome, and we now have five partial mergers promoted by individuals. We're taking certain processes forward, as is the framework model. It is an agricultural mechanism for the Community restructuring of the area which also involves restructuring what is the agricultural area. These are intended for small sizes, between 50 and 200 hectares, and it is conceived as a system complementary to the restructuring of the property, which would group the temples only by modifying their right to use. At this point, it's being carried out in Sarria, instead of Louseiro, and it's going to cost less, but it's assuming an adaptation to what the sector is asking us to do. And there they are also requested, as a framework model, other areas to reorganize, such as the case of the surroundings of Lugo, also in Vilalba, in the areas of Eume-Ortegal or in the areas of the Ten. This project is being piloted by the Land Bank. It's something to make it more feasible and therefore it's the owners themselves who determine their reorganization, always evaluated and giving them legal certainty by the Council of Galicia. We have a lot of examples of what I could talk to you about right now, as is the case with Touro, as is the case with Pino, as is Trazo or as is the case with Curtis, which are modeled partial concentrations and which suppose one before and after for the farms in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u257	Thank you, Counselor. Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández and seven other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the extraordinary road plan of the central government
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u258	You have the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u259	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Welcome. Allow me first of all to tell you the picture of state investments in Galicia in recent years, because our understanding can't be more discouraging. The last exercise was undoubtedly the worst, and with this I want to lower the euphoria that a few moments ago showed Mr. Feijóo. In the last two years, the percentage of compliance with State investment in Galicia was only half. They stopped investing 1.3 billion euros; that's 31%, under even the overall percentage of execution in Spain. Some figures that we understand deserve an explanation for their part, because they speak both of Mr. Feijóo's inability and of the People's Party to defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, as well as of the obvious contempt that you give to this fact. The millions not only didn't invest, but they're not even expected. On the other hand, and according to data from the Galega da Construction Federation, the State led in 2017 the collapse of the public works auction in Galicia. Of nearly 500 million bids in 2016, it's just over 100 million in 2017. That is, about 400 million euros less available for public works in Galicia. And if we compare this figure with that which Seopan offers for the whole of Spain, of 3,850 million euros, it turns out that the state only licited in Galicia less than 3% of the total. I don't know what they give you all these figures, but I'm told by the Central Government, the PP government and Mr. Rajoy for Galicia. And I just don't understand what kind of good tune and loyalty is that you profess to be always translated into the abandonment of the Galicians and the Greeks. I'm going to give you two more data that are demolition. In 2016, not only did Adif bid fall by 60%, but the Ministry of Development began investing by 96% less. Listen carefully, Counselor. From 288.6 million investment in 2016, it increased to 11.6 million in 2017. I think it's data that has their explanation in the desire and lack of motivation by Mr Feijóo in front of the German Government. Do you understand, Mrs Vázquez, or why our concern? Our feeling is that, if something is fragrating in Spain, it's certainly not in Galicia. Here's all we've got is the twists and turns of the towels, the promises, those that soon march with the projects and with the money to other communities and that you're unable to retain. And that's why we come to you here with these concerns, which become even bigger after I announced on July 14 of last year, by the Government of the State, of the extraordinary road investment plan. A plan for which they announced an investment of €5,000 million over the next four years. A plan supported by a new funding mechanism, based on collaboration with the private sector, and with several objectives: to complete the tranches of the trans-European transport network pending; to solve the bottlenecks existing in the current road network; to improve and adapt the main existing highways to the requirements of the new regulation on sinlessness, noise and emissions of C02; and to ensure the preservation of all projects being carried out, because it is actually the construction companies in this plan that will be responsible for the maintenance of the infrastructures that will be allocated to them for a period of thirty years. That's all right. The Socialist Party knows you are not opposed to this formula of financing and payment for availability. It is the lack of transparency and communication of the contents of this plan that we are greatly concerned about throughout this process and that has led us to present this interpellation today. Counsellor, allow me to comment on another issue which I think is important and which comes to the collation, in addition, in this debate. Since 2011, Spain has participated in the Open Government, the open government alliance, an entity in which 64 countries already participate and which aims to improve the communication of governments with their citizens, involving them in public processes. In the prologue to Spain's IIIth Action Plan 2017-2019, the current vigor, there are reflections as follows: "It is intelligent to manage institutions and organizations, counting on the active participation of those affected by them, because it enables them to meet the legitimate expectations of interest groups, and therefore to make better decisions." And he also says, "To count with the affected is also a question of basic justice, because they are, by law, the protagonists of public life. We need to organize communication so they can wait for their questions and proposals to be heard and have a proper answer." In summarizing, transparency, participation and communication, that's what the Vigilant Action Plan for the Open Government is talking about. And today is what we ask you to do: transparency, participation and communication. Our duty today is to remind you that after the extraordinary road investment plan, there are clear protagonists, who first the President of the Government in the presentation of the plan, and then you, you, have objected and are blatantly obvious. As far as you and Mr. Feijóo are concerned, it's the Galicians and the Greeks. All of them deserve to know in detail and to think about the priorities of the work to be undertaken. Since the presentation of the plan, we know only on time and little concrete data. Minister Íñigo de la Serna, in attendance at the Congress, said that there are few projects that may be part of the plan, and announced that those with a priority character will be included, a degree of maturity sufficient to allow short-term approval of feasibility studies, to be economically and financially viable and to be financed by the European Investment Bank, with a minimum investment of EUR 100 million; as well as having already been subject to public information, among other things. Of course, this message made it clear to us that they have a number of roads in mind, but they do not intend to reveal them or consult them with citizenship. Yes, the data knows the government and many of the builders who have confirmed their attendance at the various meetings. Open government. Remember what I read to you before your goals?"To keep in mind people, protagonists, active participation, to make the best decisions." We're not telling you a complaint from the Socialist Party, it's a commitment from its Government, which aims to be open and participatory but makes public information when it's already cooked and even tasted. In fact, in December the President of the Government announced in press in Murcia that it would be in this community where the exit gun would be given, with actions already valued at 675 million euros. Of the 2,200 million announced for this year, Counsellor, and eight months after the plan announcement, we still don't know if any of those millions will come to Galicia. That plan announced by hand the hand of the ministry with the autonomous communities and what we know today is through the media. Those who conveyed to us — because it was not you and Mr Feijóo — that you have already moved those infrastructures that they believe would fit those requirements that indicate encouragement. On the one hand, the construction of a new 10-kilometre plot on the A-55 highway between The Porriño and Vigo to connect with the A-52; the layout of what has already been announced to start the project's drafting process. And as you know, it would be of the utmost interest to be included in this sadly known trait of being one of Spain's greatest sinisterity index; not being "one of them", is Spain's most sinisterity. Other roads could also be included, such as the A-74 highway, the Navy highway, connecting approximately 33 kilometers between San Ciprián and Barriers to connect with the A-8. The highway that would connect to the future A-59 highway, which would go from Peinador airport to Vilaboa. A-56, which would connect Ourense to A-54 to reach the city of Lugo. The A-57, which would take place in the first phase from Ponteareas to Pontevedra. A-76, which would connect Ourense to Galicia's central exit and entrance to Ponferrada. We don't know, by the conditioners insinuated by the minister of the Serna, if all of them, some, or perhaps others, would choose to enter this extraordinary road map. Do you realize how frustrating it may be to fail to meet expectations because you have not properly communicated and informed of the real possibilities that Galicia has to participate in this plan? That's why we moved this series of questions to you today: Will Galicia go into which one or won't enter? What concrete commitments for Galicia will be included? With what timeframe forecast and what did you count? Under what guarantee? And what other actions, in any case, concerning roads will carry out the Government of the State directly, without including in the advance plan, during the years 2018-2019 and that you can bring us forward in an act of true open government? We would appreciate the answer to all these questions because I think they are clear and direct. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u261	Thank you, President. Mrs. Pierres, a fact that the president of the board has already said in the morning. Allow me to tell you that Galicia, as far as investment is concerned, grows in 2017 four times — data that made it easier for the Ministry of Development yesterday. Galicia has the first place in volume of investment adjudication throughout Spain; 12.1 % of the total investment adjured in Spain. So, revealing fact, of course, you shouldn't listen to the president in the morning. In any case, it is surprising to me that the different opposition groups in Parliament devote much of their time to asking questions that are not directly within the competence of the Galician Union, but that they are within the competence of the State. I don't get it wrong, I'm delighted, of course, to answer and talk about what's needed; but I think they show that the Greek Government is performing a good management in our direct competition, especially in the Infrastructure Council. I think they show their way of congratulating the Infrastructure Council. And by the way, I suppose data from the Construction Federation, too. The Galician Union increased its bid by 16.54%, which is clearly not what you said. The Galician Infrastructure Agency increased the bid in 2017 by 28.10%. And the Board of Infrastructure and Housing, in total, has increased by 57% in tenders. So it's your way of congratulating us on the Infrastructure Council. [[Applause]] It would be more accurate and agile to ask those who have direct responsibilities, but we talk about what they want. And of course we'll report on the management, the work and the demands we've seen by the Galician Union to the State. In any case, let me say that this supervisory work is very powerfully called to mind. It was a pity that this critical spirit did not have it when they had responsibilities in the Government in Spain -- let me -- as in the time of the White Minister: these intermodal Pharaohic stations that didn't pass from a model; highways that didn't pass from a strip to a paper; even promising the arrival of the AVE knowing that the works of the AVE were paralyzed. What about today? Today we have viable intermodals, practically already in recruitment and into very few months, in works; new highways already put into service; the finished Atlantic axis, and the high speed AVE, running for testing in 2019. In any case, we move in the interests of the Greeks, of course we do. We focus our efforts every day of the year on working, defending, watching and getting more comfortable roads and infrastructure, safer, better services, better services. And also working, within our competences, to ensure that the 5,500 kilometres of roads owned by the Galician Union are safer; demanding and demanding the Government of the State's greatest investments. By continuing to focus the question and by clarifying some questions, I think you have to recognize the important investment and investor effort that has been carried out in recent years, which was the current government in Madrid. That's the real reality. The state's general budgets in 2017 are 11% of all Spain, and it was not an extraordinary and unpublished case. We have in 2016 a 12.3%; in 2015, 12.3%, etc., in important years of economic difficulty. And we're done with the Atlantic axis, high-speed connections in advance, and pushing the intermodal stations. You were very satisfied when it was 8% the investment destined for Galicia. He said the Socialist President of the Union, "historical contribution", with 8% of the investment." Now, with three more points, you seem disappointing. They applauded when it was 8%, with 11% of them looking little. That 8% is historical and 11% ironic, of course, is tremendously consistent with the Socialist Party. In any case, don't get confused, doesn't mean we're satisfied. And we will continue, of course, claiming and working for investments and strategic infrastructures of government that governs in Madrid, demanding and being vigilant. There were other governments who just drew a paper, and we saw moving for the Ministry of Development to run and carry out priority actions and correct that deficit. In this weekly follow-up we make of all the actions of the Government of the State that are compromised we can give other data. Galicia is the second autonomous community with per capita investment; the fourth in investment volume. And now that additional investment of the extraordinary road investment plan. Extraordinary financing — as you said — of public-private collaboration, not from the fees — as is your model and model of the Greek Minister José Blanco. We now have concrete objectives: to complete the pending tranches of the trans-European network, to adapt the highways to the regulations and to ensure road conservation. And we have this extraordinary investment plan, which is 5,000 million euros to act on 2,000 kilometres of roads for four years; a concession through the canon of availability. That is, when the works are finished during exploitation, thirty years through a cannon. So we see it as a new opportunity to carry out pending infrastructures and respond to that demand that we have of growing our cities for territorial vertebration and competitiveness. In view of this active participation that you said, in order to participate all, the Minister of Development has indeed given us an offer. In view of this active participation by the Ministry of Development, we have, of course, transferred to the Ministry of Development various priority actions which can be promoted through this mechanism; a unique mechanism for financing apart from the general budgets of the State. That is why we call for different actions to include that they have fit, large and high-cost investments, with important administrative progress; these must be mature works. So on the basis of those assumptions, we made concrete demands for the Ministry of Development to evaluate its inclusion. The Vigo-O Porriño motorway, A-76, A-57, the northern variant of Ourense and the Navy highway are strategic axes that, of course, we expressly request the Ministry of Development to include them in this Investment Plan. We insist on the highway again traced between Vigo and the Porriño because we're talking about a functional alternative. The current highway, which has a very intense, very high, very high traffic, and therefore we also ask for it. A-74, two truces: Barriers-Foz; investment, 175 million euros. And also requested the variant of northern Ourense, as I said, the third to Cambeo. We're talking about 95 million euros. A-57, as the Pontevedra variant knows, prioritising the third The Ermida-Pilotaires, 85 million euros. A-76, in particular, the third EUR 70 million. Therefore, we prioritize, demand and demand concrete actions of high cost, with advanced processing and with social profitability, because we believe that it fits into that Investment Plan. It's 600 million euros in total what we've transferred to him. We leave to the Ministry of Development's initiative that decides whether it is in the extraordinary infrastructure plan or budget, because the truth is that we want it to move forward and be done. And by budgetary means we have already included other actions that will not go into this ICP, in this plan, but we know that it looks budgeted and not from the fees — which is its model —: vial 18, Alfonso Molina, Santiago-Lugo A-54, orbital link. Because it was you who did that works related to AP-9 were loaded with increased tolls. We have taken up a commitment from the Ministry of Development to ensure that the rest of the AP-9-related actions are carried out through budgeting and not increasing the fees. I think that's the difference between what you do, that ruinous convention signed in 2006, which forced all the Greeks to pay EUR 7 million annually throughout the concession period. And we worked so that the Greeks didn't have to pay EUR 400 million until the year 2048, which was what you did for a state bus. Let me say that we don't do it so badly, because his colleagues in Andalusia have already said that Galicia is a privileged community... "The Andalusian government charges against the privileges of Galicia." [[Protests.]] So it's so bad that we don't do it because Andalusia wants the same privileges as Galicia with the state. So look at management, compare work, and that comparison will have a result. [[Applause]] For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u262	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez. In the replica round, Mrs. Pierres López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u263	Thank you, President. Counsellor, communication. Do you remember what I told you earlier about communication? Today the president of the board revealed to our spokesperson the adjudications of the group Development in Galicia around 357 million; and he said it was a data he had received tonight. Well, I don't know what kind of communications you have with the Meseta, because the press release of the ministry itself is from January 11th, 40th, 40th. And here it is. [[Applause]] Frankly, I don't know if they're not good at eating pigeons, 'cause they've been undernourished lately. It seems a lie that, after what happened to them also with the Bivalvos Laboratory and the amazing ridiculous thing they've done, they haven't, at least, renewed the dove. [[Laughter]] But look, I'm going to tell you today a word that will change your life and Mr. Feijóo: And look, so they don't say the opposition is ungenerous, I'm going to give them another word: email, which is also called email. As my grandmother Louisa would say, the liar is picked up first, Counselor. Finally, that between the defence of Galicia and the defence of the People's Party you again opt -- and you have just done a barbaric exercise -- for the latter, even to the extreme of denying the obvious and being thrown into a defence of the central government that has disastrous treatment with Galicia, an unjustifiable breakdown of its investments, when investments paralyze in a scandalous manner, even those allocated in the general budgets of the State. The Council of Galicia, instead of claiming and standing against this situation, becomes an accomplice, and in that robbery of complicity, we must witness this continuing defense of the magnificent actions of Mr. Rajoy's Government. Do you know, Counsellor, that with which the State has ceased to execute in Galicia and that it was set up in the general budgets of the State, only in the last three years would more than 15,000 jobs have been generated? I don't doubt you know that because this same argument has been given by Minister De la Serna to put into effect the extraordinary road map, talking about the many jobs that would be generated. What it does not value is, precisely, that inaction in investments over these years has caused a conscious unemployment in the sector; those 15,000 jobs that could have been given and that were so precise in a sector so affected by the crisis. Because 15,000 jobs are not a small thing, are they? And, of course, for a family it's not the same thing to have worked five years ago to go do it within a year, of two or three; years of impoverishment for families. And if those works don't even go to Galicia, as you can understand, it's the worst scenario. Today the president shuts up; before the question of our spokesperson, he shuts down, before an information describing how for 2018 the EUR 2,200 million of the first phase of the extraordinary road plan has already been allocated to a series of works in the national territory. I tell him because, perhaps, he didn't get the message from the Meseta either: works in Murcia — as we said before — in Valencia, Burgos, Palencia, Albacete, Toledo, Girona, Cordoba and Castellón. Here I see a lot of Spanish Jacks, a lot of Aragonese Jacks, a lot of Sardinian Jacks and even Sevillens, but mills, women I see none of them. In Galicia we will continue to sing that black shadow, Counselor. [[Applause]] And, yes, I don't doubt that there will be waiters, many of them, at the inauguration of the AVE when it arrives in Galicia. And believe me that I and the whole Socialist Party hope that this will happen as soon as possible, believe us that it is. But explain to us: what is this Galician marginalization due to in the policies of the Ministry of Development? Because we're going to go back to reviewing some data from the Ministry of Development itself, and already considering what today, tonight, brought the messenger pigeon: the annual average of the Rajoy period's adjudications was 331 million, counting even the 1,176 of 2012, which largely came from previous year's bids. The annual average of the Zapatero period was 700 million. You once criticized that this was insufficient, today they are very happy with 357. Unbelievable! The brutal fall of 430 million/year, of more than 60%, cannot be explained by the economic crisis, and more when they are told they do not adjust to the programmed and planned in the general budgets of the state for Galicia, or they have been proposed not to be executed. We are tired, frankly tired, of so many lies in the makeup of the figures. The President of Galicia and members of the Government of Galicia have announced on several occasions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u264	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u265	...the privileged treatment that Galicia would have on the part of the state in the general budgets in recent years, but at all it has complied with the established, and, as I have already stated, to a far lesser extent even for the rest of autonomous communities. To finish up, Madam Counselor, we become more clear every day that Galicia's defense is the defense of the People's Party. Mr. Feijóo's government always chooses to put the party before the Greeks and the Greeks, and we regret that the Galician Union prefers to support and defend an uncompromising and disloyal government with Galicia and that prioritizes the defence of the People's Party over the interests of the Greeks. Black future shadow and black for Galicia as far as infrastructures, Counselor. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u266	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Mrs. Infrastructure and Housing Advisor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u267	Yes, Mrs. Pierres, I don't know why you're talking about a first phase of the ICP, I don't know what information you can get from phases... I think you gave data that aren't true, and you must have invented them, because there's no knowledge in any administration of phases that you've moved here; I don't think intentionally, at least by inventing a little about phases of the State Infrastructure Plan. In any case, I see that it is obvious what the Andalusian Government of the Socialist Party says about the privileges of Galicia. It is therefore an acknowledgement by the Community itself of the privileges of Galicia with the State's investments. I, in any case, to questions like those of the Socialist Party today, of course I confess that I feel like in the world backwards, because of the last 30 times that I attended the House, 19 were for opposition initiatives, and of those 19, 75% were for state competition issues. So, I insist, we should do it very well in the Council. And the People's Group asked 11 questions to the Council, all related to the competences of the Autonomous Community. So it's the world in reverse that the only party that controls the government is what the government supports, because you're asking questions to look for social media, but really control over the government, because you're not. I don't think they should give a lot of management and investment lessons in public works. Of course, when they're in the government they say one thing and when they're in the opposition, things are the opposite; there's the trajectory. You were a socialist government, a government in Madrid, with José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero and José Blanco, and in moments of greater economic kindness, because now we have three times less investments than at that time, when Minister José Blanco ruled. It's just like that! You were the ones who decided and left until the AP-9 enlargement works were financed from the increase in the rates of 1% cumulative — 1% — in the following year, 1% over 1%; then 1% out of 1%...; 1% cumulative for 20 years, and paying Audasa with an interest of 8% — in Audasa. Of course, a round business for Audasa. Therefore, Mrs. Pierres, thanks to the work and management of the Galician board, will not be carried out again in relation to AP-9 from the fees; therefore, I think that giving us lessons on management and public works investments does not seem serious to me. I'm sure they'll now demand that they go through the budget, but I think they're late, after all they've done in previous years. Now that the works are finished, of course, they want them to go through budget, when they've already left armoured and until they've climbed the beaches that scandalous way. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I continue. In 2006, that convention they made... I'm comparing management. And they also say that we don't do anything in public work, that they don't do anything in Madrid in public work, what do I do? Well, I contrast management and contrasting ways of performing the performances in the territory. In 2006, an agreement was signed in the Bipartite, in the Galician Union, ruinous, paying the Greeks 7 million euros. And by the way, you said here at that agreement to pay for the payout of Barcala's peas and Morrazo's: "Now yes, now there's a government that meets, who has succeeded in freeing the toll of Rande and Barcala's captive traffic with a solution. Applause for all, for all and forever." So, a job, of course, to find a solution. We have managed to get that solution to stop paying for the Greeks and that 400 million euros that compromised the budgets of the Galician Union — therefore, of all the Greeks — stop paying them; we have achieved something important in this AP-9 Commission. And also talking about autonomous highways, when you were ruling, they didn't put any bonus on autoroads in AG-55 and AG-57; four years of Bipartito, they increased the rates of those autonomous roads by 13.14%; so if we make the average in four years, an increase of 3.2% per year. As long as he ruled the current Council of Galicia, he did not do so, much less. I'm going to finish now, I don't have time. Of course, lessons, few, and I think we have transferred priority actions to the Ministry, which is working to execute them and, as I say, without taking account of the increase in fees: through budget or through the ICP; 600 million euros that we have demanded. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u268	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez. We suspended the session until 4:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u269	Good afternoon. We resumed the session. Question by Mr Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga and two other Members, by Mr P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the German Government in relation to the reform of the system of self-financing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u270	Mr. Fernández Leicega has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u271	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, good afternoon. Here again to talk about autonomic funding. About a year ago we partially agreed on a motion, and today, after that year, we are, I'm not saying that at the same point, some things have moved forward, but not where we would like to be all, among other things, because at that time at the Conference of Presidents it would be one year's deadline for, at the end of 2017, to have a review of the model that could even come into force since January 1, 2017, and we already know it's not, that it won't be that way. On this issue we have some agreements, we have some differences, and we also have some new issues to deal with, and that is why we bring this initiative. Questions that seem relevant to us. First, the calendar. The calendar is quite demanding. The president of the board has been with the presidents of other autonomous communities recently and they have signed a protocol, and in that protocol he refers to the rush to move forward the revision of a model because the electoral calendar next year and next year makes it that, if it's not this year, we may have to wait too long for there to be a revision of the model. So, we're, perhaps, in the last space of opportunity. I'd say, if there's no deal before summer, it's gonna be very complicated that we can have a model review, I mean, over the next three years. The Andalusian elections were called, I don't know when, but, in any case, in the month of January, for once the four years of vigilment of your parliament are over. We therefore have difficulties with the timetable. And on the other hand, so that you can move forward in that discussion, you have to form a viable government in Catalonia, because without Catalonia you must not face this review, among other things because we must not give you any chance to singularize yourself. Catalonia must be in the general rule, and if it's not when it's negotiated, it's an opportunity to apply for specific funding, and I don't think we should be there. So it's a calendar problem. Second question, also important, where we have some difference. You have moved forward a year ago, and you know today in several signed documents, in several protocols signed with other autonomous communities, which it is necessary for the Central Government to make an effort to ensure sufficientness and thus restore a certain vertical balance between administrations. The Committee of Experts, which issued its report at the end of July, accounted for at least 16. billion, between 16,000 and 30,000 million. But we're still 16,000 million. It is an important figure, but it is not impossible at all; that is to say, it is 1.6% of the gross domestic product, which is nothing wrong, but, in any case, that same commission of experts said that in order to restore the weight of the social expenditure of the autonomous communities in relation to social expenditure, it was necessary that this should be increased by almost five points. We are talking about the need for considerable effort to restore that vertical balance and also so that the status quo clause can be operationalized that the Galician Union defends, with the other autonomous communities, and that we also defend, but that, as we all know, so that the status quo clause does not mean that everything remains the same, it is necessary to put additional resources. Because if everything stays the same for some and some improves it's that there are additional resources and, if not, this is not possible. So for these two reasons, additional resources are needed. So my first important question is, how much are you willing to talk about? How reasonable would it be for you to make the additional effort by the General Government of the State to ensure that Galicia was satisfied? And secondly, how much would it take for Galicia to be satisfied? How much should you get as a percentage on those funds, or in funds in absolute terms? Either way, I'm going. How much do Galicia need, 1,000 million? A 7% of those 16,000 million would be a reasonable amount to say: is this model a satisfactory model? You said many times that 2009 wasn't. Well, now we have the opportunity, when we review it, to say: 2009 was not, because our satisfaction is achieved from an additional 1 billion euros, or whatever. You tell them how much this figure is and we can discuss it. I think the Government is responsible for having some information on this issue because it has more means, more possibilities, and has other instruments that we don't have. We're worried about something in the last signed protocols. We already know that they are a result of commitments and that necessarily each autonomous community is trying to introduce its script, but speaking, as is quoted in textual terms, as in the criteria of characterization, of expenditure needs, of fixed costs, of low density or surface, which are not at the same level as others who are interested in Galicia but who are already in the model, such as dispersion or aging, somehow reduces our negotiating capacity. We're worried about that. I know, yes, of course, if you want me to sign Aragon, the low density will appear in the discussion, but accept it without further and without any commitment I think it weakens our position, among other things because it's not clear that low density itself is a factor that affects service delivery costs. It's not clear. A low density, if the whole population is concentrated in Zaragoza, reduces service delivery costs, does not raise them. So we're concerned about these concessions, fruit of negotiation, but they may have some cost for Galicia. And then there's that link between demography and autonomic funding, because of course a regression demography or increasing the percentage of people of a certain age end up gravitating on social spending, on health spending, etc., and reducing, on the other hand, the need for education expenditure. That's already in the model. It may be collected imperfectly and it must be improved, I agree; we have already proposed a year ago to collect overaging. But when such a broad bond is made and made through low birth, this concerns us a little. Why? Because the discussion of the model of self-financing shouldn't emerge from the social needs in services to the population, from the services to the population. This is what is involved in autonomic financing. Then there are the European or Spanish Structural Funds, in the case of the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, which have to meet the development needs of the territories or the specific capital needs that generate certain circumstances. But, mixed up, I don't think it's a good strategy and I think it opens up some complicated flank. Finally, in this first intervention, I believe that we have a slightly different view of the issue of debt and of the extraordinary mechanisms of financing, because we have, firstly, started that these mechanisms are already a factor of discrimination — as we have ever discussed here. Not too big? Well, maybe not, but they finance some autonomous communities with 150 euros per inhabitant per year and Galicia with 3, and that introduces a very significant difference which causes us, from being a little above average in the financing per inhabitant adjusted to the average of the communities of the common regime, to be below. This is the first thing to correct. And to correct this is to allow autonomous communities to return to the debt market, because that would mean that interest rates would no longer be subsidized. It may not be very important right now, but if, as it seems, monetary policy in the United States and in Europe is hardened, it may start to take more importance than it had before. And, of course, so that they can go back to the market, because it will be necessary to remove, restructure, create a perpetual debt — let's call it what we want —. The mechanisms give a little equal, i.e., to withdraw from the liabilities of the autonomous communities important amounts of debt they have today. And so if this is going to happen, because it's necessary for them to go back to the market, because I think we have to go to an equal solution, and the equal solution that doesn't harm us is that we can all go to a limit to that debt-free restructuring, which would treat all autonomous communities alike, would allow them to return to the market and would also eliminate the financing mechanisms that exist today through the subsidy, the interest that is implicit in the FLA and the Fund of Financial Facility. So I think we should also agree on this. I'd like to know your opinion, your position, and then the motion that will come out of this interpellation can reach an agreement that made Galicia's position on this matter. As I've wasted my time, I'll leave something else that I had for the last intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u272	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u273	Mr. President. Your Honor, once again, I am delighted to be able to explain and reiterate to you in Parliament our position on this matter of utmost importance to Galicia, a position which, since we have already presented it on several occasions in this House, is known. I remind you that for the current German Government, the current system does not meet the demands of Galicia or the expectations that have been generated at its own time. And as you were the main ones, we pointed out the growing deficits of adequacy and equity. After its implementation, it is clear that the general regime communities do not count on sufficient funding to meet our spending skills. We mainly attributed these deficiencies to two problems of the current model: on the one hand, as designed, since it was not prioritized to cover the actual costs of providing public services, but it was conditioned, as it is well known, by a political pact between the Government of Spain at that time and the parties that governed Catalonia to maintain the Government of that community. And the second factor is how it's evolving. Its evolution does not respond to the purposes or expectations, and it has been clearly insufficient to meet the expenditure needs we need in Galicia, which forced our Government to compensate for various financial measures, of which we have often spoken in this Parliament. Allow me, too, in this first intervention on my part, to adhere to the questions, to a number seven, which you have put into your inquiry. I'll try to be clear enough. First of all, I want to tell you that I'm surprised because in your pursuit of wanting to put numbers without more, I think we're losing rigour in formulation. I'll explain. I mean, in your attempt to put down previous duties, if you try to compromise a percentage of additional resources in relation to the current system, we haven't analyzed enough data that is already known. So you ask for a minimum of 10% additional resources on those corresponding to the results of the current model during your first year, when it turns out that in 2009, which was the first year of application, the resources settled for Galicia were 5,587 million euros, and in 2015 they increased to 6,744; that is, 20.7% more. Allow me, Your Honor, to tell you, with all due respect, that we should not try to compromise the Government with figures and that I think we should all agree by demanding so many times the repeated enough self-financing and dynamic. We don't have enough in the first year of departure if dynamic evolution has not helped to guarantee all the multiple services that we have to provide. Until the Ministry of Business makes a proposal regarding the objectives of adequacy and levelling, as well as the instruments for achieving them, it seems to be a little bit of a point to ask you to keep up with it when we are designing a model that gives stability and solvency. Your Honor, an increase in a global percentage does not guarantee that a particular community will increase these resources in this same percentage; I reiterate our position — and I think we are in agreement there —, not being financed in territories, we are funding public services that care for people. Secondly, on which Spain must approach the average proportion of expenditure in the countries of the Union, I tell you that this question simplifies to distort a matter which is very complex for us. It will — I believe — agree with me that this variable, in terms of health, education and social policy, would be representative if the composition of the population by old tranches was similar to that of Europe, but it does not make sense that one country spends the same thing as another in GDP or in health if the weight of the population, as we have, over 65 years old, is far from any other parameter. The same for education and the same for social services. And on the income side, income and fiscal capacity of a territory is a limiting factor in adjusting public and private spending, so it would have made sense to compare expenditure on GDP to equal tax capacity. Therefore, the most appropriate thing to make a serious formulation of this issue is to try to bring fiscal capacity to the European average and the weight of the various spending policies with regard to income. Thirdly, on weights and rankings, I assure you that what matters to the German Government is the euro per settler. We want the financing system to bring more Europeans per settler to finance our public services better. What's more, we bet on the total equal financing per settler, because no citizen can be worth more or less depending on the place of residence. I hope we agree on that, too. Fourthly, about not losing absolute resources in the new funding system, I can only tell you that we fully agree. Fifthly, with regard to the claim that the rate of evolution that applies to the different components of the system refers to nominal GDP or the collection of resources, global taxpayers, we are talking about very technical issues which I think they are familiar with right now, and are discussing within the Financial and Fiscal Policy Council. But if you want the opinion, which is the one formulated, Galicia proposes a mixed evolution of GDP and tax collection. For what? To bring more stability to the evolution of our resources. Sixthly, on avoiding discrimination between autonomous communities by the application of extraordinary financing mechanisms, the first thing I want to make clear is that these extraordinary mechanisms are not part of the financing system, so they should not be dealt with within the model definition. We understand that in the short term we must disappear, if we truly believe what the state of autonomy means. Galicia's position was and is still very clear: we are not in favour of condemning debt to communities, because that meant discriminating the autonomys that, like Galicia, better managed and met their goals. That's why it's good that we're not going to take off our debt, as we always stand for it. Another thing is that we are not opposed to finding a solution for the most indebted communities. In this sense, possible debt restructuring will have to lead to the grant of financial benefits equivalent to those which do not need restructuring, as is the case with Galicia. And, seventhly, whether the delivery system should be reformed to your account, we have a bad example of what had been done in that case too — and I am sorry to mention once again to Mr Zapatero's Government — the deliveries to the account of the years 2008 and 2009, which resulted in the negative liquidations of 5,500 and 18,739 million euros, respectively. It is therefore necessary to seek a predictable, transparent and stable system of determination of these deliveries to the account, which is not simple, but is also working on this issue in the Technical Committee on Evaluation. Having said this, I would like to point out that the position of the German Government, which, to a large extent, we share with you, Mr. Leicega, so I have just heard you and what I have heard you over the past year, is that we are for a model of financing that guarantees the principles of adequacy and equality. In Galicia, I think we have two advantages: the first is the solvency situation of our finances, which allows us to deal with negotiation without any kind of anxiety and looking for the right moment. And secondly, we have to think that there are important points of agreement at this time between Galicia and other autonomous communities. Furthermore, the foundations have been laid since the Conference of Presidents a year ago, which basically referred to three principles: the actual cost of services, multilaterality and stability. They are essential principles, because it is essential to achieve the actual cost of public services, and for that we need to know what it costs them in each community, with each of their uniqueities and specificities, particularly in health care, when it represents approximately 41% of the expenditure. Because it is also essential that the resources we integrate into the system are distributed multilaterally and because it is essential that the new financing system brings stability and a vocation of permanence. I'm done. I believe that in Galicia we have clear priorities and strategy. We obviously maintain the criteria that were agreed upon with your group, and we work without anxiety, with the tranquillity that gives you the duties done and with the spirit of reaching the greatest political consensus to defend the position that interests our autonomous community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u274	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u275	Again, good afternoon. Allow me, Counselor, to ask you to agree with your president. You must agree with him, because when I read the result of "First meeting of the governments of Galicia, Asturias, Aragon and Castilla and León.", with the Anagram of the Union, for example, I see to contrast with what you say, which says textually: "The reform of the financing system should address the situation of extraordinary mechanisms to support the liquidity of autonomous communities." You tell me they shouldn't be approached, but the president says they should be approached. So I say, well, let's approach her, as the president says, and I'll go higher, and you'll understand that she does so. Let us approach her, as the President has said, and approach her in such a way that it will prove beneficial to us. And I say, how does it benefit us? So let's make a reference: what is in financial stability standards is 13% of gross domestic product, like the reference debt for communities. So let's rebuild, let's condemn, let's make the debt perpetual up there, but on a condition: that those communities that have a debt with the FLA or the Financial Facility Fund above this amount, have, at the same time, a singular amount of debt to be brought into the market. So what we're doing is we're reducing the weight for the community and forcing us to get out of the market, because I think this is the key to the matter in order to end the extraordinary funding mechanisms, as, of course, they propose most of the experts who talk about this. And look, you tell me they're going to a mixed system, but what they just approved is that "The system must guarantee dynamic adequacy through the linkage of the resources that the financing system assigns to the evolution of the total tax revenues of the state." This isn't a mixed system, it's a system that says "connected to the state's total tax revenues," which may not seem bad to me, but there's already a reference here. Well, let's take it as a reference. If this is the position of the Union, I think it's all right. What I don't think is very reasonable is that it's this one and the other. Let's say it has to be one, and this I think is what we must wake up. And in relation to the vertical leveling figures, it's not that you have an obsession, it's that you say in this protocol that you just signed, "The correction of the funding deficits in the services that the current model presents." Well, what are those deficits? What are they? You just told me now again that the system in 2009 for us was not enough, that it presented a static, dynamic deficit, I don't know that... well, tell me a number, because from there we can talk. Nothing else. It's as simple as that. Is it not worth your reference, the European Union's average? Well, okay, we set up another one. Do we make a reference based on the great cost functions? It may be, but tell me something, don't tell me: oh! that we can't do it, because, then, I know what happens, that you think negotiation is going to go wrong. They don't want to compromise by giving themselves a number, and then they can say: in spite of everything, we're doing very well. But, of course, that's not to play, that's to play with the marked letters, and I think that we shouldn't accept this in this Parliament. And I think that's what you're playing at, so I think it's okay to get some things together, but we should also be clear about others. And that's the reality, Counselor; that's the reality, there's no other reality. Because when you tell me that what matters to you is what happens in absolute terms, I tell you that it's not what they do, by the way, every morning here on the investment business, which is always percentage. They never talk about euros in absolute terms, but now they do. Well, we accept that of the euro in absolute terms, but what you are telling me is that Galicia is willing to lose relative weight as a result of funding. That's what you're telling me. So, if so, tell me, and we can establish a much simpler trading base. By the way, to leave him alone, the interpretation he made of the first question — which, in any case, is a question, it is not an affirmation — of my interpellation is that during his first year he refers to the new model, the first year of the new model, not the previous model. I mean, what the question is, in the first year of the new model, does it seem reasonable to you that Galicia has an additional 10% funding? Is that the reference? It's about the last year of the previous model, not about the first year of the previous model; that makes no sense. That's how it must be interpreted. The other one, of course, makes no sense, Counselor. You can't make that interpretation. And as for the deliveries to the account, because I agree with you that the deliveries to the account in 2008 and 2009, as a result of a brutal fall in financial income, worked very badly and caused a serious problem to the communities, but what I'm going to have to explain is why that system hasn't changed since today. This system hasn't changed, and there are technical possibilities to do so, which are written by several experts and which you probably know as well as I do. So there was a political decision to say: let's go on the same way. In any case, let's act on the returns, but not on the deliveries to the account. And I say, if we're in the model review, because we're also dealing with this problem, which I think is a problem because it wasn't well designed. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u276	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close the interrogation, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u277	Thank you again, Mr. President. I don't think there's any kind of contradiction between any of the parameters you've entered here, according to the protocol signed with 4 communities, curiously 2 of the People's Party and 2 of the PSOE. I think that's healthy. You yourself said in your formulation that all protocols have a lot of what we have in common, and from my answer you cannot deduce, as you just said, that, for example, the option, when we make the evolution of the system, of mixed evolution shocks what is collected. In no way, I have just told you that, on the one hand, you can make the index that is related to the evolution of taxes and, on the other, to GDP. I don't know where the contradiction is, don't try to find me... as well as in certain quantifications, that you ask this part of the house, to see who's the smartest, if you hit the increase, that, connected to the adequacy, if it happens in the model, or if Galicia suddenly pulls out one percentage or another. I don't think it's the debate we're interested in, Mr. Leicega. Three fundamental parameters were introduced in my first intervention: firstly, I believe that, having done the duties of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, we can work without any kind of anxiety, as if they have other autonomous communities, in an objective way even. This about getting to know him. I think it's very good -- it was my call to your group too to follow this path -- that we follow the line of criteria agreed upon at the time. I know we're going to have differences, but I think we have much more in common, because so too you will listen — and you will better care about — the position of Galicia. On the other hand, I think it's also very healthy to continue to weave complications with the rest of the autonomous communities. So, Mr. Leicega, I think this is the essential in these three paths, and I think we should go that way. Let's take a brief look at the steps taken. I think it's good that, in January, we have agreed on the representative of the autonomous community in the Committee of Experts; I think that's a good sign. And it's a good sign that in February we have agreed the basic criteria in number five: to defend criteria such as equity, solidarity, stability, financial autonomy and institutional loyalty I think it is very healthy; to properly weigh costs I think it is very healthy; to prioritize equal coverage of needs I think it is very healthy; to participate in decisions on taxes when they affect us on their bases I think it is very healthy; as it is very healthy to defend that the central government allows autonomous communities that we are in fiscal consolidation almost as important as it is not relaxation, but rather the differentiated consideration of what the spending rule is, which is what will give us in the medium term a real capacity for action to any government. We have therefore drawn up the Galician proposal — I believe it is — taking very seriously what was agreed at the time of February, a year ago, in this Parliament. It's very marked the financing model that should be... There are two fundamental parameters: the dynamic enough and the total leveling that we just introduced. That's the principle of equality taken to the extreme, and that's why we accept the adjusted population as a variable of distribution. But you also know how I am that the adjusted resident needs even an appreciation, and in certain protocols it's very difficult to get to that kind of situation. In the current model, obviously, it weighs too much of the generic population. And I repeat again, we have very clear what we don't want. We do not want to introduce funds from both the European Regional Policy and the Spanish Economic Development Policy, that of the FCI. That's a separate piece, it doesn't have to do with the financing system. As must also be a separate piece of the extraordinary mechanisms that currently have conditioned the results since 2012. We have to isolate ourselves. That's not a financing system. And we're in no way talking about the fact that we don't consider the special situation that certain autonomous communities have. I simply said in my first speech that this has some benefits that, on an equivalent basis, have to be transferred to autonomous communities like Galicia, which are in practice fiscal consolidation. So in my intervention, I'd like to have four things left. I think we have clear ideas and we are going to defend them firmly. I believe it is essential that the Government and its group continue to seek understanding, and therefore we must continue with rigour, with responsibility, without any kind of anxiety or improvisation. I think we're prepared, honestly; we've been defending the same since 2009. But the most important thing is to achieve at this moment a consensus that makes it easier for you to maintain our country position — as I said before — to be heard and taken into account as a single voice. I think our citizens deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u278	Thank you, Counselor. We continue with point 8 of the agenda, which is that of questions to the Government. Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the contents of the last report of the Committee on Monitoring and Follow-up to the Galego Programme for the Care of Acute Microcardial Infarction
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u279	Mr. Núñez Centeno, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u280	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counselor. The Register Galego de Infarto Agudo de Miocardio was born of a non-legislative proposal by the People's Group debated in the middle of December 2014 and whose text urged the Government to have a unique register of the Greek field that collects all information about morbidity and mortality in relation to acute myocardial infarction, and in the second point, that the data reflected in the Register be taken into account to adapt human and material resources to the care needs of management structures. The first point was adopted unanimously and the second point was supported only by the People's Group. We have already talked about this hemicycle of the study Highlight, Resources and Quality in Cardiology, which is presented annually by the Spanish Society of Cardiology, and that an 2015 report could draw interesting conclusions. The recommendation of a cardiology room for every 400,000 inhabitants was exceeded in Galicia, which has 1 per 305,000. And the recommendation that each area for the implementation of interventionism has a population of more than 600,000 inhabitants for training issues and practices were also carried out in Galicia with 3 areas of between 750,000 and 1,070,000 inhabitants. In April 2015 you signed a document, agreed with all the heads of Galician Cardiology Service, so you agreed to have that record available to extract information and provide prospective follow-up to patients so that any decision-making could be based on objective and real results. In the data presented in 2016 by the Director General of Health Care, it was obvious that although differences in times of care had been evident since the time of contact with the health service until the procedure was initiated in the Hemodynamics room, these differences did not exist in the real time of ischemia, but also that none of those times had influence on the mortality of patients according to their place of residence. Then, and on other occasions, we have already urged the Council to continuously evaluate this data so that, if there were, with the passage of time and the analysis of a greater number of cases, there would be some significant variation, if it were to take the necessary care measures, as was requested at the initiative adopted in this Parliament. In spite of the above, and in order to fulfil the parliamentary mandate, the Signing Members put the following question in full: what is the content of the last report of this Committee on Monitoring and Follow-up of the Galician Programme for the Attention to Acute Infarction of Miocardium? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u281	Thank you, Mr. Núñez. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Núñez Centeno, in Galicia since 2006 we have had a Greek program of attention to myocardial infarction, Progaliam; a program that establishes the least morbidity and mortality due to this cause, seeking an early diagnosis and treatment. Its objective is to improve the patient's quality of life expectations with infarction as well as to promote equity in access to health care services. During all these years the program has been strengthened and is recognized as one of the best in Spain and Europe. On December 3, 2014, a non-legislative proposal by the Galician People's Party was adopted, as you said, in this Parliament, which urged the creation of a single register of the Greek field to collect all information on the morbidity and mortality of acute myocardial infarction with data provided directly by the cardiology services of hospitals and 061. Through the Order of May 11, 2015, the Galego de Infarto Agudo de Miocardio was created, Regaliam, and the public appearance in the DOG of May 15, 2015, and had certain objectives, which were: to determine the epidemiological, clinical and therapeutic characteristics of the affected population, to provide, through different quality indicators, epidemiological and assistance data precise for effective and efficient planning of material and human resources and to evaluate the effectiveness, effectiveness and efficiency of the care network in relation to this disease. A follow-up commission is hereby set up with an Instruction of May 15, 2015, which is responsible for keeping the record up-to-date, monitoring the activity and drawing up periodic reports. It consists of representatives of the Galego Health Service at coordination level and 061, and of 7 cardiologists proposed by the heads of Cardiology Service of each hospital. The commission assesses the data of the Register objectively and strictly technically, and its reports are consensual and signed by all its members — three reports to this day. The results indicators that were chosen following a line in line with the Spanish Society of Cardiology are the number of cases, the incidence of the number of cases per 100,000 inhabitants/year, reperified patients, the number of first anxioplasties performed, 30-day mortality in patients without shock or cardiac arrest, and finally also the time of reperfusion since it is the first medical contact at the opening of the artery. After twenty-five months of operation, we can say that evolution is very good, showing the following data: number of cases, 2,352; incidence of number of cases per 100,000 inhabitants, 42.2; patients re-infused, 2,227, 95% — that is, a high percentage of cases where the artery affected was re-analysed — the number of first anxioplasties performed was 2,131, 91% also, and mortality at 30 days without shock or cardiorespiratory arrest, 2.4%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u283	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u284	And the standard marks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u285	He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u286	...—as you know—less than 5%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u287	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u288	Well, thank you, President. The data presented, Mr Counsellor, seem to confirm the usual statements by Members and Members of this group on the quality and the highest level of the Galician Health Service and, above all, its professionals. From the People's Group we have seen moving to Galician citizenship a clear and unequivocal message that attention to acute myocardial infarction in Galicia is very good, as much as some are committed to denying it and despite all the figures presented in this Parliament on various occasions and comparing it with other autonomous communities. The difference between you, opposition lords, and we are that in the People's Group we manage scientific data and evidence, which you don't usually value. I don't have to remember here that when you ruled or expected to do hemodynamics in Lugo's hospital, you didn't see fit to open a room of this specialty in Ourense. It had to be the Government of the People's Party who had put these services into operation and who had set up Regaliam, with the commitment to adjust health care for acute myocardial infarction to the results of this study. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I would also like to highlight the importance of the prograliam, which you mentioned, the Greek program of attention to acute myocardial infarction, which was a pioneer in the state and which has enabled the patient's expectations and quality of life to be improved, promoting equity in access to services in a community with an important geographical dispersion as is the Galician community. Our community, Galicia, was in 2016 the second autonomous community in acute myocardial infarction survival of patients transferred by 061. In this case, we would like you to add some more information — if you think it is convenient — and that you would need us if the report you are presenting today indicates the need for some assistance from staff or technology. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u289	Thank you, Mr. Núñez. Close this question, Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u290	I just think the important thing is not only putting projects on the table, but also evaluating them to make decisions in that direction. As I say, the mortality rate is very good, 2.4%, when the Spanish Society of Cardiology speaks less than 5%. And we have the reperfusion times, which have been going down, and we are improving, but especially in Ourense and Lugo has a time that for us must be corrected. That is why the follow-up committee group at their meeting on January 26 has set out a number of measures to be taken to improve. I can tell them one at a time. The first is that we will carry out a population information campaign to increase awareness of the identification of acute myocardial infarction symptoms, so that the population knows exactly what the symptoms are, following a little that we're using in the Ictus Plan, where the famous three Fs — speaking, force and face — have arrived at the population and today are known to many people. And, in addition, you have to indicate that the best way to get attention to an acute myocardial infarction is to contact through 061. Therefore, the campaign is: symptoms and the ideal model to contact the health service. Second, we will review the isochrons of the Public Foundation of 061 for the transfer of patients to the centres of ability to perform a closest primary anxioplasty. We have reviewed — and are usually done on a regular basis — and we are going to do so in the coming months. We will also study with 061 the need for increased advanced vital support resources, with the aim of reducing ischemia times with the necessary means to take out hospital care and inter-hospital transport. Four. We will analyse in detail all the factors that determine the times that occur within the hospital, as long as they access the Emergency Service, either through 061 or through the patient himself. And we'll try to improve the times that pass — as I say — between the arrival in the ER and the entry into the Hemodynamics room. And finally, considering the longer time until the reperfusion and the distances between the Hemodynamic units of Lugo and Ourense and the power stations — where they go on schedule and where they are not active — we will extend that time both in Lugo and in Ourense to try to double the hours of attention at that time. We're going to be monitoring the results to see exactly how it affects, of course, reperfusion times, because we understand that what is time, mortality right now, is a very low mortality, which is going to be hard to reduce. But, of course, we're putting, as I say, all the follow-up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u291	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u292	And, therefore, we will continue, through the technical commission, evaluating all these measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u293	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u294	...in the coming months to see if they're effective. And, of course, it's a clear sample of the Galician Union's bet on improving health services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u295	Thank you. Question from Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions planned by the Government of Galicia in relation to the demands of workers of the Administration of Justice in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u296	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u297	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mr. Rueda, between November 16 of last year and today there was a concentration, several concentrations, two general strikes, a demonstration of nearly 2,000 people in the streets of Santiago and an indefinite strike since February 7th. We've been on an indefinite strike for about ten days; about 80% of the average of the judges' paralysis; thousands of suspended trials; in the Social Court of Lugo they're already marking for the year 2021; Lexnet saturated, to the point that in the division office in Vigo officials who are in minimum services saved yesterday from the collapse of the computer system; and people affected by their rights. The reason for this is the claim to end the discrimination of the officials of Justice in Galicia with regard to officials of other autonomous communities of Justice as well. There are five demands. Counselor, we told you the first time we spoke here in November: it's not just economic. This is the first time in history when the officials of Justice in Galicia go to strike and march on the street in protest. And the question is that you couldn't imagine something like this happened to him; you're in a dead end and by your pride you don't know how to get out. So much so that we'd like to know why you never meet with the unions, Counselor. Thanks to these kind of photographs and the media, which interview him, they know what his face is like, because he really doesn't see it in front of him. [[Mrs. Vilan Lorenzo shows a photograph]] What are you doing? You say one thing here, you vote one thing here and then you tell the Director General of Public Service to say the opposite. You make statements that don't help, Counselor. "The Union will not change its offer," "the proposal of the Government of Greece will not vary," "the Government will not accept a pulse," "I hope the unions will come into line." Pure dialogue. And the president of the board says, "unions don't properly represent the feelings of most public workers." Do you really think that these brilliant interventions will help unlock the situation? We don't think so. You want to go to the normal way in which Justice works. The one of Gallardón's judicial rates is the normal form, that of the obstruction of Justice by destroying computers on Genoa Street, that of the shortage of officials who say the superior prosecutor himself, that of paralyzing the rates of free justice between 2010 and 2016, or that didn't create a single new trial in Galicia since 2009, that one that hasn't sat for nearly nine years with the workers or that one who refuses to create more judges of violence against women. That's the normality of Justice that you're looking for -- it seems to be. I wish you could, Counselor, unlock the situation, but for that, you have to turn to confidence-building and learn how to listen, Mr. Rueda, which is the basis for dialogue and negotiation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u298	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u299	I'm gonna finish it, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u300	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u301	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u302	Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Vilan, you say we've been on an indefinite strike for about ten days. No, we've got eleven, today plus three...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u304	Excuse me, for a moment. House services, tell our guests that they have to sit down. No, no, they have to sit down. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's the rules that govern the public that's in the rostrum. No more. Thank you. Whenever you want, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u305	Thank you, Mr. President. He said it's not more than ten days, it's eleven, with today -- we have them perfectly numbered -- plus three strikes before. I'm sorry that I didn't tell you about the seriousness you require, just as I regret that you didn't even ask your question to talk about this particular conflict, but you have to go, as always, to other things that may matter to your party, but they don't matter either to the Administration of Justice or to the resolution of this conflict, and you can't even fill the time of the question. I'll, of course, fill it up. I will tell you that you ask what we are doing to fulfil Parliament's mandate and try to resolve the conflict. Well, to negotiate, since the first day, Mrs Vilán, to negotiate. But not by political pressure, as you say in the question, or by mobilization, but by conviction, because we are convinced that this is what we have to do, and for that we have to make proposals, that's what we have to do. I suppose you'll know that on the 7th and the 20th of December; on the 3rd, the 9th, the 19th and the 31st of January; and on the 16th, the 19th and the 20th of February, until yesterday — as you knew — there were meetings until yesterday. There was no meeting today because the union party got up from the negotiating table. I'm glad they're here today, I'm sorry they're not at the negotiating table, because if we weren't negotiating today too. But I'm glad they're here today, to listen to each other's reasons, but we're negotiating. In fact, as you say, there were five points in the negotiation, not just the economics, there were five points. And I suppose you'll know how the five points are negotiated. I want to read here exactly what was — summarized — the proposal of the Galician Council, of which we have always been talking but especially these two days. Consolidation of squares, one two points. They'll turn into fixed 36 reinforcement posts. These squares, when an agreement is reached, can be offered in the following contest that is convened and will allow 36 officials and officials from Greece who are not currently working in Galicia to come to work in Galicia; 6 new management squares, 24 processing, 6 aid, of which 16 will be in the province of Coruña, 5 in Lugo, 5 in Ourense and 10 in Pontevedra. That's one of the points to wake up now, to wake up by at least from Galician Union. Point 3, replacement of amortised squares in areas of special concern. Those squares included in the management plan that were not created in another organ or service will be created negotiatedly where necessary, particularly in common services, which centralize and improve the services rendered to the citizen within the framework of the new judicial office. Another offer on the table that could be agreed upon by now, at least on the side of Galician Union. I guess they'll tell you that too, so don't say we're not negotiating later. Point 4, temporary incapacity. The modification of the legal regime — I suppose you will know, as a lawyer you are — depends on the change at the national level. The Galician Union has already said that we will adopt the most favourable part of the agreement at the national level, not only for the workers and workers of Justice, but also for all the workers in the service of the Galician Union, as I suppose it will agree, too, because it cannot be a yes and no. Hey, everybody does, especially for a favourable measure. On substitutions, there's already agreement. Vertical replacements, so they can cover when there is vertical replacement. That could start.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u306	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u307	We're leaving the economic part for the last point, but please don't say we're not negotiating or reporting well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u308	Thank you, Vice President, thank you. Replica, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u309	Thank you, President. The ability to include questions or answers in time is not only on this bench, since it is also in yours, because you left a point along the way; if there are five, you only spoke of four; you see that capabilities are reciprocal. [[Applause]] In any case, Counselor, this isn't about abilities or disabilities, it's going to sit down and be willing to negotiate; that's what it's about. And the ones you may have to stop because of your disability are the general director of Justice and also the general director of the Public Service, for mouths and for telling the workers of Justice that they are going to compete in the rest of the country if they're not happy with the Council of Galicia. Maybe you should stop them two and get yourself directly negotiating so you can say "we're negotiating." You're not negotiating, you're negotiating these two gentlemen who don't care about the matter, they're the ones who're negotiating. Counselor, I'll give you just one example. From the IT you said in this House, literally, "We agree to push the expansion of the assumptions in which one can establish a supplement to achieve the maximum, 100% of the payouts, thus equating the assumptions established for judges, prosecutors and judiciaries." That's what you said there, standing there. Where I said, I say Diego, it seems. The offer is the same as last week's offer, that three months ago, you didn't vary your offer, they follow exactly the same place, and what the workers' representatives ask is they move. But not only do they ask for it, but they also ask for it by the workers themselves who are on indefinite strike, counselor, they are on indefinite strike, the first time in the history of Justice in Galicia, they are the first in Spain. And you're responsible, and you're what you have to face. Counsellor, they are economically asking for 0.05% of the 2018 budget, less than you have run all year 2016...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u310	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u311	...and also until the last quarter...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u312	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u313	...of 2017. What are you going to do, Counselor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u314	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Close this question, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u315	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Vilan, indeed, I have left the economic claim for the end, because I consider it the most important; I consider it to be regarded by the workers and regarded it by people in general. Today, even yesterday, by the way, they said that they didn't agree to negotiate the points separately and that there would be no agreement if there were no agreement on the economic side too. That's why I left him in the end. Because it's the part — let's talk clearly — about what there is discussion and the part where I'm sure, because you, like, will not even know, what workers and workers in the administration of justice say that this is the fundamental part. And we're conscious. That's why we made an offer, and that's why, if what was asked is the average of what the workers of Justice perceive in the rest of Spain, adding up all the autonomous communities, that offer from the Galician Union you say it didn't move in three months. Let them report it well, Mrs Vilan, at least to ask the question. There was a first offer from the Galician Board, a second and a third, only ten days ago, which places an average of 1,000 euros per worker per year the wages at the top of the average. But look at them without their collaboration. He said I'm very glad that the workers' representatives are here to know what they're doing. You in your question speak — and indeed so — that the first mobilizations were in mid-November. Do you know when the deadline for tabling amendments to the budget ends? Ten days later. So you were fully aware. Do you know — and you know it too much — that the representatives of the workers know, because I'm sure you didn't tell them how much money to raise those salaries were in the amendments that you presented to the budgets? Zero euro; zero euro, Mrs Vilán, zero euro; amendments to the whole. [[Murmurs.]] And it's good that the representatives of the workers know and through them all the workers of Justice. You, who are claiming the increase, when you had the opportunity to propose this increase in amendments to the whole, not only for the remuneration of the workers, for Justice, zero euros. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was all right, there was no need to put a euro in 550 million that they asked to move from the budgets of the Union to other games. Zero euros to Justice. But then, on the second chance, you amend the articulate, you were already saying that this was necessary. And it's good they know; if they don't know, it's because you sure as hell didn't tell them. Do you know how much the Socialist Party has proposed to increase its remuneration in amendments to the articulate? Zero euros, Mrs Vilan, zero euros. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And then I ask him, what's the matter? [[Murmurs.]] What do you explain when you tell them to support your claims? Tell them I didn't know?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u316	Quiet, quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u317	Tell them I didn't know, Mrs. Vilan? What do you tell them? What'd you forget? What were more important things?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u318	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u319	What do you tell them one thing and when you have a chance to materialize it does another? Be consistent, be consistent, if you want to be created. The Galician Union is making an offer that, if it depended on its amendments, was zero euros. [[Murmurs.]] He didn't ask for a euro of increase for the employees of the Administration of Justice, he didn't ask for a euro of increase.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u320	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u321	We did propose.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u322	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u323	I'm just making a call to responsibility, to keep negotiating. I beg you not to qualify as ridiculous a raise of money...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u324	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u325	...that comes out of the budget of the Greeks, and we will continue to negotiate to reach an agreement. If it was for you, zero euros. That you know and repeat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u326	Thank you. Question by Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the knowledge by the Government of Galicia of the future forecasts of the Government of the State regarding the narrow railways in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u327	Whenever you want. Give a voice to Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u328	Thank you, Mr. President. How fortunate there is the possibility of modifying by law budgets with another law that can be approved with a sufficient parliamentary majority! [[Applause]] In any case, I haven't come here to talk about budgets of the Galician board or spending commitments. I came to ask the Counsellor, whom I thank for her presence and greeting, about the state in which the narrow Spanish railway is located, very well known to all in this autonomous community, in the north of the autonomous community. [[Feve]] And today, surprisingly, as it has always been, I expected certain media to respond previously to what would be the interventions of the Council of Galicia, the Government of Galicia, in this plenary session. But it turns out that today it is published in La Voz de Galicia that "rehears the protests of Fever users for delays and transhipments" and refers to an incident that took place yesterday when travelers from a train to Oviedo stayed at the station where there was a train, which was not a machinist, and this kind of machine requires some training to be piloted; that is, you can't get there any one and say, "Come up, I'll take you to Oviedo." [[Murmurs.]] This is a trend, it's a trend, because it's common -- and you know it and we all know it -- that there are delays and cancellations on trains, a recent two and a half hour delay that caused a boar. Home!, the Fever is not a big train, it is not a big train, but the boar had to have a considerable size. They're getting cancer, as I said, for lack of mechanics, trains. There's a need for reviewers. The lack of reviewers means that there are not only travellers who can not pay the services, but that these travellers are not counted for the purpose of using that train. And besides, there are inadequate schedules. And he said it's not an accident, it's a tendency that was the subject of questions, both in this Parliament and in the State Parliament. We know perfectly well that it is not the competence of the Council of Galicia that train, we know it—then we're coming, we're coming, but we also know that there's a certain capacity for dialogue, although it's becoming increasingly evident that smaller, between the Government of the Board of Galicia and the Government of the State, because what is true is that, since Mrs. Anne Pastor decided to integrate this rail network in Renfe in 2013, the loss of human resources is alarming, and that is a loss of service. That's why, Counsellor, I ask you if you are aware of the German Government's future state government forecasts of narrow-track railways in this community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u329	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u330	Thank you, President. Mr. Álvarez, I'm glad you recognize me that you're asking me about something we don't have skills. In any case, I can transfer you that we have been keeping a continuous and repeated interest in the railway services of Ferrol-Ortigueira to Ribadeo, a service that we recognize as essential to many neighbors of the region. We have moved repeatedly that it is necessary to act so that that this line is in line with the needs of the neighbours of the Ferrol, the Navy, Ortegal area. And we have been directed both to the Ministry of Development and to Renfe, and to Adif, on repeated occasions, to move the problems we have seen to them. We're concerned about the current state and how it works, although, as you well know, we have no competition. We're working and convening and we've had meetings with the mayors, with the different mayors of Ferrolterra, Ortegal and The Navy, to address this situation. At these meetings the applications and documentation delivered by each of the municipalities immediately was transferred to the Ministry of Development when they moved us. It is of utmost interest and concern for these services, because the requests of the municipalities and also those of the Galician Union are being analysed to take account of the Ministry of Development. We always advocate three-party meetings — councils, Galician Council and Ministry of Development — not only joint and council, but also that state representatives should be able to first-hand to know the problems we have detected and also to address solutions, because they are the ones who have the responsibilities. At that first meeting, which we have convened since the Galician Council, which we have requested — you know, it was May 8, 2017 — a working group was formed, and according to that first meeting, to address that necessary improvement of services. As a starting point in that working group, Renfe presented an action plan, an action plan with 4 million euros. We summoned that working group, which was formally formed in October. First meeting in October, constituted, and also another meeting in December. At that meeting in December there was a review of that action plan. Demands for changing schedules have also been moved, as you noted, to better adapt them to the needs. Of course, what a great interest and a great deal of concern to the Council of Galicia because this working group had been set up and because it had been heard by the municipalities and because it had also been heard by the Council of Galicia. Maximum interest and maximum willingness from then on to collaborate and search for solutions. It is also of utmost interest to improve this line, to continue to work, to be aware that it does not meet the necessary quality and that action should be taken by the Ministry of Development. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u331	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u332	Yes, thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. Of course, it is very effective for you to meet with people, creating working groups — which I do not doubt is a necessary formulation to take forward the analysis of needs — but I do wish that the Minister of Development — this minister who comes to Galicia every three months, as he reminded us today in the morning — on some of those trips to which he has in a certain way used us, quadrimestral travels, had fulfilled the statements he made — Literal — in September 2017, that is, he is going for more than half a year, and in the middle of those meetings, to which you referred, that he had three sides. He said that there would be a "a bit global" approach — we have just started with this "a little global" approach — because the problem is quite similar everywhere. He also said that this plan would not contemplate -- and I quote the adjective for relevant -- "hypermultimillionaire" investments -- that must be a lot -- but the investments would not look at that scenario, because he says it would be very good on paper, but they couldn't be done. The question is, as we are not going to have a hypermultimillionaire investment, or hypermillionaire or multimillionaire investment — certainly not going through these 4 or 5 or 7 million euros to which it has been referred — if it seems enough for an industrial structure that has lost from 305 to 249 drivers in three years, from 130 to 76 interveners — of course, so there are no trains to control travellers — and that workshop workers have passed from 244 to 184 in just three years. I'd like to know, given the state of the machinery and the state of the roads, which is expected by the Government of the Union that, at least as far as this autonomous community is concerned, can contribute to that measure. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u333	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Close this question, Madam Infrastructure and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u334	Thank you, President. I think you were a conceler in the Town Hall of Lugo and I wonder if the Town Hall of Lugo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u335	I confirm it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u336	I wonder if the Town Hall of Lugo has pulled the sanitation in the countryside in all the parishes in shock. Don't you? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Step by step, to move forward. But, as a person close to the territory and being municipally responsible in a council, I suppose they won't do everything, where they rule, a shot. In any case, it is of utmost interest because actions are carried out necessary to improve mobility. We are in constant contact — of course yes — with Renfe and Adif, even if they doubt it, and we are interested. It's a better service, so we keep insisting. According to information recently transferred by both Renfe and Adif, I can assure you that you are working to modernise that line and also service, with short but also medium-term planned actions, and that certain investments are underway — I don't know exactly what you said — but investments guarantee you that important. Regarding the infrastructure, which corresponds to Adif as responsible, he knows that they are strengthening the metal bridge in the boat, 1.8 million euros, and I can point out to him that they are moving forward in an important modernization project for security installations, signaling, an important project, with an important investment, in addition to other actions in blacks and trenches, as well as in roads and diversions. With respect to Adif, that important investment that we will move into the working group, as it should be. As for Renfe, Renfe knows he's in charge of the services, i.e., drivers, trains, rolling stock, etc., where it's the infrastructure of the road that corresponds to Adif. The staff table in workshops has increased, as we have moved to that working group, in an important way and is also advancing in the improvement of inspection services, ticket sales, with canceler, the provision of cancelers machines, staff supplies for the sale of tickets. And in that working group, as I told you, there's been talk of timetable review, and for that, surveys were conducted to make adjustments and promote mobility. They're finalizing the results and, for the last information Renfe gave me, they're finalizing these analyses. So within a very short period of time, we will convene this working group to report on these investments provided by Adif, these new schedules that can be met and which Renfe has its proposal, and we will therefore take into account the new schedules analysed and the new investments. You want to participate, ask for participation, of course, in that working group to listen to everyone. And within our competences, allow me to tell you that, thanks to the Council of Galicia and not you and the rest of the groups, Galicia has not stayed a single day without rail transport. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u337	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and six other Members of the G.P. Galician populaire, about the evaluation made by Galician board of the program Bono Alugueiro Social since its inception
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u338	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u339	Good afternoon, Counselor. Once again the Socialist Party has done perhaps what it knows best to do, which is ruining the country and causing the worst economic crisis in the last few decades, a crisis that has destroyed jobs, put at risk public services and led to thousands of businesses and self-government. They did not laugh when they lost their jobs. But it was also a particularly cruel crisis that broke out with the most vulnerable and led to the poverty of thousands of Greeks and Greeks, and perhaps one of the worst consequences of the crisis was the loss of their home for many families. So the priority for the People's Party was to get out of the economic crisis where the Socialist Party and our big goal was to help the most disadvantaged or vulnerable people. And in this context, housing has become a priority axis of social policy. The most ambitious and most impactful set of measures has been put in place for all autonomous communities, twelve measures to protect the right to a decent housing, to fight against evictions and to support those people who, because of a situation of exclusion, lack the means to cope with the rent payment of a housing. Twelve measures, such as the law which has laid down measures to prevent evictions in public promotion housing and to allow payment in protected housing. Or the realox program affected by mortgage executions. Or the agreement between the General Council of the Judiciary and the Council of Galicia and Fegamp to establish a joint protocol of action. The Reconduce programme, which has a preventive approach, in order to create a framework for coordination of public services. The German Rehabilitation Plan, renting and improving access to housing 2015-2020. The agreement with Sareb to be able to have the homes of this society and to provide them with social rent. The agreement with the People's Valedor. Cooperation agreements with several financial entities. The empty housing census. The rent of empty houses with social rents. The agreement with the Galician Counsellor. And another of the measures referred to in particular to this question is the Social Rental Bonus, approved by the Board of Directors in 2015 to facilitate urgent, immediate and timely support for families who needed special attention for the loss of their habitual housing in the rental regime, in view of the impossibility of dealing with the payment of income; a bonus that has been adapted in order to reach more and more people and allow them to help more and more families. For all this, Counsellor, what valuation does the Galician board of the program Bono Rental Social since its inception?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u340	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u341	Thank you, President. Your Honor, from the German Government we are aware that the context of economic crisis has had an impact on the Greek families in a situation of special vulnerability. That's why we reoriented housing policy, to give it a more social character yet and to protect the collectives who were affected by being at risk of losing their housing. Our priority in the previous legislation -- and also in this legislation -- is to focus on efforts to guarantee this right to housing, to protect that right, to fight against rejection. They know that we have a programme, twelve measures to combat evictions, a programme with twelve measures that the people's own valet recognized as the most ambitious programme in all the autonomous communities of Spain. We're talking about a program with initiatives like the Reconduce program, the program of empty housing, the agreements with the different financial entities so as not to evict anyone and that they can stay in their home with a social rent and also the question you ask me, the Social Rental Bonus, included in the RehaVIta 2015-2020 plan, which is the first Greek housing plan approved by the Galician Union. As for the Social Rental Bonus, it seeks to provide urgent and temporary attention to families who are experiencing a situation of special difficulty, a help in assuming that renting cost, thus preventing families from seeing themselves deprived of a housing. Since its creation in August 2015, we have been adapting the Social Rental Bonus to reach more people, reach more families and offer more solutions, incorporate new groups, incorporate more help and, of course, give more time for this Rent Bonus. At this point in time, they can benefit from the Social Rental Bonus, both those affected by evictions, the default of the rent, as well as the victims of gender-based violence, also people, the families deprived of their normal housing by surviving circumstances, i.e. by fires or by floods. The families of the Realuga program who have finished their period, as well as the families who need that bonus and who are incorporated into the Empty Housing Program, can also benefit. In 2016 we increased the amount of this aid from the Social Rental Bonus, today it is EUR 200 a month, with a single additional help of 600 additional euros to cope with possible bail costs for new contracts and late payment, a twelve-month extension period that we have increased twice, and in total, since its implementation of the Social Rental Bond, we have granted 485 social lease bonds in Galicia. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u342	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u343	Thank you very much, Counselor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is good to have in this House what the results of real housing policies are, since these days it has been political news the fictitious housing of tides. So far we had an idea that these policies were only motivated by propaganda and the blockade, and we only understood why the tides were blocking the construction of 40 houses of official protection in the office. [[Murmurs.]] That's all we understood, too, because they still respected the democratic mandate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u344	Quiet, quiet. Then you can't interrupt, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u345	...of the Town Hall of Coruña and refuse to join the empty housing plan, but now we know what is the real reason for En Marea's commitment to boycott all the housing policy actions of the Galician Union. You, gentlemen, are doing business with people's problems. It was necessary, it was necessary to block the problems of the Galician Union in order to replace them with a program of which 38% could attach themselves to a prominent signatory of that political organization, which is also plugged in as advisor to Ada Colau. [[Murmurs.]] What a coincidence, ladies! Of the 20,000 empty dwellings in the Coruña, two are bought from a tidal conductor. [[Murmurs.]] And besides, with serious irregularities, failing to meet the basics of the program; they were neither inhabited nor have enough surface, nor meet the accessibility requirements. That's the housing policy of En Marea, a room without an elevator.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u346	Quiet, quiet. Mr. Lake, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u347	Mr. Lago, I don't know if this personally affects you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u348	Sorry, excuse me a moment, Mr. Trenor, excuse me a moment, I stopped the time. Let's see, we have to be able to fit. [[Laughter]] The dynamics... sorry, no, excuse me for a moment, I'm talking. Excuse me, is this Parliament? If this can't be done here too sometimes they have to fit, this is the democratic game, gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] No, sorry, I'm talking. I'm sorry. I say you can't be interrupting constantly. There are questions they like and answers they like, and there are questions they don't like and answers they don't like. This is the dynamic. Silence! It's over, it's over, I'm not going to talk about it because this is Parliament's dynamic and everyone knows it. Don't interrupt. Mr. Trenor, finish your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u349	I understand you're angry, because we see that there must be first signers and second signers. [[Laughter]] Look, in Galicia there are only two options: one serious and responsible way to make politics and another one that is the speech, the occurrences and the benefits for En Marea's signatures, so, Counsellor, please tell them the results of the policies designed to benefit those who need it most...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u350	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Time's up. Close the question, Infrastructure and Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u351	Thank you, President. Well, speaking of the office clerk, today we request the license for the construction of 40 new dwellings, and I hope that the license will be given quickly and safely and will not take nine months to say no. In any case, for making public housing where they really need it. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As for the Social Rental Bonus, Mr. President, I dedicated myself to working for Galicia every day, no man! [[Applause]] With all due respect, I come to work [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u352	Quiet, please. This exchange is not good, it is in the use of the word the Counselor, I think they must respect it, and then they will respect you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u353	It's not a criticism, it's a chronicle, it's a story of objective themes, directly. License applied for, I hope they grant it. I'll continue, won't I, president?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u354	Yes, yes, perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u355	Well, social rent, almost 500 families have hosted this Social Rental Bonus, 485 in particular, thanks to an amount of 1.8 million euros. Of these 181 lease bonds have already been renewed for the second or third consecutive year. And if we analyze the Social Rental Bonus, by different collectives, what we can say is that most of these social rent bonds were destined to be affected by defeat, by rent default, because the fact is that this Rental Bond has been recorded, especially as a matter of priority, for the cancellations by rent. It was 309, in particular, to be affected by evictions; the second most benefited collective of this Social Rental Bonus were the former beneficiaries of the Aluga programme, 119 social lease bonds for the former beneficiaries of the Aluga programme; victims of gender violence, 49 social lease bonds; 6 social lease bonds for families affected by surviving circumstances, in particular 6 bonds as a result of fires affecting the homes of these families. We'll keep betting on this program, because it's proven its effectiveness. Last January 10 we published a new call for this Social Rental Bonus. In 2018, €2.2 million will be added to the nearly €2 million extension, and we have met 100% of the applications that met the requirements for this Social Rental Bond. It's not a call for aid, by the way, as in other autonomous communities, with a limited deadline, but it's open permanently, and it can be asked at the moment when the need arises; therefore, it's a novelty, too, of this Social Rental Bonus, and I believe that with this data it has proven to be useful, it has proven to be a positive measure to help, as it said, since its implementation, practically, nearly 500 families. So we will continue to bet on this Social Rental Bonus. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u356	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Antón Sánchez García, from G.P. of En Marea, on the evaluation of the Galician Union regarding the investment carried out by public administrations in recent years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u357	Mr. Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u358	Good afternoon. The question is also about housing, so as not to surprise you, Mr. President, about the investments and cuts in housing in recent years, Counsellor. Well, we just heard the data, 485 Social Rental Bonuses of 200 euros a month, in a period of three years, where more than 7,000 people have been defeated in this country, and they boast of that balance, and come here, above all, another corrupt concierge in exile—frustrated for not being in government, because democratically they have chosen a government to throw them out to you—to tell lies and slanders on a point issue of the Council of the Crown, when I quote the classics, and quote Mr Trenor adapting the quote. For me, the People's Party has done what it knows in these years: privatizing, giving away public companies to friends, charging commissions after these companies to irregularly fund their party, selling public housing to Voitre funds, as the People's Party has done, rescuing banks with billions of euros, and instead being everyday leaving people on the street, the refugees on the street. That's what the People's Party knew best. [[Applause]] Because even though they come here to do what they can't do in the Council of the Crown, and to tell lies, while you were advertising and propaganda, in this country, continuously, since Mr. Feijóo's rule, there have been more than six daily evictions, and none of his measures have been able to stop him. The question, Counsellor, comes from a report by the Banco de España, which analyzes the evolution of investments to public administrations in the Spanish State from 2009 to 2016. A number of interesting conclusions are drawn from this report. First, that the investment of the Spanish administrations was in 2016 at 1,9 % of GDP, a level below the European average and the whole series existing since 1970 in the Spanish State, at all levels. Secondly, you only apply austerity to the most disadvantaged classes, because another of the conclusions is that while housing and social protection games have a cut of around 80% nominal fall, economic affairs, where infrastructures are, etc., have decreased at approximately the same rate as average, 50%, and instead security and public order experienced a reduction of only 10% and 20%, respectively. That's what this report says. So, here they perfectly set their political priorities, and it's to leave people in the street, in a situation where investments in public housing, Counsellor, would be good for the increase in the number of evictions that are taking place in this country because of the rent-freeness of rents it could have a public housing park where all those people were staying, and you left them thrown away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u359	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u360	In this respect I will point out three questions to you, but first a question, since you referred to the report of the Banco de España. I think it compares years that are not very comparable; in 2009, in addition to being inflated, the deficit was 11% of GDP, while in 2016 we were still paying for the consequences of this deficit, the result of the socialist government. First, in relation to investment over the past few years, the data tell us that the crisis has led to a significant adjustment in the rate of investment across the European Union, especially in the countries on the euro periphery. This evolution is the result of the economic turn of public finances and a decision, to shield... pardon, perhaps, the decision to shield social spending in a context marked by the gross fall in tax collection and the closure of sovereign debt markets and not official data, which clearly demonstrate the drop in tax revenues. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In 2007 they accounted for 24.8% of GDP, and in 2016 only 22%, when the most fall data was 18.4%, which I assumed compared to GDP in 2009. That is, we still have 8% less income in 2016 than in the 2007 fiscal year. This with a difference, which is also well known, the Social Security in that year was in surplus of 1.3, and it turns out in 2016 it's in a deficit of 1.6%. The second question, which coincides with the first one, non-financial expenditure increased by 12% over the whole period, and especially because those who are growing are social expenditure; that is, what happened in all governments was a blockage of social expenditure at a time of less resources, so the investment increased from 6,4 % to 2,7 %. I believe that any half-serious and responsible government the first thing he did was shield social spending. The same way it is happening right now, that the fiscal consolidation process allows to recover tax revenues, and obviously also the level of investments. And the third question of what we are responsible for, I would like to stress the role that the Autonomous Community of Galicia has played during this whole stage that is being analysed, and what I can talk to you about are two issues. First of all, in 2016 Galicia is the Autonomous Community that made the investment effort, the second Autonomous Community with the greatest investment effort. The investor effort, as you well know, means the percentage that on non-financial spending occurs in every administration. So let's put it in value, we have it in 12%, and the average of the autonomous communities is in 6.4%. And what's ahead of you is that in 2017, which is not yet closed the data of other autonomous communities, Galicia will again be among the first autonomous communities in investment effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u361	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u362	Yes, Counselor, two questions. Of course, the crisis has caused cuts at European level, but this report also says, and you know, that the cuts in Spanish public administrations were greater than those in Portugal, Greece, Italy and any European country, and that is also what the report does. And on the other hand, of course there could be cuts in investments. But why did you choose housing and social protection, and instead, you keep spending on defence or security almost inconceivable? Because you know that a higher reduction than 25% in defense isn't supposed to spend 5% on housing investments, it would consolidate spending on public housing. I mean, just with a cut of 5% plus defense you could leave the housing budget of the Spanish public administrations in all the years of the crisis. So, since we're not talking about numbers or it's a theoretical discussion that has a translation into people's lives, we could have built a public housing rental park at social price for all those people who had to go to the street, or for all those people who cannot be emancipated or have a life or entitled to a housing, as it collects its sacred Spanish Constitution, which only respects what they want, and ultimately only for the sacred unity of "the country." Do you understand, Counselor? Because this is a matter of priorities. And you've prioritized things, prioritized rescue the banks, prioritized spending on defense, prioritized getting into illegal wars based on lies about people's right to housing. So of course they cut, but you chose where to cut and cut people. And when you talk to me about Galicia, it makes me so much fun to talk to myself, because they were in line with this data, exactly. You take the housing budgets, what was here in 2009 and what is today, and what happened during the years of the crisis, and you will see how, for example, yesterday, in the debate, in 2007 here were EUR 48 million in public protection housing and in 2017 only EUR 8 million.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u363	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u364	Of course, if you want to tell me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u365	Thank you. Your time is up. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Thank you. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Close it, Mr. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u366	I'll try to explain myself. Once again I don't agree with you in practically any of the positions you just moved forward. First, what is the contribution of all public administrations during the period? Today morning the president of the board referred to a very specific data, which was the gross fall of what was the investment of the General Administration of the State. A drop of over 66% in its absolute magnitude. The same thing I'm saying as the results of the Board, I also have to look at the contribution of local corporations, it's a professional flaw. But when I look — so I say that one thing is preaching certain messages by his lordship and another reality — the results liquidated — official data — for example, of the Council of the Crown... but I understand that it's very difficult, 29.8% execution; county of Ferrol, 31.4%; Santiago, 22%. [[Laughter]] And we stayed so calm. [[Murmurs.]] I think it's little to contribute... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u367	Quiet, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u368	I think it's little to contribute to the recovery of investment levels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u369	Quiet, Mr. Casal. No, no, sorry. [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u370	Secondly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u371	I'm sorry. No, no, you can't... that's not allowed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u372	...I'll leave the official data to the spokesman...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u373	I'll call it in order! [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u374	Secondly, and since it refers to the evolution experienced by the living function. We have to tell the truth, because it turns out that three-quarters of the living function depend on local corporations. And local corporations have fallen to the housing level of 90%. A 90% drop! [[Murmurs.]] While the rest of the other administrations are 12%, the best result. And that's a good result in the global? No way! But let's put names and names on the issues. And thirdly — and I repeat it again — they compare the Autonomous Community of Galicia in investment effort with any other effort. That's what we're willing to do, and not to certain falsehoods as just said. We have the hard skin to also receive from time to time. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u375	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogango, from G.P. of En Marea, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the balance of benefit-benefits of the installation of the wind park of Mouriños
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u376	Question by Mr Cal of the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u377	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. Count. Energy conversion is necessary and urgent, and wind development is a very important part of this process when looking for the most sustainable methods. Now, conversion can be done in different ways and that is where the debate on this question will be covered. You can think of general interest, social return, landscaping, heritage and environmental protection; or you can do what the People's Party wants with Mouriños Park and Laxe Park, sharing pieces of the enormous benefits drawn from the wind in charity and social prejudice, where everyone wins is the electric company and the facilitators, while losing citizenship. Galicia has enormous wind potential, we're the first state community in aerogeers by extension. But with the logic of friendship capitalism, the benefits are privatized and the losses are socialized, which makes this possible advantage become a drawback. The problem is the model made to measure the interests of the electrical employer, nothing new. The installation of air carriers must be done where it does not bring social, environmental and heritage prejudice, and at the same time an economic return of the fair profit. Things that don't happen with Mouriños park, like the others already installed to a greater or lesser extent. The place where it will be installed has a high heritage landscape value, which is crucial for the development of the region, with a productive model very dependent — and increasingly — on sustainable tourism of the nature of the heritage. And that's why this project is being rejected locally. Even in some of the municipalities affected in their own PXOM point to the importance of preserving their natural and landscaped heritage as a strategic element for their development. Also in December 2012, the head of the Investment Service and Technical Tourism Supervision issued a report on the project, which then consisted of 11 lower-power aerogeers. The conclusions of the report are as follows: the area has a lot of tourist importance and can be affected by the installation. It also produces an affect on landscape values, so the impact of action is also environmental competition. It is concluded that they have outstanding influence in the specific tourism of the area due to the proximity of the highlighted elements and the proximity of areas of great tourist importance of the community, so it is necessary to carry out a tourist impact study proposing compensatory measures relating to the condition at these points. The project has changed, instead of 11 aerogeers now consists of 4 mega-erogeers, which triple the previous ones in volume. Which doesn't seem to improve much of the landscape condition, instead of 11 little ones, we have 4 giants, so this evaluation is still of total vigency. And finally, you have hidden the landscape guidelines in a box since December 2016. And if you're done thinking only of the general interest, those iron giants couldn't be installed in that place. What would happen if they were installed and then it turns out that the landscape guidelines say they can't be there? Aren't you worried about this situation, Counselor? So let's ask you the following question: How do you rate the benefit balance of this facility? How does it affect your production model and landscape guidelines...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u378	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u379	...and the social return of benefits? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u380	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count, has the floor for the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u381	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Cal, I sincerely believe that when we talk about the wind sector it is not enough to say that you are in favour of wind energy, especially after hearing your intervention, which is an intervention — if you allow me — full of prejudices, and above all full of judgments that you simply want to move here as if they were a dogma of faith, forgetting that there are laws passed by this Parliament and that, logically, in strict compliance with the law is where, logically, we have to mark not only coexistence, but also Galicia's economic and social development. But no, you're still in immobilism from the point of view of the development of the wind sector, in general, from the point of view of the development of the industrial sector. And when you speak with so little rigour from the point of view of the knowledge of the law, I would certainly ask those 350 Gamesa workers if they think the same thing as you, or the 200 Vesta workers. I would probably also ask them — because they were talking about return — not only in terms of employment, but all the municipalities and all the neighbors who are having income and who are benefiting precisely from the wind canon, which has already been around 180 million euros since 2010. Your Honor, this Government prefers to be with most of them and most of them see in the wind sector and in the renewables an opportunity. And that's why I think when we talk about the development of the sector and a particular park, the first thing we have to do is deal with it. Mr. Cal, when a project is presented, that's what the law says. And logically it's checked if all the requirements that mark legislation are met. And from then on, logically, you can decide whether or not to approve. But first it is dealt with, and in that processing it is checked if the requirements are actually met. These kind of preliminary judgments that you bring here, I don't think they really have any kind of validity or politics. And I honestly believe that the wind project will be authorized, whether or not unique and exclusively to the extent, logically, that they comply with all the binding reports, that's where we are. Logically, those landscape guidelines that you were moving know — or should know — that, as far as wind farms are concerned, are defined, consensual and closed. And that, therefore, there is no kind of direct linkage, which you want to move here. And, as I tell you, first of all, it's done, it's checked if it's done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u382	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u383	...and from there, the government's decision is taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. Mr. Cal Ogong has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u385	Thank you, President. Well, since it's the first time I ask you a question, because I've been lucky and I've also been accused of lack of rigour on your part, I haven't told you so far. But I'd ask you to have a little rigor, accuse me of lack of rigor for ignoring the law. I never spoke of legislation at any time in my intervention. I haven't talked about legislation, I'm asking you an assessment of prejudices, a balance of prejudices-benefits. I'm not telling you that it's illegal or that it's not. So I ask you to be strict and focus on the intervention and the question I'm asking you. Of course you see the sector as an opportunity. Obviously, it's an opportunity for electric multinationals, they're taking a good paste. And if you weren't here and you read the Session Diary, you might think the government sent here an electric boss trader. Because you, at no time, when the question is addressed directly to what you believe to be the balance of prejudice-benefit, when there are obvious prejudices, if you want to refer to them. Then I have to ask who's protecting you, because with this video you'll probably be happy with the electrics, but they won't be happy with citizenship. Look, Counselor, this is something obvious, it's obvious. I don't know if you've been there, because if you haven't been there, I'll bring you a picture, because how we talk about landscape is all very visual. This is the area where the air conditioners want to be installed. [[Mr. Cal Ogor shows a picture to the counsellor.]] This is the area! Do you think it has no impact on a region that is very much dependent on its landscaped values? You don't think it has any impact? This is how you want to put it, with these four giants put in an area of very high landscape value in a space that is tremendously important for the development of this region. It's obvious. So in his reply, it would be good if he made a real assessment of the situation. You may think that the benefits outweigh the prejudices — which are obviously not — but, well, at least, they do not. They talk about prejudices, because prejudices are obvious. So I ask you to answer the question in your reply: your valuation of the benefit-benefits of that facility. The benefits we know are for the electricians, for us there's still a present. And talk about prejudices, too, and value them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u386	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u387	That's the question. Please rigor in your reply, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u388	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal. You have the Government's reply to the economic, employment and industry advisor, Mr. Conde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u389	I'll try to be more pedagogic, because, of course, if I talk about 350 jobs in Gamesa, 200 jobs in Vestas, 180 million euros of wind canon, and you don't understand that these are benefits... well, logically, of course we can have a problem from the point of view of interpretation. In any case, logically, the Government is not to be valued, it is to transfer the information. And, logically, it is about transferring the information, in this case, both of the administrative processing and of the decisions taken. Because in the Government we are not to value, this is not a tertulia, it is an issue where it is dealt with, where decisions are made, and, logically, where Parliament is aware of these processes of the projects and those decisions. If you tell me about the project, as I told you, the most important thing is to process it first, which is where we are. And in this processing you know that in terms of environmental assessment of the wind farms, the Environmental Council issues an impact report and landscape integration, as the law that you want to omit, but I have to logically refer to the regulatory framework. He also knows that in the case of Mouriños wind park, the Institute of Territory Studies has also issued three reports of impact and landscape integration, which you have not appointed. And that after all the adaptations made -- because you're talking about the first project, but, as you know, it's already developed -- after those adaptations and after the improvements introduced in the reports, it's consistent with the draft landscape guidelines. So he also skips that data. And you know that the project, in addition, is not subject to any sort of short-term procedure, but rather to a project that has to go through an ordinary environmental processing. And he also knows that the project is 500 meters away from the cores that set the wind sector plan of Galicia. Finally, you, when you talk about the management of the park, you just talk about the opinions, the valuations, but we talk here about the specific data, the processing and, therefore, the knowledge of the project. Finally, this park, Your Honor, is being processed, all pre-emptive reports are being issued, you will have to comply with all these guarantees and, as long as you comply with all favourable pre-emptive reports, logically, you can be authorised. But allow me not to value it, but simply through and account for those processes. Galicia has a wind policy that clearly seeks to favour our productive fabric, which seeks to promote job creation, which also seeks to favour its own municipalities, and logically that environmental impact canon is also of great importance. Finally, Mr. Cal, Galicia wants to make good progress, and you remain in absolute immobilism. I'm sorry that's how it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u390	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u391	We will continue to promote wind politics in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u392	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry to ensure the viability and continuity of the Madeira Iglesias company, S.A.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u393	To put the question, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u394	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mr. Conde, about a month ago we brought you here a question on the same subject, and we have to tell you that we will bring it back as many times as it takes until this situation is resolved, because it is something that the workers and workers of this company deserve, that they are also present here in the gallery of this plenary and that they are an example, a true example of resistance and struggle. [[Applause]] This Sunday there was published in a Vigo newspaper a news about the company's situation, led by a headline that I think symbolizes this spirit very well, and said, "No one" — from his personal picture — "deals in Madeiras Iglesias". I'm also an example of responsibility because they've had years of continuous sacrifices, with 7 ERE and with the threat of the eighth, with delays in payments, with mobilizations to try to get out of this crossing, this tunnel where they were put and where they haven't just seen the light. As soon as they deserve an opportunity, they and their families, 250 families in the southern part of Pontevedra province, and they also deserve you, Counselor, to receive them today, because they have repeatedly asked you to be received in the last few days. We're hoping for your sensitivity and you have a few minutes to attend to them, because I really think they deserve that attention from the head of the Industry Council. Since the BNG, of course, we are convinced that it is a viable company, that it can be competitive in a recovery sector and that Galicia and the southern zone also need it, in any case, with the need for changes, changes that need to be made in the direction, in the business model, in the restructuring of the debt and also with the entry of an industrial investor partner, as anticipated in the viability plan. In favour, it has great social and institutional support from the municipalities, also from this Parliament, from the parliamentary groups and, of course, from the BNG, which is in this struggle, accompanying the workers and the workers. Whoever hasn't been up to it lately was, of course, the Industry Council and the Galician Union, who's been watching the bulls since the barrier. We've already told him in December that his attitude in the last few months has gone out of absolute passivity, and it was only with social pressure, with pressure from the corporate committee, with institutional and political support as they saw no way out of them. You received us on January 18th. Then he was suspended by the situation, and then there were other meetings, but they haven't just seen things clear. In the past you said you were worried about the company's situation since 2009. If you've cared so much and the house is sunk, it certainly doesn't seem to us to be a very effective concern.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u395	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u396	What we want to ask you about this limited situation is what management has done in recent weeks to the Government, its advisor, if you've met with the entrepreneur, if there's scheduled meetings...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u397	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u398	...with the different parties, with the creditors, if there's a forecast of some industrial investor partner...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u399	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u400	...and, therefore, if they're going to put everything on their side to save this company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u401	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u402	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, indeed, we talked about this matter a month ago, and by his words, what I see and what I regret is that the Nationalist Block in Wales continues to politicize a situation in which it should simply be working to unite us all. You come here I don't know whether to celebrate a rally or, logically, to seek consensus; that doesn't seem clear to me. Logically, the Galician Union — which you forget — is among the institutions that we are working daily to address the situation of Madeira Churches and its workers; logically, of course, we are working. The workers, whom I greet also in this parliamentary presence, know perfectly well that it is. I meet with them, the Igape met with them as well, and the General Secretariat of Employment as well. Finally, we're making a permanent effort to maintain that contact, that knowledge of the situation that goes through the company, which logically also crosses the company committee. So, let's just forget that the Galician board is working on a daily basis. It's just coming here to politicize, and I don't think Wood Churches and the workers deserve this political approach by the BNG. In any case, indeed, of course, this government knows perfectly the situation of the company. The Galician board doesn't manage the company, it doesn't confuse itself, it's not responsible for the management of the company, because that's what companies are for and workers are for. But the Galician Union, logically, did so when it had to be helping the company, in 2009, by facilitating this funding; also in 2013, to facilitate refinancing; it did so in November last year — I also omitted it — by modifying the terms of the auctions precisely so that workers could collect the payrolls; and it is doing so at the different meetings that are being held both through Igape and through the General Employment Secretariat. So I don't think you should come here to Parliament to distort reality, Mr Bará. The Galician Union is working and maintaining contact with creditors, maintaining contact with the company, also monitoring compliance with the company's obligations and, logically, trying to help at every moment to find a solution, which, necessarily, Mr Bará, goes through the dialogue and consensus between the company, the workers, the creditors and, of course, the Galician Union, which is also working on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u403	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. Mr. Bará Torres has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u404	Thank you. Counsellor, the BNG does what it does is to carry out its role as a demanding opposition, and we've come here to control the government, to represent society, to push solutions. [[Applause]] It's our duty, it's our responsibility, and we're here talking about this because we were asked by the representatives of the workers and the workers; we were asked to come here to demand solutions and a way out, and the real involvement of the government. And we also ask you -- and I repeat -- to say that if you bother to receive the workers and the workers, that they are experiencing a distressing situation and that they want to hear from you words that reassure them and give them some hope, some hope. You told us about 2013. See, in 2013: "Conde puts Maderas Iglesias as an example of a company capable of overcoming difficulties through quality, innovation and internationalization." You said this on a visit to Madeira Churches. "Maderas Churches is an example of how you can really cope with a complex situation with effort, with the help of financial institutions and administrations and with the work of the management team and workers." If this is the example in 2013, look at what happened over the next five years. Let's go, Mr. Conde! So what we're asking you here is four very specific steps: First, stop at the employer, who is responsible for this situation — we recognize it, of course — and put it firm and control its speculative movements and decapitalisation of the company. Second, negotiation with creditors to restructure debt. Third, the entry of an industrial investor partner in the solvency sector, not of speculative capital. And fourth, real-time information and agreements with union representatives. You have a perfect opportunity today to answer these questions and to receive — I urge you again — the representatives of the workers and the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u405	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. He's got the replication shift on the part of the Government, the Economic, Employment and Industry advisor, Mr. Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u406	He insists on politics... Mr Bará, the workers do not need his intervention so that the Council of Galicia and this councillor, or any CEO, will receive them, because he has already received them on every occasion that the workers have requested. I don't understand, Mr Bará, that's where you don't see, from my intervention, the involvement of the Galician Union. I don't understand that. You just come here with your speech and repeat it, and you'll probably convince yourself. But look, the Galician Union is taking the initiative permanently, we're logically involving ourselves in a really complicated process. The Galician Union must be realistic, it must act logically with responsibility. The Galician Union cannot, in any case, generate false expectations and must therefore continue to work. You have to keep working with the company, you have to keep working with the creditors and you have to keep working with the financial institutions, and we're doing this in permanent contact with the workers. I don't know where you don't see the implication, therefore, of the Council of Galicia. And what I don't know is whether you, not just for Madeira Churches, but for any company, understand that an administration, the Galician Union, has to address and save a company at any price. You, of course, as they did with Alfageme and they made a breakdown of 32 million euros, granting those advances at the last hour in the Bipartite legislature, surely they think that's the way the Government has to go, but that's not the course of this government. The Galician Union — and this is the message that workers have directly — is going to work at all times by watching for legality, also by watching for responsibility and, at all times, by looking for a solution, and in no case by imposing it, Mr Bará, because you know that this is part of business autonomy. We are in a rule of law where private property has that constitutional guarantee, which I hope you respect. In any case, the Galician Union is looking for that solution; that solution would move it through consensus and by finding and aligning the situation on all sides. I hope you change the forms, because, simply, you, with this kind of intervention, it seems you intend to divide. Here, in Parliament, I think we must come to sum up, and I think we must put aside those ideological prejudices that you have when you talk about these kinds of situations. Logically, the Government is going to follow the workers' side, next to the company and look for that viability solution. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u407	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. Question by Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and Mr Paula Vázquez Verao of the G.P. de En Marea on the measures planned by the Galician Union to alleviate energy poverty
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u408	To put the question, Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u409	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. As you know, or you should know, between 245,000 and 442,000 people suffer from energy poverty in Galicia. One of them—it went out in Galicia's Voice yesterday—, Yolanda Rodríguez, says, "I don't have radiators. I had to tear them out of the walls because, if not, the children... -- they have five children; it's a mother who keeps five children alone, and also affected by cancer -- "...with the cold that passed, the radiators turned on and I couldn't afford the light at the end of the month." [[Mr. Casal Vidal shows a photocopy of that paper.]] The Galician Union, when it created the electric ticket, arrived at 2,200 families. They have left behind — this is a real data — 70% of the budget — you have it in your papers. This yes is a true data, not like those we heard before about the executions in the Town Hall of Coruña. Because in the last full, it was said that the execution of the budget of Social Services and Education in the Town Hall of Coruña did not reach 30%. I didn't know if it was true or not, I doubted it. I came to the Coruña, I asked for the intervention and it turns out that the execution in 2007 in Social Services and Education in the Coruña Town Hall was 82%. They ask for the data, and do not mistake the figures, that 82% don't turn into 28%. [[Applause]] But all of this seemed very good to you. They reached 2,200 families, which was 0.5% of households in energy poverty. And do you know what Mr. Feijóo's answer was? Not that this was ill-treated nor that the management of the processing was inaccurate, but rather textually, Mr. Feijóo's statements: "There is not as much energy poverty in Galicia as he expected." Really, where do you live? Really, where do they live? Do you look in the face of poverty? Do you really look at poverty? And energy poverty is one of the most gratifying manifestations of poverty. They should go to some of these houses where people get cold and see the consequences. The consequences are direct deaths like those we saw last week — well, two weeks ago — of a woman killed by gas inhalation of a brewer or deaths from health problems. The impact on health as well, the cost it has, is three times as much as would be necessary to reverse the effects of energy poverty. Or the effects on children on education. They'd have to go to Yolanda Rodríguez's house and see how their kids are studying with the plum. Let's see if you can really develop a child's education! But it seems to you that we care a lot, because in the last law that was passed in this Parliament a month ago and I think they only leave the help for those people in extreme vulnerability, those people who enter their entire home...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u410	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u411	...less than 400 euros. Do you think you're only in energy poverty for people who enter your home less than 400 euros? Counsellor, what you plan to do in 2018, apart from what the state does...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u412	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u413	...that is totally insufficient, to alleviate energy poverty? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u414	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u415	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, this government logically shares its sensitivity, shares its concern for all the people who need help, in the different fields, in energy and, logically also, in non-energy, and that's why the priorities of the Union are focused precisely on social spending. He knows that 75% of the board budget is geared precisely to social spending, and also to those priorities, the Galician board believes that employment policies are surely the best policy to respond precisely to the needs of families. All cases are important. Every case, logically, is important, but I'm sorry that you come here to move a situation and transfer some data and stay in 2015. It seems that since 2015 it has not been acting. You've actually moved as the Galician Union four years ago was an autonomous pioneering community in the establishment of the electric ticket, which has precisely established and benefited, Mr. Casal, 7,500 families, since 2014, and also established supplies cut-off aid for more than 5,300 homes. And the most important fact: look, I don't come here to talk about execution when we talk about energy poverty, what I can tell you is that all and every one of the requests that have been made over the last three years have been met; there was no demand left to meet. I cannot share, logically, the ways in which you present energy poverty and I cannot share as you don't want to talk about the last decisions that were made by the Central Government and by the Galician Union, surely because you both voted against, certainly because of that. Because I wanted to ask you if you don't agree that there's a social bond, a social bond that you should know that you used to benefit families, not by your income level, and now yes. But, of course, you in Congress voted no. We brought a law here and they voted no. I honestly don't know what your opposition is. What I do know is that, thanks to the Social Bonus, there are benefits for vulnerable consumers and thanks to that law that you have voted that not the Galician Union is taking a step forward, it will care for families with more difficulties and will care for families at risk of social exclusion so that they have ensured both the electricity supply services and the freeness of minimum consumption.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u416	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u417	Well, no, Mr. Count. The Galician Union will not meet the needs of families in energy poverty. No, you won't, because in the law that you approved the only contribution -- I know it's laughing, it's very funny to them. [[Murmurs.]] They look at poverty in their face and they'll see that they don't laugh. Keep on laughing, keep on laughing. The reality, the reality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u418	Quiet, listen to who's using the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u419	...is that the complementary contribution to the Social Bonus that the Galician Union will make is only for those homes with incomes of less than 400 euros. And to a pensioner who pays 600 euros and who has to pay 300 euros of rent housing, do you have any money left to pay for the light, the food and the rest of your needs? Really, aren't these people in energy poverty? But where are we going to stop? Why do we vote against that Social Bonus? Because it leaves out 80% of the people who are really in energy poverty. Of the 442,000 people in Galicia who are in energy poverty 80% are left out of what marks the Social Bonus that you and the Citizens' Lords approved at Congress in Madrid. And also, Counsellor, look at the limits of consumption, look at your receipt, or any of the Members of the People's Party. Look at the receipt when they get home, multiply by twelve, and compare with the Social Bonus, which establishes that the limit of the Social Bonus is 1,200 kilowatts per hour per year. See who heats a house with that total annual limit. Check it out and we'll see how the next plenary session will give us the reason that with these measures 80% of the population of Greece is left out, which is in energy poverty. No, it's an absolutely intolerable matter. No country in the civilized world lets its population go cold, with all the consequences it has.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u420	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u421	Mr. President. Mr. Casal, when there are no arguments, it probably moves or tries to move a totally distorted reality, because, look, all the political groups — not only PP and Citizens — present in Congress, we think it's better to have a Social Bonus, and we think it's better that there's a Social Bonus first, because they're going to avoid cuts of light, and second, because vulnerable consumers are going to be helped. There will be more beneficiaries of the Social Bonus, who have a situation of income difficulty. All groups, ladies and gentlemen, but we can and their confluences. It's just that you always say no, I don't know if it's a problem of frustration, if it's a problem of willlessness and height of sight, but, ultimately, that's the reality, Mr. Casal. And you are voting that not to a measure that will benefit the improvement of the energy situation, just as they have voted that not in this Parliament the German Energy Efficiency Law, which we also formulate with realism and embrace legality. And I reiterate to you, in addition to that established in Royal Decree 897/2007, which establishes that Social Bonus, the Galician law will take that step forward, will allow those families at risk of social exclusion to have ensured the service of electricity supply and to have the freeness of minimum consumption, and we, the Galician Union, will continue to work, because we are fully aware, logically, that we must continue to advance, guarantee and expand the guarantees to fight energy poverty. And we'll do it, Mr. Casal, working with the administrations. We will continue to work with the Central Government, cooperate with the councils and ultimately collaborate with all non-profit institutions and entities, with Caritas, with the Red Cross, because we are in reality and we know that energy poverty must be faced together. But you should also understand that this energy poverty is not only an income problem, it is, but also logically, it is a question of energy efficiency and energy cost. That's why we're supporting families so they can improve their livingability. We're also improving the incorporation of renewable energy. Finally, we are introducing improvements to avoid that energy poverty, and therefore we are going to complete, Your Honor, the measures that the State has driven to ensure electricity supply to families at risk of social exclusion and also the freeness of minimum consumption. I think that impulse, with a new order of help that we're coordinating with a social policy is going...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u422	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u423	...to improve the stage that people have to face this situation of difficulty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-21-DSPG061.u424	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. At the end of the day, we raised the session.
