ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u1	Good morning. We're going to resume the session. Before I resume the agenda, I invite your lords to keep a minute of silence in memory of the victims of the laughter recorded in Mallorca. We move our condolences to the families of the dead, and we want a quick recovery of normality for all. [[The honourable Members and the honourable Members, standing by, shall keep a minute of silence.]] [[Pause.]] [[Applause]] Annual debate on general policy. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia to inform and discuss the political situation of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. [[Continuation.]] Debates and votes on the motions for resolutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u2	We continue with the agenda, and we move on to the debate and vote on the motions for resolutions. To this end, we are informed that the sitting, according to the agreement of the Bureau and the Speakers' Committee of 18 September, will take place as follows: announcement of groups and votes separated from the motions for a vote, according to the information received from the parliamentary groups; round of speeches by the spokesmen of the parliamentary groups for the presentation and overall defence of all motions for resolutions — for a period of 20 minutes per parliamentary group — and round for the establishment of positions of the parliamentary groups in relation to the proposals of the other groups — for a period of 10 minutes per parliamentary group; and finally voting on the motions for resolutions. The floor is then given to the Secretary of the House to read out the Bureau's agreement on the motions for resolutions admitted by the Bureau and its voting groups. Whenever you want, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u3	Thank you, President. "I agree on the qualification and admission of the motions for resolutions. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 10 October 2018, examined the motions for resolutions formalised by parliamentary groups in connection with the general policy debate of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in 2018. Having regard to Article 141a of the Rules of Procedure of the House and to the qualifications criteria laid down by the Bureau of the Chamber on 18 September 2018, after the hearing of the Speakers' Committee and by virtue of them, Parliamentary groups may submit no more than 40 motions for resolutions relating to the broad lines of general policy, non-local policy, of simple wording and which cannot give rise to a separate vote within each proposal. Following the completion of the deadline given to the En Marea Parliamentary Group to reformulate motions for resolutions Nos 2 and 39, and to the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group to reformulate motion for a resolution No 33, with the aim of adapting them to the provisions of the above-mentioned regulatory requirements and criteria, these parliamentary groups have submitted a reformulation of those motions for resolutions. The Bureau therefore adopts the following agreement: A. Motions for resolutions submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego (document No 38512). There are 40 motions for resolutions. The procedure is allowed for the 40 motions for resolutions after recasting motion for resolution number 33 (document number 38519). B. Motions for resolutions submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia (document No 38504). There are 40 motions for resolutions. 40 motions for resolutions are allowed. C. Motions for resolutions submitted by Parliamentary Group of En Marea (document No 38505). 40 motions for resolutions submitted: (a) Proposals for resolution 1 to 38 and 40 are allowed to be processed once motion for resolution No 2 has been reworded (document No 38518). (b) With regard to paragraph 39, the parliamentary group was given a deadline ending at 12:45 p.m. for the reformulation of the proposal, since its resolution is generally stated, so it does not seem to agree with its title — "Pyrotechnical material explosion Paramos - Tui-", which has a local character. In the text of the reformulation (document No. 38518), he presented the following wording: "The Italian Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to compensate the people affected by the explosion of pyrotechnic material in Paramos - Tui - who have lost their habitual dwellings or second residences for the full amount of the value of their reconstruction, and to include the autonomous tax deductions committed in the draft general budget law of the Galician Union for the year 2019." It is clear that this is a proposal of a local nature, affecting a specific geographic location — Paramos, Tui — which is why it is not appropriate to the provisions of Article 141a).4 of the Rules of Procedure and the qualifications criteria set by the Bureau of the House on 18 September 2018, after the hearing at the Speaker's Board, that the motions for resolutions should refer to the broad lines of general policy, not local, of simple wording and that they cannot give rise to a separate vote within each proposal. These criteria were communicated to all parliamentary groups for their knowledge on 20 September 2018 (document number 11102). Since then, the Bureau agreed not to accept the procedure of the original proposal No. 39 or its reformulation for the above regulatory reasons. (c) Please make the technical corrections as set out below in draft resolution No. 15. Where it says: "It agrees to address the European Parliament" and "insults the Government of the State", it must say: "It agrees to address the Council of Galicia to address the European Parliament" and "it urges the Council of Galicia to address the Government of the State", respectively. (d) Motions for resolutions tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia (document No 38511). 40 motions for resolutions submitted: 1. The 40 motions for resolutions are allowed to proceed. 2. The following technical corrections are made in the following motions for resolutions: —In motion for a resolution No. 15, where it says, "the drafting of a new law," it must say, "the drafting of a bill." —In motion for resolution No. 30, where it says, "elaboration of a law," it must say, "elaboration of a bill." "I agree on the compromise proposals and requests for separate votes of motions for resolutions: The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 11 October 2018, adopted the following agreement after considering the proposed transactions and requests for separate votes for motions for resolutions, taking into account the above criteria: 1 Take note of the following proposed transactions and requests for separate votes: (a) Negotiated motions for resolutions: 1.— (proposal 38537 and correction of errors No 38567) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 34 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. 2.— (proposal 38538) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the Galician Socialist Group on the motion for a resolution number 37 of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. 3.— (proposal 38540) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia addressed the motion for a resolution number 25 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 4.— (proposal 38541) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Group of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 26 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 5.— (proposal 38542) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Group of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 27 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 6.— (proposal 38543) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Group of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 36 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 7.— (proposal 38544) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia on the proposal for a resolution number 40 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 8.— (proposal 38545) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the People's Parliamentary Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group on motion for a resolution No 29 of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. 9.— (proposal 38546) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the People's Parliamentary Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group on motion for a resolution No. 32 of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. 10.— (proposal 38547) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the En Marea Parliamentary Group on motion for a resolution No 6 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 11.— (proposal 38548) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the En Marea Parliamentary Group on motion for a resolution No 8 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 12.— (proposal 38549) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the En Marea Parliamentary Group on motion for a resolution No 14 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 13.— (proposal 38550) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the En Marea Parliamentary Group on motion for a resolution No 23 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 14.— (proposal 38551) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the En Marea Parliamentary Group on motion for a resolution No 38 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 15.— (proposal 38552) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the En Marea Parliamentary Group on motion for a resolution No 39 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, with the incorporation of the technical correction consisting of the initiation of the resolution in these terms: "The Galician Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to...". 16.— (proposal 38553) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on draft resolution No 1 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. 17.— (proposal 38554) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the proposal for a resolution No 26 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. 18.— (proposal 38555) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on motion for a resolution No 34 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. 19.— (proposal 38556) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the En Marea Parliamentary Group on motion for a resolution No 36 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, with the technical correction consisting of deleting the sentence before "...the Parliament of Galicia urges...". 20.— (proposal 38557) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the People's Parliamentary Group and the Galician Socialist Group on motion for a resolution No 4 of the People's Parliamentary Group and 36 of the Galician Socialist Group. 21.— (proposal 38558) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the People's Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 5 of the People's Parliamentary Group. 22.— (proposal 38559) Proposal for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the People's Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 6 of the People's Parliamentary Group. 23.— (proposal 38565, registered at 09:30 p.m. on 11 October 2018) In writing with register number 38565, spokespersons of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia and of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia make an error in document 38560 and are requested to be replaced by a motion for a resolution resulting from the transaction between the aforementioned verb groups of proposal 20 of the People's Group of Galicia. However, the Bureau, after analysing its content and contrasting with the content of document 38560, considers that it is not a bug correction, but a new proposal submitted outside the time limit set by the management criteria approved by the Bureau. Hearing the Speaker's Meeting of 18 September 2018, following the request for reconsideration made by the aforementioned parliamentary groups and convened by the Speaker's Board, the Bureau accepts the review and, consequently, supports the processing of document 38565. (b)Requests for groupings and votes separate from the motions for resolutions: 1. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego: 1st. Motion for a resolution number 8. 2nd. Motions for resolutions Nos 2 and 4. 3rd. Motions for resolutions Nos 2 and 25. 4th. Motions for resolutions Nos. 1, 5, 13 and 39. 5th. Motions for resolutions Nos 6, 7, 9, 12, 18, 19, 30, 31, 32, 33, 35, 38 and 40. 6o. Motions for resolutions Nos. 3, 10, 11, 14, 15, 16, 17, 20, 21, 23, 24, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 36. 2. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 1st. Motion for a resolution number 16. 2nd. Motion for a resolution number 34. 3rd. Proposals for resolutions Nos. 3, 7 and 29. 4th. Motions for resolutions Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 28, 30, 31, 32, 33, 35 and 37. 3. Parliamentary Group of En Marea. 1st. Motion for a resolution number 2. 2nd. Motion for a resolution number 4. 3rd. Motion for a resolution No. 40. 4th. Motions for resolutions Nos 5 and 35. 5th. Motions for resolutions Nos 19, 25 and 38. 6o. Motions for resolutions Nos 3, 9, 10, 11, 33 and 37. 7th. Motions for resolutions Nos. 6, 7, 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 27, 28, 30 and 31. 4. People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. 1st. Motion for a resolution number 7. 2nd. Motion for a resolution number 28. 3rd. Motions for resolutions No. 34. 4th. Motions for resolutions No. 37. 5th. Motions for resolutions Nos 3, 8, 27 and 33. 6o. Motions for resolutions Nos 13, 14, 16 and 38. 7th. Proposals for resolutions Nos. 1, 9, 10, 15, 17, 18, 20, 21, 30 and 40. 8o. Proposals for resolutions Nos. 2, 11, 12, 19, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 29, 31, 32, 35, 36 and 39. 2nd. The compromise proposals imply the collapse of the motions for resolutions on which they are being dealt, and they will therefore not be put to the vote. 3rd. The vote shall be put to the vote on the resolution rather than on the explanatory part of the motions for resolutions." Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u4	Thank you, secretary. Debate on the motions for resolutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u5	We therefore begin with the round of parliamentary groups for the global presentation and defence of motions for resolutions. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Olalla Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u6	Good morning to all and to all. Ladies and gentlemen, I must begin by confessing to you that I would like to be able to go up to this gallery with the conviction that the end of the debate is not written, that this debate will not be the chronicle of an announced roll. I would like to be able to go up this rostrum — and believe me that I am telling you the truth — convinced that there is sufficient quantity and modesty on the People's Party bench to recognize that the Nationalist Block in Wales presents a package of measures, proposals for resolution, which benefit the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks. Because you tell me honestly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: does this country benefit or not by increasing the lowest pensions in 100 euros that bear 40,000 people in our country, most of them, women? Does it benefit or does it not create 8,000 squares in children's schools so families can really reconcile? [[Applause]] Does it benefit or not that we claim to the Spanish State the 186 million euros owed to this country in terms of dependency? Is it beneficial or not, ladies and gentlemen, to allocate 90 million euros to the fight against macho violence? [[Applause]] Does it benefit or does it not benefit the workers and the workers of this country to have an electric charge that reduces the receipt of light every month? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Because exactly this is the 40 motions for resolutions tabled by the BNG; 40 motions for resolutions that breathe confidence in the country, 40 anti-conformist proposals. Because we don't resign from the same as we always do. For Galicia and for the people of this country from BNG we want everything, we want everything, and we're fed up — believe me — to wait. The 40 BNG proposals seek to give Galicia more economic power and more political power, because we know they are the best tools to improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks. They imagine some government that, having more political power and more economic tools, say no? It would be absurd. To achieve this, BNG makes the following proposals. Some of the most important things I'll try to explain to them and give them a little bit more of what they're doing today. With regard to economic power, we propose a new system of financing just for this country, allowing it to have the key to its money. In particular, an economic concert that enables 100 percent of our resources to be managed. It's not a receipt that Madrid makes a box in Galicia, that it takes 3,500 million euros more than it receives. With that money we could shield public services, increase pensions or support the productive sectors of this country by facilitating job creation. It's easy to understand, it's easy. Galician has the right to manage her resources. And only a compounded government would renounce this right with the false argument that we can't rely on ourselves. This new economic model must be accompanied by a public bank that is a financial engine of the productive fabric of this country and a real alternative to the speculative model. But it must also be accompanied by a fiscal policy to redistribute wealth and put an end to inequality, in which the basic principle of paying more than it has. He said at first that we propose a Welsh electric tariff and an energy policy, which is also supposed to gain economic power in favour of the families and businesses in this country. Look, just in the last few months, only in the last few months of 2018, the bill of light has increased to an average family in this country by almost 15% in relation to last year. Imagine what this means for any middle family in this country. But now let's do one more exercise: imagine what this means for any company. And I'm not just talking to them about Alcoa, imagine what this means, 15% more on the receipt of light, for the 8,000 dairy farms in Galicia. Muxir needs energy, cool milk needs energy. Imagine what it means for an autonomous person. I'm going to give you an example with names and surnames, a real person, meat and bone: Antonio, a veterinarian, who has a 100 square meters place, with a contracted power of 4.6 kilowatts and an annual consumption of 10,900. In 2016 it paid 1,300 euros; in 2017, almost 1,600; and in what we've been doing year, and at the pace it goes, it's about 1,900, and rising. Look, let me read something to you, "Sánchez lowers the electricity tariff to the Basque industry. The budget agreement between Rajoy and the PNV is effective, which benefits some eight hundred companies. The Basque Government welcomes the step." Don't come back with the story that it's not possible. Don't come back with the story that it's not possible. [[Applause]] Do you know what that means, that it is only to make real, effective and publish in the Official State Bulletin a budgetary agreement adopted between the PNV and Mariano Rajoy — which was from the People's Party, in case there is anyone unscrupulous? You know what this means? Not to be irrelevant, to have political weight, but above all, it means defending your country's social and economic interests. Why can't Galicia benefit from its energy producer condition? Why? Since the BNG we have not only defended that electric tariff which compensates for Galicia's nature of producing energy, but also a policy that places this fundamental asset, this basic asset, at the service of the workers and the workers of this country. We defend that it is reduced to a minimum, to 4%, the VAT which consumes energy and that it is the State which assumes the costs of territorial supplements, that it does not prosper the legal resources in this matter. As far as political power is concerned, the BNG proposal is clear, it is diaphanous, and it is also known: to open in this Parliament a presentation for a new political framework that recognizes us as what we are, a nation entitled to freely and democratically decide our future in all planes of our lives; to leave behind the constraints of autonomy, to speak without complexes, without taboos, without corsets, without frames, at all. We need new tools to deal with the challenges of the 21st century; the present, those we already have here, but also the future. And to walk that road, it doesn't serve the same suit as 1978 or 1981. More political power is also defending a Welsh agenda in front of the state, government who governs. In this schedule our proposal includes the transfer of AP-9; the beginning out of the river; the return of Meiraes' palace, with no more excuses and no more delay; and investments, investments to get a 21st century-neighbourly train that meets the needs of our country's social and territorial vertebration. Galliza's problems don't start or end at high speed, when we have the unelectrified tracks in Lugo in 2018. What kind of intermodal are they talking about? And to put on what trains? What about the fever? What about the nearby train between La Coruña and Ferrol? There are many countries, ladies and gentlemen, on this side of Padornelo. Since the BNG we believe, and I tell you honestly, that another Galician is possible, but for that we need a new production model. It's a necessity to do the same thing over and over again hoping to get different results. To begin with, we propose to dump the R+D+i efforts literally. Galician may not be queued in a key look for our future. The model of country we want to be is at stake, and Mr. Feijóo's government does not invest one percent of gross domestic product, it is irresponsible. BNG brings as a concrete measure investing in R+D+i the equivalent of 2.5 % of gross interior in Horizon 2020; it must be ambitious in this matter, because it is crucial. At the same time, we propose a plan for consolidating the research career, we have to undermine the talent, but the talent of this country shrinks by guaranteeing decent working conditions for the researchers and researchers in Greece, for the production of knowledge. The other step of this production model that we propose is to close the productive cycles in the country. It's vital to generate added value, because that's where wealth is; we cannot resign ourselves to the fact that Galicia is a mere supplier of raw materials to transform out of our country. To encourage industrial development by betting on the modernisation of the productive sectors, but also on the capture of new areas, with incentives that are linked to employment fixing and reinvestment in the country itself. And yes, yes, by betting on public participation in those strategic sectors for the economy as a way to achieve a development that benefits and bets on the enormous potentials this country has. Ladies and gentlemen, another Galicia is possible, too, in terms of well-being and equality. That is why we propose, firstly, to look at the thousands of people who are at risk of exclusion in our country, like the 40,000 who have a pension of 370 euros a month, 370 euros a month! It is urgent, but above all it is possible to soften this situation, partly with a rise of 100 euros a month for these non-contributory pensions by taking advantage of the autonomic supplement. It would only represent EUR 40 million in an budget that, if we take care of the announcements we knew yesterday, will amount to EUR 9.800 million in 2019. Secondly, we intend to reformulate Risk. We'll hear again for the last time that the new Risga decree will be passed, which will be four years late. But what we believe, from BNG, is that we have to walk towards a different system and our proposal in this matter is clear, we have to turn Risga into a salary of social and labor inclusion which guarantees the right to survive and whose amount is equivalent to the minimum wage. Thirdly, to allocate 90 million euros against male violence. We are asking for a euro, a euro of every 100 budgets. I hope that the People's Party doesn't seem too much for one euro of every 100. The struggle against gender violence cannot be addressed without resources. You can't approach the fight against masculine violence with proposal and without funding, with mere agreements towards the gallery, just to be well or to wash some consciousness. On 8 March, the women of this country said loud and clear that they are tired, full of toasts to the sun, who want real commitments, and that, ladies, is demonstrated by putting resources on the table. [[Applause]] This debate on the state of the nation should not conclude without an agreement to reverse the cuts of the People's Party into public services. They go out, ladies and gentlemen, of their parallel reality, because it is offensive — and even obscene — to tell the Greeks and the Greeks that health and education are better than ever. That's why we propose a plan to improve primary care, the most damaged by the cuts despite being the input door of the system. It's 2,000 million euros less since Mr Feijóo settled in Montepío. The cuts kill, the cuts kill, ladies, we see him with hepatitis C patients, we see him with the road CAP tragedy and we see him in the 100,000 patients who don't take the medicines they need because they can't pay them. And the consequences of the privatisation process are in sight, especially in Vigo's health area. After seeing the cost of Álvaro Cunqueiro hospital tripled, we have the Povisa case, a private company that has taken as hostages workers and patients, resulting from making health a business. In this case, the first thing we need — and so we defend it and propose it in the motions for resolutions from BNG — is transparency, clarity, light and tachographs. That is why we intend to conduct an audit to clarify the unclear accounts of Povervisa with Sergas, and, of course, to ensure the assistance of all patients and the job stability of the staff board, without assuming — in any case — giving in to any kind of blackmail on the part of the company. In education, it's also urgent to turn back to the cuts of the People's Party. We defend public and quality education. BNG's proposal is to triple the number of scholarships for university education, which nobody stops going to university for lack of resources. And that's going beyond freezing your tuition fees. Families need help and resources to pay maintenance, to pay the floors, to pay the transportation. The president of the Union spoke in this very debate of the nation — it was not the first time we heard it — that it was necessary to achieve university excellence, but excellence cannot be demanded at an underfunded university, as the principals of the three Greek universities report. Will they support the BNG proposal to provide additional EUR 30 million with the funding plan for the Greek university system? And, of course, excellence cannot be demanded while recruiting teachers and maintaining absolutely precarious conditions. Prove, gentlemen, that they are and are betting for excellence. The well-being of a country is not measured solely by its public services, it is also measured by the quality of its democracy, with respect to the rights of its citizens; that is the conviction of the BNG. That's why we bring this camera proposed against the involution winds that blow from the right, from the right, that blow from the structures of a state in crisis, crossed by corruption and that refuse to recognize the reality of peoples and nations. To begin with, we send to the trunk of history this anachronistic and anti-democratic institution that is the monarchy. In democracy, ladies and gentlemen, the charges of public representation are elected by vote. [[Applause]] A head of the state, heir to franchise, with a vital and hereditary nature on the basis of blood, is the opposite to any democratic principle; it does not stand. Nor is it maintained that in the 21st century there are people who, among many other things, stand aside from the law, neither Juan Carlos I nor his heir Philip VI can stand aside from the law. [[Applause]] We propose that the property of the Royal House be investigated and the allegations of alleged corruption of the Emeritus king. But we also defend from the BNG that this chamber — which is the German Parliament, where sovereignty, although partially, resides in our country — is clearly opposed to generalized corruption, lack of independence and reactionary and macho heeling of the judiciary, the use of prosecution as a terminal of government, state cloacas and the use of the criminal code to pursue political discrepancy. [[Applause]] Similarly, a free society needs public media and free media. We have a radio and a Galician television that works as a propaganda apparatus of the People's Party and of exaltation, beyond all, of the president. We have to return public radio and television to their real owners, to the Welsh, and the first step is to end their appointments. We propose to elect the address of public radio and television through a public contest, merit, in which capacity and professionalism gain. His dedocracy is out of the law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u7	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u8	The staff of CRTVG has been mobilising for months on black Fridays, never before — in thirty-five years of corporate history — something similar has happened. That this parliament is not alien to its demands and defends its right to make a true, independent, professional and objective journalism. Democratic quality is also to safeguard, respect and guarantee the linguistic rights of any people. What to say about the state of democracy in a society where the right to live in this country's own language is not guaranteed. And that's the result of the old legislation imposed by the People's Party. The so-called plurilingualism decree must be repealed, which has turned the school into a disqualifying agent, and not I say it, but it says it to the Royal Galaga Academy. [[Applause]] Let us recapture the agreements reached in this Parliament in 2004 and implement what the General Linguistic Standardisation Plan literally sets out. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to close the defense of BNG's proposals by claiming the right of the Greek people to know and value not only their language, but also their history, the right to be proud of those people who have made it possible for us to be in this parliament today, who have made it possible for me to be in this gallery today, people who have become referees, such as Castelao, who have occupied an important part of the debate of the state of the nation. In his memory we propose that the Board make the necessary management for the acquisition of The Last Lesson of the Master; this is not the first time that this is proposed here. As a first step towards the dissemination of all his work without concealment, without manipulation. It's an obligation we have with Castelao, with Alexandre Bóveda, portrayed in the last lesson of the master, and with all the men and women, Galeguists and nationalists who brought us here. These are some of the 40 proposals that BNG makes, 40 proposals that call for ambition as a country, that we do not comply with what is there, that we break up with the resignation and self-recognition that we live in the best possible worlds. Someone said on Tuesday that they weren't utopian. We demand utopia, ladies and gentlemen, because utopia is the horizon and, as Galeano said, it allows us to walk. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u10	Thank you, President. Good morning to all Members and Members. This debate should be a debate to essentially reach agreements, because that is politics, politics is dialogue and the capacity of agreements to solve people's problems. Today, in Madrid there was just agreement on the budgets between the Government, between the Socialist Party and the Podemos party, and that's agreement and that's dialogue. But if you look — when we vote — at our votes, it is the PSdEG of twenty-three transactions will vote in favour — because it is in the transactions — of twenty-one, that is, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is 91% in the dialogue of this chamber, and that is politics, with all the groups. [[Applause]] The other day in the press round about the motions for resolutions we said, I told President Feijóo, that although he does not have time to watch Galician TV, he would be very pleased to see a short film film that won the Goya at the shortest animation in 2013, he's from Jaime Maestro, and his name is The Smoking Dealer. It's the story of a street vendor coming to a village and selling an idea, a new experience. No one believes him save a child, and the child who believes him convinces others, until a moment comes when everyone realizes that the only one who sells is smoke. The other day the speech was smoke, it was: we're happy, we live in an ideal world... but when you get to reality, it's that this reality is an empty background, it's enough deception and fleeting, and that's why we tried to convince ourselves that the change of government had been to respond to new challenges and renew efforts. Miguel Tellado himself, Mr Tellado, who could be that child who in the village tries to convince others of the experience of an ideal world and of a new experience — metaphorically, it is obvious — said he, we were before a consolidated and solid government. Of course, they forgot to say that everything had been done for the municipal elections of Ferrol and the Coruña to be two former Social Policy Councillors, an ex-counsel and an ex-counsel, and besides the former Environmental Councillor, and also as if it had not been, because the current Environmental Adviser, Angeles Vázquez, did such a terrible management of the fires of 2017 that — to prevent it from getting further called — the president pulled it out of the middle rural fire and put it — unfortunately for some — in the environment. Interestingly, the president didn't say a single word of the October 2017 fires, not a single word. He only spoke of Mondariz, far above him, said nothing of Ortigueira, Gudigna, Redondola and Jurés, who had been burning for several days and here nothing was said at all. There was so much smoke, that until President Feijóo promised us what he had already promised in the debate of the state of Autonomy of 2017, and I'm going to put examples: Law of natural heritage, Plan Director of the rivers, Plan of Local Sanitation of the Pontevedra River, Local Water Pact, Strategy of Climate Change, Strategy of the circular economy, Law of Waste, Enlargement of Sogama, New Trials of Tui. And so much smoke there was that day that he even promised seventeen new health centers. Curiously he only quoted Lugo's, perhaps because the candidate for the Mayor of Lugo was in public. And he forgot to say that when he was a candidate for the 2017 autonomous elections, he promised sixty-two health centers, and so far we don't have twenty new ones. He forgot that too. And so, so much smoke there was even promised that in 2019 the first phase of the Montecelo Hospital works would be auctioned. But of course, one receives this response from September 20th that sends the Government and says that the only one in October 2018 is a functional plan. The development, processing and approval phase of the sectoral project of municipal incidence is missing; the bidding and drafting of the project of execution; the management of expropriation of land; the approved project of execution; the expropriation of land; and then the bidding of the work. The truth is, it's hard to promise, and above all it's very difficult to promise it when in the People's Party's motions for resolution the Pontevedra hospital does not appear. Only curiously does the Coruña figure — perhaps it was because the former Social Policy Adviser and the former Environmental Adviser are the candidate. So there is no motion for a resolution on the Montecelo hospital, besides what was said was a lie. Maybe there wasn't that much, so much smoke, and maybe what was snow, you know! [[Applause]] We live in reality, and in the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are very concerned about the reality of Galicia, and that's why we register... President, I'd like to see the runrunrun cease at some point. [[Murmurs.]] I don't care, I mean, if you want to follow me I don't have any trouble talking about it anymore, I don't care, but it would be nice if you'd just respect the interventions, so dialogue and that we're in 91% of this House's transactions and we're open to everyone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] These are the 40 motions for resolutions of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which connect us with the reality of the country and which are aimed at improving the life of the Galicians and the Greeks, promoting a modern and environmentally sustainable Galicia and achieving more democracy and more self-government. With our proposals to improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks, we show that we are very concerned about the quality of public services. You don't have to mention the deceased in the Road CAP in August, because it's in the consciousness and head of everyone we're here. On the road, the People's Party governs, but there are health centres in municipalities governed by the People's Party with absolute majority, such as Soutomairo, Sardinian Cotobade or Lama — speaking of Pontevedra, because I know them well — in which their mayors claim the improvement of their health centers and more pediatricians and more personal for their health centers. It's true that they do it with their little mouth, but they do it. That means if your own mayors say that there's a need for an improvement, they won't say the others! It's not that we invented anything, we don't sell smoke, it's that their own mayors are telling them they need it. That's why in our proposals we called for a strategic plan of stability and recruitment in Sergas in the first half of 2019, because it's not true that there are 1,544 contracts more than in 2008, because if that's the case, we're paying them less. I mean, those 1,544s don't know how to pay them, because they don't appear in the budgets. Maybe they're paid with box B, as Gürtel's sentence says, because we really don't understand it, because they're not budgeted. We called for at least 20 health centres with the 2020 horizon, new ones. In addition, we added a minimum share of EUR 10 million for these health centres. We don't sell smoke, we sell on request, we want at the request of centers and, in addition, with budgets. In education. I don't know if you've known that for quite a few years in Dena the children of one of the schools eat in a work container, and now, as this model seems to be a model that will be very European, maybe those of Salceda de Caselas will also eat in a work container, without water, without light. So we want there to be a maintenance plan, and you know it well, former education counselor, you know it very well. We live in Galicia for now, for now! If you want to debate in Andalusia, go to parliament and present the elections to see if you come out as a Member. [[Applause]] We're asking for a school building maintenance plan, and I'm not going to talk about school asbestos roofs, for example, that you, besides, recognize, but don't want to address. We asked for the first registration fee at all degrees within four years, making up for universities, and it didn't cost more than thirty million euros for Galician Union. Therefore, our budgets can face it perfectly, and families and students would appreciate — especially thinking about their future — to vote in favour. And we fairly ask for new judicial and fiscal offices in seven cities before the legislation is over, that the electronic judicial headquarters be real and that the judicial infrastructure plan be accelerated. Interestingly, you're going to trade with us that option, which means we're not asking for anything strange or selling smoke since we've been there. We're very concerned about quality employment, we're under the state average in job creation, and the job we create is precarious. Igape is paralyzed, there is no training in the workers, there are no skilled workers in the naval, there is a lack of specialized workers, and we are very concerned about the work for women, especially concerned! For every four women with part-time contracts there's a man. We're worried, because that means precariousness, and the wage gap exceeds 20%. We ask that in the boards of directors, in the places where the decisions are made, there be at least 40% women, not that we do the work of "chachachas for everything," as the mayor of Vilanova de Arousa said in these days, unless we do not take the lead again and that we make the decisions exactly like men. [[Applause]] And we demand social dialogue, but it's moving forward within three months, that working conditions get better, because it has to be a non-hazardous job, and that labour stability increases. We're concerned about youth, work for youth, youth unemployment and generational relief. In fishing, for example, the fisheries sector is saying that generational relief is essential. We are concerned and propose that the generational relief in fishing be enhanced. And then there's the families that have minors in charge, dependents, disabled people and pensioners. You vote in favour of our initiatives calling for the public school network to be promoted from zero to three years. They continuously increase the staff of disability assessment teams, which throughout Galicia are very scarce. They're scarce, so rare that a child or a child who asks for disability to be given the card, and so at school he's recognized his disability, in Pontevedra he has to wait on a year's priority to recognize him. And that should embarrass us as Members and as Members. And we ask that the increase in pensions be promoted as proposed in the Government of Spain, according to the change in the CPI. With our proposals to boost a modern and environmentally sustainable Galicia, we want to focus, above all, on infrastructure. I'm going to give you a clue: we're going to come to some sort of transport agreement. The year 2017 was the year in which there were fewer traffic accidents in Galicia, but it was a historical milestone, never had such a low figure. But this year, by October, we're going over the number of dead people in 2017. And the road situation, the bad road situation, something has to do with it. And, above all, the lack of execution of the MOVE Plan will also have something to do with it, because you've only executed 40%, the other 60% we don't know where it is; of course, not executed. We call for budgetary commitments and deadlines for execution. We also ask you to approve a road plan for Galicia next semester, also with budgetary commitments and deadlines for implementation. And as President Feijóo said the other day that they are very concerned about reducing CO2 emissions — logical because we're going very badly — because they approve an alternative mobility plan for Galicia, which the former environmental adviser and the Galician river valet also said in the year 2010-2011 that he already had to take it out. And, of course, we're still asking for the transfer of AP-9, according to the bill that was approved here unanimously. And there's something to be said: the Government of the Socialist Party lifted the veto that the People's Party and Ana Pastor, at the Bureau, had on the transfer of AP-9 when Mariano Rajoy was president of the Government. [[Applause]] And because we need an environmentally sustainable Galicia, we want the forest plan within a month. We want to see it so that we can negotiate it and that the commission of experts is formed to get it into operation before the fires campaign, so that it doesn't repeat last year's October fires, the ones of the Jurés, neither the one of Gudina, nor the one of Mondariz this year's, and because winter is about to begin, but October and November is very dry, according to weather predictions. We show that we have a capacity for dialogue, and in fact we went to the Committee on Forestry Policy and negotiated and voted in favour of what was proposed to us, because we actually believe in dialogue, and because we believe that fires are a country problem. You were leaving with a garden manor and Spanish shoes showing your dialogue. [[Applause]] In the environment we call for management plans for the national park and natural parks, a report on hydrological transition, that carbon footprint — so we are concerned about CO2 — goes into public procurement, that there are campaigns to raise awareness about the use of plastics or that the rules for the management of industrial waste are amended. We will come to an agreement, because we have reached a compromise on this which is called for, precisely, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. And I'm going to stop in the management of industrial waste. It is less bad that, after debate — unfortunately, Mrs Prado is not here — after voting against the committee than we ask from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because in Casalonga, in Teo, there is a problem — there was and will continue to be a problem! — about industrial waste and, a plant, a dump, at last you recognise that this is indeed the case and you vote in favour. The day it was debated was the day the counselor changed and it was a very complicated day, by the way, because no one took the phone in the council to get to an agreement. And our proposals are meant to achieve more democracy and more self-government. Why not the free visit to the Pórtico da Gloria and to all the BICs of the Catholic Church in which public funds were invested? Why not? Why can't we all enjoy Gloria's Pórtico without paying and have to pay an extra to the Catholic Church? Why do we keep historical memory? And we ask the Government of Spain to speed up the legal report to claim that the public heritage and the title of the palace of Meirás to Galicia will arrive. And we have to talk about the Galician Radio-Television Company, necessarily, and those black Fridays that have us down. That, by the way, someone can tell the president of the board — who doesn't see her — that they follow the news from Galician TV on black Fridays, but that on Spanish TV no longer exists, no one goes to black Fridays. It's necessary and that's called de-mo-cra-cia! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And just because democracy is to comply with the law, right, fisheries advisor? That's democracy, legality, that's democracy. And you don't do it, you don't follow the Law of 2011, so it's hard to talk about democracy. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u11	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u12	And also because we want more self-government, we want more transparency. You didn't even get one at a time when Mariano Rajoy was president of the government, not one. Six years! And we are blessed that we come to an agreement, to a transaction in the non-recentralization of competences from autonomous communities to the state...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u13	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u14	...because — I have finished, President — so you will amend that they abstained in Title VIII of the Constitution, which refers precisely to autonomous communities. And finally — not because it's less important, but precisely because it's the most important — I want to talk about equality. We're going to come to an agreement, to a deal in macho violence, and less bad! Because something we're doing is wrong, because if the results aren't what they are, and that means we have to bet even more on the fight. And you have a problem with equality, you have it! On 8 March 2018 Mr Tellado left to say that the March 8 strike was "the most machist there could be" — literally. His spokesperson for Equality speaks of flowering women and flowering men, but of flowering women: "We don't want a government with flowering women." Maybe because there are curtains in the oldest residences that have flowers as well. [[Murmurs.]] But what you don't even have at the moment is the political courage to tell Castelao Bragaña that women are not like laws and that we are not to be raped. Nor do they have the political courage to tell the mayor of Vilanova de Arousa that women are not "chachachas for everything." There was a... it was over, president. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u15	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u16	There was a fairy tale, a comic, which was entitled — inside the comic books I read when I was little — Petra, created for everything; because raised, servant and chacha mean the same. And, of course, we do not share that vision, nor the people who are engaged in domestic service or the women we live in the 21st century. You share that cassowous machismo and that compounded classism and elitism of the mayor of Vilanova de Arousa. Otherwise they vote in favour of our motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u19	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u20	Well, good morning to all and all. He was very good at comparing Feijóo to the smoke seller and Mr. Tellado with the boy he raised in the smoke seller. It's just that I think it's enough that Mr. Tellado doesn't believe in the smoke salesman or believe in what the smoke salesman says, he's a professional and he has to say it, but to believe he doesn't believe it. Because smoke was an effort by Feijóo in this debate two days ago to deny the existence of problems in Galicia, because, of course, if there are no problems they have no need to provide solutions. There are problems and there are no solutions because the People's Party does not have a future project for German self-government or Galicia. Nor did he devote any minute, Mr Feijóo, to speaking of the non-fulfilment of the promises set forth in the investment speech or last year's speech; not a bit of self-criticism about the obvious elevities of his government. And for example, he didn't say anything about the promise of approval of the landscape guidelines for 2017. They promised to 2017 and we're at the end of 2018, and they're still not approved. Mrs. Beatriz Mato, responding here to my plea, said they were going to be by September 2018, and they're not! But, of course, the electrics of your friends who install wind in high-value landscape areas are delighted. Pure chance coming from the People's Party, right? That's why today we call for them to be processed immediately and to avoid the spore, the destruction of a value as necessary for our future as is the landscape. He's gone over the land mobility policies, too. It did not mention, for example, the latest data on INE farm surveys, which indicate that 34,000 hectares have been lost from 2013 to 2016; 3,400 holdings have been lost — twice as many as in the rest of the state —. And yet these abandoned holdings did not serve to increase their territorial base so necessary for competitiveness. A failure in mobility policies, and nothing else, that is, in addition to losing farms twice as much as in the state, we also lose twice as much of the useful agrarian surface, and they now have a smaller area of exploitation. Nor did he say anything about the promised plans for forest resource management. Last year it was said that forest resource management plans were going to be launched; Feijóo's boom was: not a forest resource management plan. Of course, you have to cover up with dictations and read these failures. He didn't give an account of the rate of execution of the partial mergers, another of the star proposals of last year's speech. He said that in this legislation, all the concentration of plots would be over, and I'll tell them how fast they're going. In 2017 titles of two partial mergers were delivered, and he said he was going to end 130 in this legislation. Another failure, another serious failure. He mentioned that Galicia is from the less indebted autonomous communities, and that's true, despite triple the debt since he arrived and charging them 3,000 euros in every Welshman's bag and every Welshman in his nine years of government. Is it at least indebted? It could be! But it's also the one most dedicated to paying the debt service, that is, it's the one most deductible from the budget to pay the debt service. When Mr. Feijóo arrived at Galician Council, the Government of Greece, he devoted the budget to paying the debt of 3.4 per cent, today 18 per cent of that budget is paid, the highest in the state. And, of course, that difference, that 15%, is derived from health, education and dependence. And that means that Mr. Feijóo's debt management prioritizes paying the banks before meeting people. [[Applause]] Little talked about the forest sector. Nor did he say that his star proposal for the joint management of the mountain was the sulphur — that they came to replace the euphorus in a sectarian, absolutely sectarian way — that they were 11, with 2,000 hectares managed together. Do you know how much that means on the Greek forest surface? 0.1%. At this rate they'd have to spend 1,000 years to have the ordered German mountain, a failure! He didn't say that either, he shut up. He didn't say that in Galicia in 2017 the challenge grew, while the rest of the state went down as it happened. And Mrs. Ethel Vázquez laughed when her policies increased the defeats in 2017, and she still laughed! All right! [[Applause]] Yeah, we're used to it, we're used to it. [[Applause]] Fuck! We're used to it. [[Murmurs.]] Well, while... when you're done talking over the phone, you can tell the advisor to calm down a bit... [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] While this was happening, Mrs. Ethel Vázquez was running only 2 million euros in housing access policies, 40%, leaving 3 million euros unimplemented. While this was passing the Galician board star program, the Empty Housing Program, ran EUR 10,499 of €300,000, a 3.4% execution. Nor did he speak of shelter protected Mr. Feijóo, who is also another of the great failures deliberate to potentiate speculation about the right to housing. And he didn't say that in 2015 they were made in Galicia five houses of official protection, and in 2016 four, when in 2010 they were built in this country 2,900. That means that in Galicia it builds thirty-five times less protected housing than in the rest of the state. He didn't mention anything that today in Cambre there are fifty families with the neck rope because there's a voyeur fund that bought houses that were protected until a year ago and that's not renewing their contracts. Because you've made policies that have made tax cuts to those who bought housing to rent, and that makes, of course, people who are living today in this House urbanization have a tremendous vital anguish. You don't care, so they keep laughing. He hasn't talked about anything either, or yes, he's talked about zero taxes in rural -- sorry -- that's people laughing. Zero taxes in rural is laughing at people. Telling a zero-tax person in the countryside after the last few years is outrageous. I don't know what Mr. Rueda looks at me with that face, I don't know if he doesn't like it, but he does.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u21	Don't come in.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u22	They talk to rural people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u23	Quiet. Don't go in there. [[Protests.]] Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Shut up, for fuck's sake! [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Sánchez, you know that anyone's facial expression is not a problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u24	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u25	That's it. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u26	Well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u27	That's it! Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Let's move on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u28	Well, for example, he talked about zero taxes in rural and he didn't say anything about the 200 million euros that have been collected more since he ruled Mr. Rajoy because of the catastrophe. There's 200 million more in rural areas. He didn't talk about the increase in VlV, which they pay in rural as well. He didn't say anything about paying for a water canon, which he didn't pay in the countryside before. And he didn't talk about the Greek diesel, he spoke about Pedro Sánchez's diesel, but he didn't talk about the Greek health centimeter, which means 4.8 centimeters in each liter in the gas oil. They also consume gas in rural, therefore, zero taxes in rural. And I don't follow because there's no time for so much breach and failure. But it did serve to bring in his credibility and to make new promises this year. What works for him is manipulation and control of the public. Even the citizens and citizens most exposed to the propaganda of the People's Party believe the triumphal parts of San Caetano, which are generously emitted in four winds from San Marcos. Today's great battle in Galicia is the political control of the media and the CRTVG, and the slaughter of the private, who don't thank him. The workers and workers at CRTVG are already 20 black Fridays, full of exemplary struggle against the manipulation of information in favor of professional journalism free of service supporters in the service of pluralism. And it's not the question of political parties, it's the professionals of the public environment who manifest themselves because they want to exercise their profession decently without being manipulated and reprisaled. And for that, to have an independent, plural and true media, we ask for something as revolutionary as they comply with the law in the appointment of the Director General, in the elaboration of professional status and in the CRTVG's Information Council. [[Applause]] Another feature of the People's Party's speech in this debate is that the demanding rhetoric replaced the unrest in relation to the Government of the State. Now they're exaggerating, they're demanding, and they're already putting the government's duties on them; a pity they didn't have the same anxiety for the former president of the government. For seven years they kept a meek silence with Mariano Rajoy; meek silence when he blocked the transfer of AP-9; meek silence when he abandoned the services of the conventional train; when he maintained self-financing and local, harmful and discriminatory financing with Galicia. Therefore, before silences submissives and genuflexions before the friendly Government, and now victimistic slogans and beatings in the chest. Well, there's no harm in not coming. Perhaps they approve some of our proposals calling on the Government of the State to comply with Galicia and today they are also asking, for example, to recover the concession of AP-9 for its public management and its transfer to Galicia. But they really add up, not voting here one thing and in Madrid another. You can also add to the request for transfer of the proximity rail competences that we demand to have a better service, with the same arguments that we ask for the transfer of AP-9. They can join the improvement and modernization of the Ferrol-The Coruña line. It's a scandal that for seven years of Rajoy government nothing has been done, not to invest a euro, in a connection connecting Ferrol-Coruña, an area where 450,000 people live. It is also a shame that nothing has been done on the Vigo-Porto connection, so necessary for the economy and for the Greek society. That is why we also demand that the Vigo-Porto connection be included in the rail freight corridors of the European Union. So they don't come down from the demand wave, I think it might be good for the country. Help them find solutions where they've seen no problems before. As for the models, after nine years of Mr. Feijóo's government, it is clear that the reality that we observe is not the result of chance or is alien to the policies of the People's Party. You've been betting for years on job precariousness and job destruction, and that's where the data don't lie. Today there are 75,000 less busy than when you arrived. Galicia presents the worst evolution of all autonomous communities in the State in relation to employment. If we got the job back at the same rate as it was recovered by the state average, we'd have 35,000 more jobs right now in Galicia. As for precariousness, according to membership figures in the General Social Security Plan, only 47% of workers have an indefinite full-time contract. Another feature of its government was the impoverishment of public services and the privatization of public services; fewer budgets and less professional in health and education. Another feature is the free bar for electricians, miners and Cence, to loot the territory and leave impacts on the country for years; environmental neglect and territorial disorder. And now they intend to pass a new land management law when they did not apply the vigor, when the country was attacked by the joint action of the active measures such as the law of depredation, the Nature Network Director Plan, the regulations to favour wind and mining, and the passives, with the tolerance and destruction of the natural, landscape and cultural heritage. We've still seen how the Prosecutor's Office transferred a complaint against the Galician Board for allowing to destroy a castle in Mondoñedo to make a quarry. Nothing has been known about the Greek Green Infrastructure Strategy since the creation of the working group in 2017. As soon as he began to know that Mr. Beatriz Mato was going to be a candidate for the Crown, practically all the projects were suspended, so you see. Nothing is known, or rather not, of the evolution of natural space management plans. And now, as a solution to this outcome, to this legacy that Mrs. Mato leaves us, they announce a new law to cover all these deficiencies. Yes, in that law they leave out the wind sector, which is regulated by the law of depredation, and they leave out or do not include a metropolitan view of the country, which was introduced in 2012 and stays out this year, a true Parisian. Another feature of his government is the lack of self-government will, despite the theater of antante. Not a transfer of competences in all the years of its government, and the transfer of competences in the energy sector, in the telecommunications sector or even with Ence, when it closed to the shameful fact of the reform of the Back Law to extend the stay of Ence another seventy years in Pontevedra and when it was tolerated that Galicia did not have the last word in that decision: a shame and a scandal. We bet on another model against precariousness, which is already a structural feature of the German labour market, against gender discrimination and the wage gap between men and women, which has increased since 2014. There are again poor workers, people who, despite having work, can't live their wages independently. One in three people with work income is in wage poverty, and a majority of them are women. That's why we propose a strategy for decent and quality employment, equipped with the necessary budgetary resources, with clear objectives and clear instruments. Poverty stems from childhood and adolescence and risk manifests totally ineffective and insufficient. The current risk is not an instrument that makes it possible to transition to employment. In 2017, Risga covers only 2% of the population at risk of poverty, so a genuine solidarity policy is to create an effective and inclusive minimum income system by 2020, developing a guaranteed provision of subjective rights. We'll introduce a law with that objective in the coming days. Their policies of liquidation of the welfare state have aggravated the negative social consequences of the economic recession and multiplied inequalities. You only take care of one commitment: to market public services, to dismantle and privatize. In Galicia there are legally recognized dependents, 66,000 of whom 9,388, 14%, are on the waiting list and they receive no benefit. In Galicia there are 117,000 people who declare themselves dependent, many with great dependence, and they don't get their help. They made the dependency a business for private residences. We're the community with the most percentage of private homes throughout the state. They've cut into direct-care staff and senior centres, so we're proposing to strengthen the policies that look after the people who need it, for the sake of justice. 24.8% of the population in Greece is pensioner, so it's fair to propose that pensions be improved, which are updated depending on the real CPI. The right of decent housing is not guaranteed in Galicia. That's why we present a battery of measures for us essential, as it is to substantially increase the public housing park in rental, with a coordinated public intervention for the sufficient generation of public promotion housing. We propose that the State, which has so far been denied, allow — in compliance with the Act of Local Farms — the municipalities to record the unoccupied housing of large housing owners. We also demand that the Law on Urban Rentals be amended to ensure stability for people living on rent. And we need to increase the budgets and the execution of these budgets. And if you do nothing about this, it's that between the market and people doesn't fail, you always choose the market -- the real estate market, the speculative business -- against people, because here there's a contradiction of interest once again. They also converted and intend to turn health into a greedy business. They imposed a de-investment in public health and stimulated the increase in the benefits of private health. They lowered the staff frames of hospitals and health centers and increased the workload of the professionals. They devalued their quality and cut labor rights. Primary care services and continuing care points are disabled. It passed from the Road, and it happened despite the fact that for months there was concentration in villages, towns, cities in Greece, demanding more human resources for the continued attention points and health centers. It happened, and you were warned. The cuts kill, yes, of course they kill! and you knew it. [[Applause]] We must also repeal the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Initiatives, the Law on Predation. That's not a model that can be used for development and rural population fixing. It's a model for the expulsion of rural people, it's a model that leaves land burned down for the next few years. We want a new wind plan that doesn't serve electricity, that serves to generate rural wealth; that doesn't serve to spoil this country, so that these approximately 600 million euros that are billed for Voitre funds, for banks, for electricity, and there are no remaining, as was done elsewhere in Europe, to dynamize the rural environment. We need a new planning of the mountain and we also need the conservation of the useful agricultural area of this country, which is a guarantee of job creation and wealth for this country. We need to improve waste water management in Galicia so as not to impact negatively on fishing and seafood activities. We also need to fight corruption. You know enough about that -- the corruption party -- you know what consequences it can have. You have consistently denied the Ministry of Justice to provide an anti-corruption prosecutor's office in Galicia. Today we demand, once again, this measure. We demand measures of freedom and democracy. In the Spanish State there are citizens in prison for exercising fundamental freedoms; political prisoners, prisoners of conscience. We demand, once again, their freedom. We also demand that they cease in politics that of the speech of the taxation of the Greek. Now that you've taken the relief of Toni Cantó, you should realize that that's not the right way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u30	And finally -- and I'll finish it -- I wanted to talk about some of the historical memory proposals, and more specifically about the mention of Mr. Feijó's Castle when the last lesson of the master was unveiled. For us, that was not just an aggravation to Greek nationalism, it was an aggravation to democracy. He banalized a symbol of democratic resistance to war and fascist barbarism without scruples. But that doesn't erase the story, a story where the red, blood-stained seams come back to the brown blue shirts. A past which historian Antonio Míguez Macho called Greek genocide, because in Galicia in 1936 there was no war, but murder, torture and exile of trade unionists, politicians, peasants and teachers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u32	When the light emerged, the shadows, criminal shadows and murderers who then stole the lives of the best, men and women committed to a modern Galicia, illustrated, progressive and revolutionary. A Galician purgatory that today seeks to erase from the memory of Greeks and Greeks. The seed remained there, that seed of Galicia insubmitted that emerges today in social struggles.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u34	Castile... and finished now......is the heritage of the Democrats, not of the heirs of frankism. You break your ties with the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u35	The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor Mr Tellado Filgueira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. We have reached the end of the debate on the state of autonomy and we believe that this debate is a perfect reflection of what is the current political situation in Galicia at the moment. There's a government, a government that works, committed to Galicia's interests and its challenges in the future. And on the other hand there's an apocalyptic opposition, a black and white opposition, a destructive opposition in many cases, a very uncontroversial opposition. They keep focused on themselves, on their own problems, on their divisions, on their confrontations, insisting on the mistakes of all time and without wanting to hear what the Greeks tell us all in the polls when we call them for their opinion. So we keep listening to repetitive proposals, old proposals that have been rejected over and over again by Greek citizenship when it comes to deciding. They come here with the old speech of always, that bold, boring speech that doesn't support anyone, only the most minority minorities in Galicia. We are on the equator of legislation — and we have to say so because they didn't say so — with all the indicators in black, with all the indicators in positive numbers. Everything works. Economic growth: the Greek economy grows more than Spain. Employment growth: growth in the last year by 9.5% and unemployment in Galicia below that figure. Exports grow: record beats year after year. Tourism increases, the industrial production index increases, all indicators grow. We have a government that works with clearly marked objectives; a government focused on ensuring the institutional stability of our country; a government focused on ensuring economic stability; a government focused on economic growth and job creation. Here are two models, our model and its model. Our model is the model of stability; the stability that requires growth. His model is the model of instability, which is the only thing that is supposed to be the stagnation of our economy. Here's a government that works every day for Galicia, and on the other hand there's an opposition without ideas, no rigor, no plans for Galicia. We've come to a PSdEG who has no more project than to exercise as a delegate of the Moncloa in Galicia, to say if he drinks at all and to say that everything Pedro Sánchez does is fine simply because he is from the Socialist Party. Then there's the BNG, which has no more project than lying and manipulation, which comes to this camera with false data; it's not wrong, no, no, just false. It comes with false, manipulated data, to try to discredit the government, and I think they are worthy learners of the lie and manipulation of Catalan independence that they suffer and want to imitate. And we've seen some Tides of Podemos that have no more project than the insult -- let's hear it before -- and the internal struggle permanently. Luís Villares made several claims that they don't deserve or qualify because they're inappropriate for a representative of the Greeks. I believe that some of the sentences you said in this House are very serious accusations, without any proof that you support them, and that you are discredited as a spokesman for that parliamentary group, as a member of Parliament and as a public servant, in institutions and also in justice. I think it's behavior that can't be repeated in this House. We turn to this debate on the state of Autonomy with 40 motions for resolutions which we will put to the vote, which are put forward in a clear direction: economic growth, job creation, improvement of public services and stability for Galicia today and to build Galicia tomorrow. [[Applause]] These are proposals that everyone knows, so I'm going to fix them for a little while. Proposals focusing on economic and employment, productive sectors, social policy, infrastructure, institutional activity and democracy in our country. I'm sure they'll all vote for them. As far as economic and employment is concerned, we believe it is essential to continue to wager for growth from our field of competence, so we propose to lower the tax burden that the Greeks bear and that government Sánchez does not interfere with that diesel with which we do not agree. We need to speed up the reform of the financing system to provide one that is, at last, just with Galicia. We're asking for a second chance program for boys who don't study and don't work. We are again betting on improving the conditions of public employees through the implementation of professional careers and the drive for reconciliation of co-responsibility measures. Production sectors, our economy. We want to prepare Xacobeo 2021 and count on everyone, because it's also going to be a revolution for our tourism and our economy. We're in the country's legislation, no matter how much it weighs and bothers the opposition, of course! We are in rural legislation, so we insist on the reorganisation of forestry policy, we support the Greek producers and call for priority to be given to rural care in the next phase of the Transport Plan. Social policy has been fundamental to us in the last ten years. We shielded and improved social policy. Any indicator that compares when ruling the Bipartite, or we duplicate it or triple it. That's the reality. [[Applause]] And, therefore, of course, we will!, we will be the ones who open seven residences in the seven great cities of Galicia. We're going to create that law of demographic impulse. We're going to work for our seniors as well as since the Bono autonomy, since the increase in home aid and urging the Government to also meet their share in the Dependency Act, which is to be seen will be supported and will support the Socialist Party now that they rule provisionally in the Government of Spain. We demand improvements in our public health. We have one of the best public health in Spain and Europe, as much as it bothers them. And it bothers us that they don't recognize it, because they criticize at the bottom not a government, but the collective effort that the people of Greece make by devoting 40% of the budget of the Galician Union each year to get the best possible health, as much as it bothers you. [[Applause]] In infrastructures, of course, we're going to maintain our position with respect to AP-9, our position with respect to AVE, our position with respect to all infrastructures. At a time when the parties that despise our institutions — such as those that despise the Senate because they do not control it — seem to be fashionable, the People's Group is committed to claiming our commitment to the social, democratic and law-based state in which we live. We claim the Spanish Constitution of 78 and demand the vigil of the 81st Self-Government Statute, of course they are key pieces. That's why we insist on our defense of the Constitution and call for the Senate's reinforcement as a House of Territorial Representation. And we want to thank the speaker for the socialist voice, who has made it possible to reach agreements on this matter. So, of course we will!, we will keep our postures on the subjects that are by all known. We call for cooperation between administrations: Together, Fegamp, municipalities, so they can go hand in hand, in order to avoid disasters like that of Marisquiño. We'll see what the Socialist Party votes for. We insist on the fight against corruption and ask the State to regulate the activity of interest groups, of course. And finally, by trying to prestigious the public service to citizens a little bit, we believe that neither inviolability nor parliamentary immunity can be a shield to say what one wants, to charge crimes cheerfully or to intimidate the citizens we want to represent. You can't use either inviolability or parliamentary immunity to say on the street "you don't know who you're talking to." [[Applause]] You can't use either inviolability or parliamentary immunity to say what one wants here, even if it's not true, and you know it's not true. That's the really serious thing, and I'm sorry that Mr. Louis Villares isn't here to hear it. With regard to the Galician Nationalist Block, its intervention and its proposals, I have to tell you what Mrs. Rodil said — and I think we agree — that another Galicia is possible. Of course, we're working to make another Galicia possible. We're working on that plan to design Galicia for the future, that strategic plan 2021-2027. But, after listening to her, I have to tell you that, in fact, another Galicia is possible, but that of the BNG would be worse. That's what we don't want, not us, is that most of the Greeks don't want, and they say it repeatedly every time they see them in the polls. You're looking at the landmarks all day long, and they don't finally make the reading. That's the sketchy, ridiculous vision of Greek nationalism. All day watching the frames, they don't move the frames, and you're closing in on yourself. [[Applause]] Look, you made here a series of proposals that I have to tell you are directed directly to your bench, directly to yours, only to yours. They're locked in themselves. You want an agreement, but with the Galician Nationalist Block. Look, Galicia is much more, Galicia is much bigger, Galicia is not you, you represent a very small part of Galicia. Listen to all Galicia and try to represent all Galicia. They defend everyone's interests and leave the political minifundism they've been living in since the 19th century. [[Applause]] Mrs. Rodil, we don't want a Galician yellow tie, we don't want a Galician yellow tie! You do. They want Galicia divided, fragmented, confronted, which today is Catalonia. Not us, we don't want to look at ourselves in that mirror. They also request a Welsh agenda in Madrid. I suppose they've been referring to that agenda that's been claiming for decades and has led them to be taken out of the General Courts by the Greeks. That's his example, not for us. They ask again for the coupon despite listening to all economists in our country saying it would be a bottle mistake that would leave us a billion euros of funding each year. You follow that policy. They demand the public bank and the Welsh electric tariff, ruinous business for our economy. So I think you're still wrong. They ask us to buy a painting, the last lesson of the master, and here, if I may, I'm going to stop for a second, because this motion for a resolution perfectly portrays that ideological minifundism of the BNG that I would say has been going back for years. You want to buy a painting that's not for sale, point number one. You think Galicia ends up at our borders. Yes, yes, you think Galicia ends up on our borders and pretends to argue that the Greeks in Bos Aires, who enjoy that painting, are not like the Greeks we live here. And Galicia is also there because Castelao is universal and Castileo, Mrs. Rodil, it's nobody's, Castile is everyone's. [[Applause]] So in this sense, I know that our position is very clear on that issue, Mr. Sánchez. The People's Party condemned in this House, in a debate of autonomy like this, franchise. Therefore, lessons of democracy, none! [[Applause]] Because we are not heirs of anything, of nothing! Therefore, lessons in that sense, of nothing. I'd like the BNG gentlemen to stop appropriating symbols that are all of them and that are nobody's, that are all of them. Stop lifting borders permanently. By the way, I have to tell them to believe what already exists. They speak of their proposals for the resolution of the public wage for employment insertion. Look, Mrs. Rodil, this is already invented is Risga. Risga is invented, Risga is created by us, a government of the People's Party, with Manuel Fraga. But what are you explaining to us, what are you explaining to us? And in this time of crisis, in these ten years, since the Greeks evicted them from the German Government, Risga has tripled in Galicia. [[Applause]] We spent three times more on Risk than when you ruled. But what lessons do they want to teach us? Don't make up what's already invented. Then they are very amusing their motions for resolutions, in one of them they intend to urge the Council of Galicia to guarantee the burden of work on Ferrol's military shipyards. I don't know if you're proposing that Mrs. Rosa Quintana, or Mr. Alfonso Rueda for the Autonomic Police, buy frigates or corvettes. And what do you propose? Do we have to guarantee the workload of shipyards that depend on the state and Sepi? Hey! Let's take this matter a little seriously. Besides, you know what, I'd like to know where you were, because when the Socialist Government, in its last five years, got zero contracts for the shipyards in the Ferrol River, the BNG shut up and we protested. So, you know what I'm telling you? Mr. Sánchez is even worse than Mr. Zapatero, because Zapatero did not get contracts, but it is that Mr. Sánchez, in a hundred days, almost lost those we left. That's what you're defending. [[Applause]] Who has to defend the state public naval sector? [[Applause]] You're talking about a future worthy of the yellow coal regions and mining plans. I think they should be brave and say what they stand for. Do you want me to close the thermal power plant at the Bridges and Meirama? Not us. Do you want to close them? That's what they're defending. I think they should clarify this issue. About the Socialist Party, Mrs. Vilán, today's picture of what you were bragging about, that photo of today between Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias, is the picture of surrender, you know. Pedro Sánchez has to sign whatever he is, whatever he needs, but do you know they really signed? They didn't sign the state's general budgets for 2019, no, they signed surrender, they signed in the small letter the pardon for independent politicians arrested, those whom you would never agree with. That's the reality. Mrs. Vilan, I had seen a little overacted. The truth is that we have enjoyed Mr Leicega's heel much more in these days of debate and agreement. I saw a little overacted, I don't know if it's about winning a position as a deputy spokesperson with the new manager. When you spoke, I saw that your comrades didn't look at the rostrum, they looked up, waiting to see if the paratrooper came. [[Laughter]] Look, what I can tell you is that the Socialist Party doesn't bring anything new, it brings the usual one, nothing new under the sun. The Socialists begin their motions for resolutions by complying with Abel Caballero's demands — although this name cannot be named in the House. They also ask for more taxes, more deficits and more debt. You didn't talk about it, but those are your motions for resolutions: more taxes, more deficits, more debt. A classic in the socialist manual of how to sink Spain. What's going on is that we'll try among all of us that Mr. Pedro Sánchez doesn't give him time. We know how the economy is slowing down, and I suppose the instability that you generate will have to do with all this. They're asking for 20 new health centers in Galicia. It's fine. The president then announced 19th. We're on that path of 90% of what you were talking about. And I'm going to have to apologize, but you're going to have to come up with proposals for employment, pensions, poverty reduction, from the Socialist Party, the truth is that it sounds like a joke of taste. You who were the champions of unemployment, you who were the only government to freeze pensions in Spain, the only champions to increase poverty rates and those who put Spain in the worst recession in recent history, can't now reinvent themselves with speeches that try to hide their true situation. They talk about corruption—what fun, from the Socialist Party!—. Look, about corruption, one question: why don't you make yourself a motion of censure in Andalusia? A motion of censure to themselves in Andalusia, I think it would be the most important. You talked about machismo. Look, we're against expressions like the one you mentioned here, "chacha for everything." We're very against that expression. We say it publicly through different voices from our party. [[Murmurs.]] We are against that expression. Nor do we like a minister to call a fellow minister of the Council of Ministers a "maricon, or a babysitter." We don't like it, we don't like it. [[Applause]] And we don't like a Minister of Justice to say that he prefers "man courts and not women's courts." We don't like it. You guys have a problem with equality. You use equality to make money policy, to make politics worse. [[Applause]] On the proposals of En Marea, I understand that you come here today, Mr. Sánchez, with very long proposals, many of them resumed from non-law proposals already discussed in commission, because you are the other thing, and more at this moment. You're in the Podemos primarys, you're in the middle of En Marea, you're conspiring against Villares, and that's what your party occupies every hour of the day, all working time. You speak of independent and unmanned media. What do you mean? Hispan TV, paid for by the Iranian regime and what do you feed Pablo Iglesias? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] To Tuerca? Alo President? Give me the TV set and stay with the Tourism Council? [[Laughter]] I thank them for their honesty and for confessing in their motion for a resolution on CRTVG that what they really want is to join the CRTVG Board of Directors. That's what they say in the proposal, they want to join the board of directors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u37	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm very glad they're asking for compliance with the deadlines of the AVE, especially since a few weeks ago, they asked Madrid to stop, not Galicia, which was not profitable. Therefore, I thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They talk about corruption and housing rights. Really? Today? You force me to think wrong, to think that I'm incited to do the job for them in the Coruña. If you want to talk about those judicial proceedings against Mayor Julius Ferreiro, you solve your problems. "No houses without people, no people without houses." That was the premise. [[Murmurs.]] But in the end it turned out that it was "no friends who sell apartments, no friends who don't care." It was something like this: let's take care of our own first. [[Applause]] We've seen this debate about the state of Autonomy with the tending hand. We have put forward 40 motions for resolutions. We offered 14 transactions to In Marea and accepted 2 of 14. We offered 20 transactions to the Socialist Party and accepted 5. And to those who talked about the knee, we offered the BNG 9 transactions and they accepted, Mrs. Rodil, do you know how many? Sky! That's Ana Pontón's knee. [[Murmurs.]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, we're not afraid to rule. We did it alone in the worst moments of the crisis, and we do it now if you refuse to participate in the definition of that Galicia of the future that we propose to you today. If for anything the new policy is characterized, it's precisely because of that, because of the fear of ruling. We're seeing him in every city you're in front of the Mayor: don't make decisions, don't manage, don't rule. We are not afraid to rule, we take the challenge of making decisions still at risk of being wrong, of course! because only what does things can be wrong. We know you can't count on it. We don't count in the worst moments, how are we going to tell now? They weren't when Galicia needed them, and much less now that Galicia doesn't need them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u40	But don't tell us that you have the recipes for success, because where have you been all this time? They do not tell us that they have the revenue of success, because they have always voted against our proposals, and in the end it was our proposals that drew Galicia out of the crisis. Today in Galicia there are 40,000 workers over two years ago, who began this legislation. The unemployment has dropped in the last 2 years in 41,000 people, they like it or they don't like it. I'd like you to like it, but as you live in that apocalyptic Galicia and in black and white, you live in something like, "the worse, the better." We're installed in, "the better, the better." Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u41	Thank you. Positioning of groups. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u42	Thank you, President. I would tell Mr. Tellado not to be angry, which is very bad for tension. It's awfully bad for tension to catch up. [[Applause]] And come so poisoned to a rostrum, even worse, right? Look, I think if anything has shown Mr. Tellado's intervention, they have very little to propose to this country. They have very little to propose to this country, because you haven't come to talk about your initiatives, the most of them, for anyone who reads them, they're a cut and grab the ads that the president of the Government made here. [[Applause]] Then I'll stop a little more in some of them because they were old acquaintances already in this House. He didn't come to talk about his motions for resolutions, of that supposed "other better Galicia" that he wanted to build the People's Party, and what he's dedicated to is the one he always does. Come here to defame, insult, scorn, and then we have to hear — as we did on Tuesday — from the mouth of the People's Party that there must be respect within this House. There must be respect within this House! [[Applause]] To defame, to insult, to demean, to underestimate, to undervalue, which also realizes what the People's Party's conception of democracy is: it begins and ends in itself, and if they are not right, if they have a different proposal, if they have a different political project, absolutely nothing, because democracy for the People's Party begins and ends in them. Then we have to hear, within this cup of defamation and contempt for the political work that people and parliamentary groups are doing here, with the same responsibility and the same right as anyone else, that we've seen is proposing things that are out of the law. Mr. Tellado of the public yards, of the shipyards of Navantia, and he said that the Nationalist Block of Galicia came here... I don't know, a martian thing at all. What we are asking for in our motion for a resolution, Mr Tellado, is that they comply with the law, which complies with the Law 4/2010, on the promotion of the shipbuilding sector, and with the commitments to which they have committed themselves — worth redundancy — the President of the Union in recent years and which have not yet been complied with, such as those centres for the repair of Vigo and Ferrol. We must also believe that all the novelty that the People's Party brings to them, for example in the context of a debate such as what is open about the sharing of power within the State, about the territorial structure of the State itself, the People's Party draws out of the joke absolutely new thing, which is never heard before in this country, which is to propose to the People's Party, which has a majority in the Senate, which in the Senate the People's Party works to strengthen as a territorial chamber the Senate. That is the great novelty, that is the great bet that the People's Party has to offer this country in the context of the debates that have been opened. And what else do you propose in your motions for resolutions? What are those great ideas of the great Galician future that the People's Party draws us? The same recipes, the same recipes, Mr. Tellado — that's old!, that's old! — the old broken recipes, the old promises, repeated again and again until satiety. Routine and repetition, routine and repetition that demonstrate to us — and I have to tell you absolutely and sincerely — that they are exhausted, that they are exhausted and that there is no more to scratch there. [[Applause]] You think, and that's the worst, and I think it's a lack of respect for the whole country, that they don't have to do anything. They don't have to do anything and they have to keep approaching the same routine, the same recipes repeated over and over again. For example, some of the proposals made by the People's Party. The first of the motions for resolutions was an announcement that also brought the President of the Galician Council in the debate on Tuesday's session, which is a programme directed at those younger people who do not study and do not work, who find themselves in unemployment. This is a proposal for the year 2014, 2014! And we wondered what was meant by that plan addressed to the so-called children, from my point of view; what was the 48 million euros announced in 2014. Then there are other subjects that seem to us to be absolutely serious, because it comes here and says: we proposed I don't know how many motions for resolutions and BNG didn't accept any. Tell him everything, tell him everything. How many transaction proposals have BNG come up, Mr. Tellado? Eleven. Eleven compromise proposals have come up with the Galego Nationalist Block in issues that to us are absolutely fundamental and absolutely central in language, in culture. In the language we propose to comply strictly with the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization: nothing. In culture, we proposed something as surprising as creating a national pinacoteca in this country, to give you a little bit of content and real commitment to those absolutely vaporous motions of resolution, not to mention anything else. We have made motions for resolutions to guarantee real commitments that improve the conditions of the proximity rail network in this country. We made concrete motions for resolutions, and you refused to accept that Galicia claims the 186 million euros that the Spanish State owes to this country. One day they should explain why not to want to commit themselves to demanding the state government what it owes and what marks the law, what marks the law!: these EUR 186 million. [[Applause]] But we also made proposals in the field of violence. We continue to maintain the same will as I expressed at the beginning of my intervention: we are still in time to reach an agreement with real commitments, and most importantly, with budgetary commitments. We cannot really follow up by signing agreements without any kind of budgetary commitment, without any kind of economic resource. Because it's smoke, it's propaganda, and it's over and over again trying to make it happen, but don't do anything. They return again with a compromise proposal to ensure that within the judicial spaces of this country there are separate spaces for victims and for aggressors within the courts. Eleven years ago, the Law on Male Violence has been passed in this country, on comprehensive treatment and prevention of male violence, and we have not yet been able to ensure that there are separate spaces in the judicial spaces for women who denounce and their aggressors. [[Applause]] And they intend to repeat the same agreement again, but that's right, that's right, without a single euro. We have a limited capacity for questions of faith — I also tell you —. In this House it was — because it was driven by the BNG — at the beginning of a legislative process to a principle of agreement of the Greek covenant, with a number of very specific points, in which nothing or very little has advanced. I insist that our will is to be able to reach an agreement, but we will not continue to communicate with mill wheels, which, moreover, for nothing better or for nothing put upon the table the resources that are necessary to guarantee a life free of violence for the whole of women in this country. For me, that's all. The last one — and I insist very much on these issues — is still in time, but for that it is political will. We are full of toast to the sun, full of declarations of intentions, full of empty speeches of content. If there is a political will to move forward in a more equitable and fair society, that requires budgetary resources and economic resources to be placed on the table. The rest is propaganda. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u44	Thank you, President. Mr. Tellado, you never fail. And he was talking about a picture of surrender. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, speaking of surrenders, Breda's surrender is a masterpiece that would perhaps not be too much for you at some point to see and also copy. It's a surrender, but it's a masterpiece. Political surrenders do not exist, Mr Tellado, political surrenders do not exist. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] There are two other photos that might be good for you to look at, and they're the notebooks of Barcelona, which came out in many pictures, with that of "Luis, be strong," because maybe that photo, which was the picture that Gürtel's sentence called "profit participation," maybe you have to see it as well. [[Murmurs.]] And perhaps you also have to see the picture of the Government of Spain with women as valid as men, which is the picture of equality. Those are the three photos: corruption, equality and the picture of Breda's surrender. [[Murmurs.]] Great, Mr. Tellado! Great! [[Applause]] You were talking about a paratrooper coming. So Mrs. Rosa Obiña is also a paratrooper in this House and we have the pleasure of having her in here because she moved Pontevedra's list. [[Laughter]] Those are the paratroopers. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] You're going to get out of your ears, Mr. Tellado, because President Feijóo didn't talk about 19 health centers, he spoke of seventeen. You reviewed your speech. He said seventeen as a number, because he only spoke of one, no more, but said no 19th. They'll get you out of your ears, Mr. Tellado. [[Murmurs.]] Also because you say they're against diesel, you're against CO2 emissions and the environment, because in Galicia no engines are manufactured, we don't have a problem, because no engines are manufactured, we've made Diesel no. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We don't make engines. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u45	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u46	No, they don't!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u47	Quiet. Mr. Losada, be quiet, please. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] We're going a lot of time, too. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u48	And it is good for you to review, Mr Tellado, you and the Environment Adviser, the latest decisions of the European Union to reduce by 35% of CO2 emissions. The diesel causes CO2, Mr. Tellado. It's quite contradictory. [[Murmurs.]] And then you talked about why we didn't present a motion of censure in Andalusia. The question isn't that, the question is why after over thirty-five years you've never presented it. Maybe because they lose her. That could be it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Maybe because they lose her. [[Murmurs.]] Because here there was motion of censure, in several autonomous communities; in Andalusia, never. You ask your Andalusian comrades and your Andalusian comrades why they never presented a motion of censure in Andalusia. Also because Mr. Hernández Mancha was fantastic and was recorded in our collective memory. [[Murmurs.]] With regard to our transactions — I mean, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is 91% of this House's transactions; twenty-three transactions are in twenty-one. And with regard to the BNG Parliamentary Group, there are six of its motions for resolutions that we cannot support, because you propose a country model, a nation model that we do not share. The people's right to decide does not exist.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u49	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u50	It doesn't exist. There's no electric Basque fare in Euskadi, there's no Basque fare. Neither Euskadi is an energy surplus, like Galicia. With regard to the coupon — I don't know whether I'm happy or not that the president of the board agrees with what I'm saying — it's not that the coupon is not possible, it's that Galicia is a deficit. [[Murmurs.]] It's possible, but not for Galicia. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I was saying before, regarding pensions, we go to the Toledo Pact and we go up according to the IPC. But we do not agree — as I said before — with its model, because we believe that the only regime in Spain was the Franco dictator's regime, not the 78 regime. The 78 regime doesn't exist, there's the Franco dictator's regime. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And we cannot share that it is said that there is a lack of independence and a reactionary heel in the judiciary and that the Criminal Code is used to shoot at rights and freedoms, and that there are political prisoners in Spain. We don't share it. Many of the people who are part of our ranks and who gave their lives being political prisoners were during the dictatorship of dictator Francisco Franco. There are no political prisoners in Spain right now. And for the right of self-determination there is something as easy as reforming the Constitution, but according to what the Constitution itself says. Because the rest, anything else, is a coup d'état and is to get out of democracy — we believe — we do. We cannot vote for the same reason as one of the motions for a resolution by En Marea, nor does it propose to us a forest plan which would involve breaking up with what we have been working on in the Committee on Forestry Policy, because we cannot wait any longer, because it is essential to change it. And the examples are Mondariz, O Jurés, The Gudigna and all the fires of last year, and the previous ones, and the previous ones and the previous ones. We can't wait, at least another five years for a new forest plan, we want it already!, and we in our proposals ask for it next month. We want him now! And the plan has to incorporate a new forest policy. That is why we reached an agreement in the Committee on Forestry Policy in its opinion. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we reached agreements in the Senate and in the Conference of Presidents, which the other day announced to us by President Feijóo. But we have to take account of the electoral calendars, because there are already autonomous elections called and because there can be new autonomous elections. And you agreed to introduce it in your motion for a resolution. And we agree that the Senate has to be a really territorial representation chamber and that the model has to be decentralized. By the way, exactly like in Republic II, with the autonomous regions that drink our present 1978 Constitution. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But we can't accept your toast to the sun in historical memory. Today the sun came out very much; it went out "a toast to the sun," went out "nothing under the sun"... by the way, there was no more tax on the sun, with you there was it, with the Socialist Party no more. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, speaking of the sun, with that of the Sun King, Mr. Tellado escaped, so—unwantedly—to say that we were going to create a law. That would be done by the King of the Sun, but here are no laws, the laws are passed in a democratic representation chamber. That's your subconscious, Mr. Tellado, come out! [[Applause]] Get out! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your proposal for historical memory is smoke, smoke! They do duties to the municipalities, to the general administration of the state, but to the Union, none, no!, nothing, nothing, all for others. Because he's not Mariano Rajoy now; if he was Mariano Rajoy in the Government, then there would only be for the municipalities. And then in health care -- I mean, they only told us about the new hospital for La Coruña. But we're not going to campaign for the People's Party candidate in the Coruña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u51	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u52	I'll repeat again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u53	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u54	I repeat again: we would like to see that, just like we're in 91% of the House's transactions, you showed the same capacity for dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u56	Well, Mr. Hernando's speech dignified this House: he did not use his parliamentary prerogatives, he was very respectful... yes, he did not say anything positive or clarify all the figures and arguments I gave him about the failure and failure of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] But, as always, it was very constructive, Mr. Hernando. He analyzed the three political forces...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u57	Mr. Tellado, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u58	Oh, yes, sorry!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u59	In case you got confused, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u60	One lapsus, it was a lapsus. Mr. Tellado, Mr. Tellado. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u61	Quiet. The name has been fixed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u62	He has carefully examined the three political forces. He forgot the People's Party. If I had time to analyze the People's Party, I would probably say: a party that is corrupted by internal corruption that crosses it and runs to the far right to try to shelter and retain votes in the Spanish state. [[Murmurs.]] Surely that would be, wouldn't it, Mr. Tellado? Then he showed his conception of democracy. We've been called minority minorities. Yes, sir, to whom we represent nearly 600,000 Greeks, 44% of those who voted. You take 47% of the votes; 53% of the votes are Welsh and Germans who deserve respect, Mr. Tellado. [[Applause]] Is that true? [[Murmurs.]] Those who voted and those who didn't vote. [[Murmurs.]] Totalitarian vision of the politics you showed here. [[Applause]] Then he talked about the diesel. Do you think you're going to eliminate the health penny, which means 4.8 centimeters per litre? Legislature of rural areas. He spoke of the country's legislation. Mr Tellado, the data on rural legislation are there, I have already given them: record in destruction of agricultural holdings, record in destruction of useful agricultural land. You talked about making a law of demographic impulse. Are they capable of making the law? Yes. From the demographic impulse, no, so you can see it. That's right, you can read them. You said you were going to maintain the position with the AP-9 transfer. What position? From here or from Madrid? The one that's blocking it, isn't it? Of course! Well, vote here one thing and in Madrid another. Will that be your position? Or now, as they're no longer in the government, maybe, because they change their position in Madrid too, because they're not gonna cost them... You said that electricity proposals were a bad business for our country. And the profitable business is to have electricity production to export a third of our production, with the environmental impacts that this entails, to end up paying the state's most expensive electricity, with the territorial supplement that Mr. Soria approved, Mr. Tellado? Is that the big deal for Galicia? You said democracy or historical memory didn't want lessons. Well, I think you've actually been having lessons and assuming and, in fact, they're changing. After a long time, they're changing, they're changing. After a long time they're changing their politics. But there's still a lot left to walk. Recently you assumed not to spend a euro on exhumations. They assumed, assumed, talked about reconciliation, etc., etc. Mr. Rafael Hernando spoke of those who were exhumanizing and searching for their relatives only when there were subsidies. You must be miserable! I was talking about Mr. Married that that of thinking about those things and working for those things was of carcasses, that square left that is always thinking about the pits and that. That's the People's Party. They still have a lot of trouble going on. So he doesn't despise any lesson, which, on the other hand, I didn't try to give; I didn't try to give any lesson, I never do. [[Applause]] I'm just saying that Castelao is those who honestly approach their thoughts, not those who try to manipulate their thoughts, to twist history. That's what I tried to say. [[Applause]] You spoke and assumed the risk, the lowest in the state. It only covers 2% of the population at risk of poverty. Mr. Tellado, you've lost a sentence, you've been convicted because you wanted a lady with a daughter in charge if she was from your sister's house to have an independent housing. They lost, they were condemned, and then Mr. Feijóo, evidently, after passing through Justice, promised that it would be corrected. It's not to assume so much either. You spoke of unemployment. They would still have to create seventy-five thousand more jobs to have the level they had when you arrived at the government in 2009; there are seventy-five thousand less busy. They have the worst evolution of the entire state in employment right now. I said before, if we got the job back as it's recovering the rest of the state, we'd have several thousand more jobs in Galicia. You spoke of independent means and what our model was. Our model was Mr. Urdaci, Mr. Tellado. Our model is that of the media that have chief editors who call "desolation workers" the citizens and citizens who were protesting against the fires. [[Applause]] That's not our model, that's your model. Our model is not the medium that causes the Galician television professionals to manifest themselves on 20 Fridays and to exercise their profession in a dignified manner. That's happening in Galicia. Our model of public media is not the one who pursues and reprisals those who say they want independent public media, and that when they give things to Mr. Feijó's face, if they open files. That's not our model. We defend the professionals who defend the exercise of their worthy profession. Yes, Mr. Feijó. You have to listen to truths, and that's not prerogative. I don't know what I'm talking about. [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, yeah. You know those who are protesting on Fridays on Galician TV, right? I think your intention is not to miss out on this, Mr Feijóo, the professionals, right? [[Applause]] Of course not. Our public model is not the one that makes partisan propaganda day after day, too. I'll tell you anecdote. I saw the Telexornal when it came to declaring Mr. Rajoy, by chance. I see him too little because I don't have much time, as Mr. Feijóo too, but, when I can, I see him. Look what I'm saying out of curiosity. [[Murmurs.]] Do you know what you opened Galician TV that day? With images by Felipe González: he's the second president to declare for corruption and so on. See if you don't manipulate deliberately. [[Applause]] You talked about housing. Well, he spoke, froliced about the dwelling, Mr. Tellado. You, even though you don't look like it, are the spokesperson of the group that supports the German Government. It has to be something more serious when it comes to such important issues. He came here to friflify and talk about the Coruña, when in 2017 the launches were increased in Galicia; when the levels of running the housing access games — I said before — were embarrassing; when his star program, the empty housing program, was executed in 3.4 per cent; when you blocked in Madrid also the compliance of the local farm law so that they could apply recharges to the empty housing of large owners; when you have the evolution of protected housing that I said before: from two thousand nine hundred started in 2010 to five or four in 2016—forgive. And when you failed absolutely, you came here to chill and talk about the Coruña; don't chill with it. [[Murmurs.]] And about your resolution 35, about that resolution where you want to tell us how to behave and what to say here, I want to say that you love censoring us, putting red lines on each other. They intend to dictate how and how to act in this House. Look, how is it possible you can't say here that the People's Party is a corrupt party? How is that possible? [[Murmurs.]] We'd be missing the truth. You've been convicted of corruption and you have that reality. They're scandalously cynical. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Good behavior is the behavior that took place this Monday in the middle of the Coruña. Flowers were offered for the tomb of July Ferreiro. That's a good behavior and a democratic behavior. It gives us your parliamentary hypocrisy, Mr. Tellado. Look, as far as the motions for resolutions are concerned, there is a great coincidence with the proposals of the BNG and the Socialist Party of Galicia. We agreed on the recovery of public services, we agreed on strengthening health, education and dependence. We agree that there is a need for improved territorial management and environmental respect. We agreed that policies should be made for decent employment, to foster knowledge. We agree with the need for unmanned public media, for the defence of the language and of the culture of Galicia, for the empowerment of the railway, etc., etc. And it also shows a clear distance with the People's Party, and that's why the votes will be consistent with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u63	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. How difficult it is, increasingly, to climb this rostrum! For if you speak of the Crown, those of the Tides are troubled; if you speak of Vigo, they are disturbed at the PSOE. In the end, we can't talk about Galicia. You want us to talk about yours, don't you? [[Applause]] Look, anyone who approaches this debate of the state of autonomy can see that there are two undeniable political realities in Galicia: on the one hand, the existence of a solid government, a consolidated government, a government supported by an exceptional parliamentary majority, a government that comes in this House when it plays, to balance the facts and presents future plans for Galicia; and on the other hand, we have a compound opposition — as it disturbs them — by three minority minorities, unable to articulate even a coherent speech, not between them; it is that, if in your group, Mr. Sánchez, several Members would not say the same, because your group is a party salad. And so that's the reality. Look, an X-ray of the opposition in one minute: we have a BNG that follows without any more project for Galicia than copying Catalan independence. We have a PSdEG-PSOE anesthetized, that anyone would say it was what he lost in that motion of censure; they didn't get a single PSdEG-PSOE minister in the Government of Pedro Sánchez and, in addition, they have to devote all day to defending Mr. Pedro Sánchez's grievances with Galicia; that's the reality of the Socialist Party. And then we have a Tides, the Tides of Podemos, which spend the whole day fighting among themselves; it's Ferrier against Villares, March against Villares, Basement against Gomez-Reino... and, in the meantime, the Greeks will give up understanding their struggles and understanding what you propose to Galicia. Mrs. BNG, you're surprised that we're doing what the president of the board says. It's just, if you guys did that when they ruled Galicia, like another cock would sing, right? [[Applause]] Look, at the BNG we saw a small speech for a young Galician, which is the Nationalist Galician. They don't vote for eight percent of the people. An exclusive Galicia looking enviously at Catalonia. And we have no envy for what's going on in Catalonia. We don't want a Galician yellow tie, we tell him. And, therefore, we do not believe in that decimononic Galicia that you have drawn, in that apocalyptic Galicia, in that Galicia in black and white, in that Galicia in a minority, in that compounded Galicia, in that exclusive and excluded Galicia that you propose. We don't believe in that model. The Socialist Party, Mrs. Vilán, awaits the arrival of the paratrooper. They all looked up while you were talking. I am a sleepy PSdEG who awaits the remodeling of his parliamentary group; a PSdEG anesthetized by the Government's delegate in Galicia, who is his role, who tells them: "Nothing to criticize the agravations of Pedro Sánchez with Galicia"; a group intervened by the north and the south: intervened by Mr. Javier Losada, intervened from the south by Mr. Abel Caballero, who has forbidden to quote his name. Thank you, Mrs. Vilan, for recognizing Mr. Pedro Sánchez' surrender this very morning, surrendered to Podemos, surrendered to the independenceists. The small letter of what was signed today is to pardon the independent prisoners' politicians. That's the little letter. We'll see. We'll see. Look, you're right: I'm nineteen new centers and two remodeled. So, 19th, Mrs. Vilan, 19th, 17th, two remodeled. [[Applause]] Mr. Sánchez, do not doubt my political coincidence with the president of my party, do not doubt it. I won't doubt his political coincidence with the spokesman sitting next to him, either. I won't. Look, beyond the political opinion that I deserve the Tides of Podemos, I think your voters deserve respect, too. [[Laughter]] And what they don't deserve is the permanent struggle against Noriega, the Basic Against Gomez-Reino, the Churches against Errejón... and zero proposals for Galicia. That was his model. Anyway, I wish you luck with Podemos militants in Galicia, because you will have to choose between a national Member who lives in Madrid, because it says that Galicia can rule from Madrid, or a national Member who lives in Madrid but who, in fact, wants to head the lists of Brussels, wants to rule Podemos-Galice from Brussels. You have to choose one in Madrid, one in Brussels. That's your model. Look, the Podemos tides are news every day in the press. Over the past few weeks, the Town Hall led by July Ferreiro—Atlantic Sea— generated three news stories, three. The first: cancellation of the purchase of the floors to a founder of the Atlantic Seas, because there are signs of famine in the contest. Second news: the annulment of a fair, because there are also hints of magnetism in the Gastronomic Forum contest. Third news: that the Prosecutor's office admits to processing everything that has to do with the prison case. What do you want me to say? Do you really want us to talk about housing policy of Podemos tides? What is the lesson for you as a manager? Look, yesterday the truth is we saw a picture that is paradigmatic, as an example of what the Tides of Podemos are. Yesterday Julius Ferreiro was stepping on a red carpet because he was going to a movie star. He's about to step on rugs this week, actually! But you know it's the bad guy? [[Applause]] Which went to the premiere of a film. Do you know what the film title is like? The shadow of the law. She also chose the week to go see this movie! [[Applause]] Look, let's talk about reality, let's not talk about movies. The reality is that two days ago we were able to hear the voice of your group make an intervention which is outraged by this House, in the German Parliament, in the debate on the state of autonomy. I think they should channel their political frustration any other way. These are not ways to behave in a democratic Parliament. And you have to think about it: when no one supports you, you have to have enough time to look up enough to make self-criticism. The hate that is transmitted is not compatible with the normal functioning of the institutions. If you can't respect what you don't think like, you better not go to politics. That's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] It's best to know how to leave in time before one is thrown out by his own companions. Mr. Luis Villares left an interview in the hemerotheques in which he said, in August 2016: "My only militancy and commitment is with the Constitution. I cannot hide that in certain environments to be defined as such causes bad faces"—referred to their own party— "but being independent brings these things. I do not deny the Constitution, because I believe it defends very positive values." Who saw you and who saw you! Because the truth is that the motions for resolutions accompanying the En Marea Group do not go precisely to defend the democratic values of the Constitution. Look, Mr. Villares, I'm going to leave to the President of the House this judgment published yesterday by the Supreme Court. Yesterday the Supreme Court gave us the reason we've been saying years. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira shows a document.]] You can't exercise tyranny from the political scenes. Not only do you judge from a bench but you have made politics from a trial. That's what this Supreme sentence says. You handed a sentence against the same Council of Galicia, which was to be announced as a candidate only a few days later, and when it had been months since it was negotiating its candidacy and its name was in the newspapers to join the candidacy of the Tides of Podemos. You're not a worthy representative of Welsh citizenship, but you're not worthy to continue to impart justice either from the scene or from the courts of justice. We think that's not the way. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u65	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u66	Mr. Sánchez, you were talking about the painting of Castile.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u67	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u68	Look, Castelao is the heritage of everyone, it is the heritage of all the Greeks. It's not the heritage of any party. It's nobody's heritage. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u69	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u70	The painting is here, the painting is in Galicia because we brought it, because it brought this Government, the Government of the People's Party, to enjoy it and to get to know it all the Greeks and the Greeks. That's the reality. [[Applause]] Lessons, none! [[Applause]] None! [[Applause]] Galicia is nobody's, Galicia is everyone's. Stop misappropriating the symbols. And this is also valid for the gentlemen who are next to you, who try to appropriate the symbols and change them. Because the flag isn't worth it either, and they put a star on it, because it has to be just them. Stop appropriating the symbols because the symbols are everyone's. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And for the voters, Mr Sánchez, for all the voters. His intervention reminded me of one of Mr. Fernán-Vello who said that the Greek people were ignorant and alienated because he was voting for the People's Party. Look, we respect minorities, but you respect the majority, too. Because we're here because he wanted a huge majority of the Greeks, 48% of the Greeks voted, and they voted high and clear, in the September 2016 elections. They wanted a serious government, a solvency government, a government focused on the problems of Galicia, a government that would guarantee the political stability of our country. Something that you weren't able to offer in any way, because you'd all have to get together and yet you wouldn't get there. Because they wouldn't be able to join a majority like ours together.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u71	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u72	We're here to serve Galicia and not to serve Galicia. We're here to solve people's problems. We've been doing it for nine years. There's a clear, marked roadmap, which is the future of this community, and we can write it down among us all. And you can also bring ideas, but you work in the right direction, you listen to what people say. There is a roadmap, a success sheet: in the last two years 41,000 unemployed less in our community. [[Strong murmurers.]] You come with a whole amendment that ultimately only reflects the failure of your respective political projects. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u73	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. [[Mr. Villares Naveira asks for the floor.]] Mr. Villares, what do you want the word for? Give your voice to the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u74	Mr President, I would like the floor to ask you, if you do not do so by the honourable Member who has just spoken, to remove all the sentences relating to the comment made by the Supreme Court of Galicia which has been partially confirmed today in the Supreme Court. I say this for two reasons: firstly, because it is formally offensive to say that this judgment, firstly, was given by a person — when it was not — for three reasons; secondly, that sentence was handed down unanimously and, therefore, the formally abusive accusations that it is dictated by political and non-legal reasons are imputed not to a person who is speaking here but to three persons, two of whom are active magistrates. It is therefore an incorrigible charge, not against the one who is speaking to him — who is also speaking to him — but also against the dignity and judicial function of the High Court of Justice of Galicia. Secondly, the truth is lost when it is said that this sentence which is stated published today is totally abrogating the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. It is not, in part, confirmatory; therefore, the main thesis is not what the honourable Member says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u75	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u76	Which is why, and because of the seriousness of the facts being imputed — in particular the imputation of a judicial resolution not by legal criteria but by another type — I ask you to be removed from the Journal of this House, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u77	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Those killings are being made. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, sorry. I know how far the regulation goes. [[Murmurs.]] If Mr. Tellado wants to intervene... But there's no replica. I'm telling you there was an allusion and you responded to that allusion. [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, shut up! [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira asks for the floor.]] Mr. Tellado now wants to intervene. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes, but it's the same! Now you're going to speak to Mr. Tellado. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll ask Mr. Tellado, that's what I'm doing and he'll talk to me. Mr. Tellado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u78	Mr President, it is to clarify the question raised by Mr Villares. I'll leave to the Presidency the Supreme Court's judgement to which I am referring, in which, indeed, Mr. Villares is right: he overturns his sentence by 95% and gives the reason to Mr. Villares only by 5%. Therefore, in this Supreme's judgment it is said of abuse of judgment, of extralimitation. [[Murmurs.]] And I think it is good that all parliamentary groups and all Members have been circulating since the Presidency of the House to gain knowledge of what each one did before being in this House. And, therefore, if you do justice and condemn yourself from a bench...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u79	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u80	...and if you were political from a courthouse, people also have the right to know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u81	Make him come...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u82	In any case, I circumscribe the question as to what Mr Villares said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u83	It's been clarified. [[Protests.]] Yes, yes, yes, it's clear... [[Strong murmurers.]] Sorry, it's clear. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I'm sorry, that'll clear up later. I'm sorry, one of the things asked here today is self-control over parliamentary immunity. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Everybody do it! [[Protests.]] Everybody do it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That proposal is very good. 35! Everybody do it! Everybody! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Give me the sentence. [[Protests.]] Yes, yes, it's over! This is a great proposal: self-control over parliamentary immunity. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no! I'm not going in, Mr. Villares, with you in another matter which is very unpleasant to me about some comments you've made. I don't want to go in! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Silence! To vote! To vote, it's over! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] Let's vote! No, no, no... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's already been corrected by him! Yes, yes, he clarified the sentence! [[Protests.]] [[Protests.]] Silence! You made it clear! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. That's it! To vote! [[Strong murmurers.]] Please, if you don't, I'll call them in order. You'll see! [[Protests continue.]] Let's vote. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Let's vote! Let's lock the doors! [[Protests continue.]] No, no, no, but... Let's vote! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Protests continue.]] I'm not giving the floor. Let's vote! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Villares, you don't have the floor, we're going to vote! If you don't agree... [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, here was the mechanism set up in this Parliament. Yes, it's been clarified. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you don't agree, write it down. [[Protests.]] If you don't agree, put in a letter, which will be valued for legal services. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, self-control, gentlemen! Parliamentary immunity... self-control for all, great proposal that 35! [[Murmurs.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] Let's vote! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're done! [[Murmurs.]] Let's vote! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] There'll be a chance. You, if you don't agree with this, can always direct a writing. The debate has been directed by me. No, no, no, it's already settled by me, here's your sentence. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That's it! It's over! No, no, don't talk to me, Mr. Villares. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That's it! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Villares, I call you by order. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Villares, I call you in order for the first time. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, it's over! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'll call you in order for the first time, Mr. Villares. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, it's just, if I have to call him a second and a third again, I have to kick him out. And I don't want to. No, no, we're going to vote! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, that's it! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Villares, I call you by order... Silence! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Villares, I call you in order for a second time. If you persist, I'll be forced to expel him, and I don't want to. [[Murmurs.]] Let's vote! [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, you're not in the use of the word. Silence! [[Strong murmurers.]] That's it! [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, Mr. Lago, I call you by order too. [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Silence! Let's vote! Voting of motions for resolutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u84	I ask you to pay attention because it's a complex vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, it's not a shame of the House, it's common sense, self-control of parliamentary immunity. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Vote for the motions for resolutions adopted
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u85	We begin by voting on the motions for resolutions that have been negotiated. I have to read them all because they're 22, but you have to read them. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Nationalist Block Galego and the G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the motion for a resolution number 34 of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Nationalist Block Galego and the G.P. of the Galician Socialists on draft resolution No. 37 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 25 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 26 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68; abstentions, 5. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Socialists of Galicia and the G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 27 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Socialists of Galicia and the G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 36 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67; abstentions, 5. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Socialists of Galicia and the G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 40 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes in favour, 19. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. Galician populace and G.P. of En Marea on draft resolution No 29 of the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. Galician populace and G.P. by En Marea on draft resolution No. 32 of the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68; abstentions, 5. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. by En Marea on draft resolution No 6 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. by En Marea on draft resolution No 8 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 40; abstentions, 5. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. by En Marea on draft resolution No. 14 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 40; abstentions, 5. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. by En Marea on draft resolution No. 23 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. by En Marea on motion for a resolution No. 38 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. of En Marea on draft resolution No 39 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, with the incorporation of the technical correction consisting of initiating the resolution text in these terms: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union...". The voting was as follows: 27 votes in favour, 40 votes against; abstentions, 5. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. by En Marea on draft resolution No. 1 of the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. by En Marea on draft resolution No. 26 of the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. by En Marea on draft resolution No. 34 of the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. by En Marea on draft resolution No 36 of the G.P. in Marea, with the technical correction consisting of deleting the sentence before: "...the Parliament of Galicia urges...". The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. Galician populace and G.P. of the Galician Socialists on draft resolution No. 4 of the G.P. People in Galicia and draft resolution No. 36 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes in favour, 19. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. Galician populace and G.P. of the Galician Socialists on draft resolution No. 5 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes in favour, 19. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. Galician populace and G.P. of the Galician Socialists on draft resolution No. 6 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes in favour, 19. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Voting of the motion for a resolution resulting from the G.P. transaction. Galician populace and G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia following the agreement that was taken at the Board of Spokesman and collected at doc. #38565. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes in favour, 19. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Voting of the motions for resolutions tabled by the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u86	Let's go now with the other proposals. We started with those of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group; in particular, with the motion for a resolution number 8. Voting of motion for a resolution No. 8 of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 5; votes against, 40; abstentions, 28. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, G.P.D.'s proposal No. 8 of the Galician Nationalist Block is rejected. Voting of motions for resolutions Nos. 2 and 4 of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 5; votes against, 54; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, motions for resolution 2 and 4 of the G.P. do Nationalist Block Galego are rejected. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 22 and 25 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. Consequently, motions for resolutions Nos 22 and 25 of the G.P. were adopted. of the Galician Nationalist Block. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 1, 5, 13 and 39 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 54. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, motions for resolutions Nos 1, 5, 13 and 39 of the G.P. are rejected. of the Galician Nationalist Block. Motion for a resolution Nos 6, 7, 9, 12, 18, 19, 30, 31, 32, 33, 35, 38 and 40 G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Voting of G.P.'s motions for resolutions. of the Galician Nationalist Block except those already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Voting of the motions for resolutions tabled by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u87	We are now continuing to vote on the proposals of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We begin by voting on motion for a resolution No. 16. Motion for a resolution No 16 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 40; abstentions, 19. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Motion for a resolution No 34 from the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes against, 5; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 3, 7 and 29 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 40; abstentions, 5. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Voting of G.P.'s motions for resolutions. of the Galician Socialists except those already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Voting of the motions for resolutions tabled by the G.P. of En Marea
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u88	We are now voting on those of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. We begin by voting on motion for a resolution number 2. Motion for a resolution No 2 of the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Vote for draft resolution No. 4 of the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Motion for a resolution No 40 from the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 5 and 35 of the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 54. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 19, 25 and 38 of the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution Nos 3, 9, 10, 11, 33 and 37 G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Voting of G.P.'s motions for resolutions. From Marea except for those already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Voting of the motions for resolutions tabled by the G.P. Galician People
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u89	We are now voting on the motions for resolutions of the People's Parliamentary Group. We started by voting number 7. Motion for a resolution No. 7 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 28; abstentions, 5. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution No 28 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 59; votes against, 14. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution No 34 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 14; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution No 37 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes against, 14; abstentions, 5. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution Nos 3, 8, 27 and 33 G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes against, 14; abstentions, 5. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 13, 14, 16 and 38 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 14; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution Nos 1, 9, 10, 15, 17, 18, 20, 21, 30 and 40 G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes in favour, 19. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted. Voting of G.P.'s motions for resolutions. Galician people except those who have already been voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 19; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-11-DSPG085.u90	Finish the full here. Good afternoon.
