ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. She has justified the inattentiveness of this plenary by Mrs Concepción Burgo López, whom we wish for a prompt recovery. And we're on the agenda. Preliminary point. Promise or oath to abide and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Autonomy of Galicia of the new Members of Patricia Otero Rodríguez and of Flora Maria Miranda Pena
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u2	We shall do so by complying with Article 7.1 of the Regulation, which requires the promise or oath to comply with and maintain integrity to the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government to the new Members. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. I will then call on the honourable Members individually so that they can answer the question put to them by this presidency from the seat itself. Mrs. Flora Maria Miranda Pena, do you swear or promise to adhere to and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u4	Thank you. Ms. Patricia Otero Rodríguez, do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u5	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u6	Thank you. Once the promise or oath is given, they acquire the full status of Members. Welcome and very lucky in this Parliament. [[Applause]] And now we're going into the first item on the agenda. Debate and vote of Ditome issued by the Special Committee for the Study and Analysis of Forest Policy Reforms, Forest Fire Prevention and the Galician Forest Plan evaluating the experience accumulated since 2006 and, specifically, the extraordinary wave of fires that has just suffered Galicia in October 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u7	There are particular votes in favour of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego and the Parliamentary Group on the Environment. The President of the Commission, Mrs Raquel Arias Rodríguez, has the floor to present the Commission's statement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u8	Thank you, President. The Special Non-Permanent Commission for the Study and Analysis of Forest Policy Reforms, the Prevention and Extinction of Forest Fires and the Galician Forest Plan, assessing the experience accumulated since 2006 and, specifically, the extraordinary wave of fires recently suffered by Galicia in October 2017, was created, at the request of the People's Parliamentary Group, in accordance with Article 51 of Parliament's Regulation of Galicia by the Bureau of Parliament, after the hearing of the Speakers' Board, at its meeting on 14 November 2017. The committee was set up on 28 November 2017, composed of the following Members and Members. Popular Parliamentary Group: Don Raquel Arias Rodríguez, Don Silvestre José Balsairos Guinarte, Don Mois Blanco Paradelo, Don José González Vázquez, Don José Alberto Pazos Couñago, Don Gonzalo Trenor López and Don Daniel Vega Pérez. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea: don David Rodríguez Estévez and don Paula Quinteiro Araújo. For the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia: Don Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga and Mr José Antonio Quiroga Díaz. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego: Don José Luis Rivas Cruz. In this session, the Bureau was elected by the following members: President, Ms Raquel Arias Rodríguez; Vice-President, Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago; Secretary, Mr José Antonio Quiroga Díaz. At its session on 13 December 2017, its rules of operation were adopted, in which Article 1 states that the Commission is created with the aim of studying and analysing possible reforms to forest policy, forest fire prevention and extinction policy and the Galician Forest Plan, assessing the accumulated experience since 2006 and, specifically, the extraordinary wave of fires that have just suffered from Galicia in October 2017. For the achievement of the goal set, the Commission approved a workplan for its meeting on December 27, 2017. The Commission held sixteen working sessions, at which sixty attendances were held; in addition, it received the various documentation provided for in the work plan and also the documentation provided by the persons attending. The following speakers were appointed by the Commission at its meeting on 27 April 2018. For the People's Group: Don José González Vázquez, as holder, and Don Silvestre José Balsairos Guinarte, as alternate; for the Group of En Marea: holder, Don David Rodríguez Estévez, and alternate, Ms Paula Quinteiro Araújo; for the Socialist Group: Don Xoaquín Fernández Leicega, holder, and Mr José Antonio Quiroga Díaz, alternate; and for the Nationalist Block Galego: Don José Luis Rivas Cruz, holder, and Mr Xosé Luís Bará Torres, alternate. The inaugural session was held on 27 April 2018. Subsequently, the presentation held the following meetings on 28 May 2018 and 6 and 10 July of the same year, and proceeded with the elaboration of the project of dictatorship. The draft opinion was debated and voted on in conjunction with the amendments tabled by all parliamentary groups at the Commission meeting on 31 July 2018 and was adopted. By resolution of the Presidency of the Galician Parliament of 7 August 2018, the individual votes cast in relation to the above-mentioned opinion were qualified and ordered to be published by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea in document No. 34407, and by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales in document No. 34408. The ruling, with particular votes, was published in the Official Gazette of the German Parliament on 10 August this year. Finally, it should be noted that the ditame is structured in four areas of analysis, responding to the scheme thus established by the approved work plan. One: analysis of the incidence of fires in Galicia in 2006-2017, with special attention to the wave of fires in October 2017. Two: evaluation of the experience accumulated since 2006, measures taken to prevent and extinguish fires in 2006 and beyond and their effectiveness. Three: analysis of the structural causes of forest fires in Galicia. Four: forest policy reforms in the prevention and extinction of fires and to achieve a multifunctional, living and dynamic, sustainable and profitable mountain for forest owners. It is therefore necessary to complete the processing of this dictation with its approval, if so, by the plenary session of the Galician Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u9	Thank you, Mrs Arias. We begin with the round of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, to defend the particular votes cast. You have the floor, first of all, for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. If anything we learn from the Special Study Commission is that climate change is installed between us and that cycles are becoming more and more acute and the periods of extreme drought are stronger and closer to each other. This chaotic model of present-day mountain shows us its failure in increasingly aggressive, increasingly unexpected, increasingly violent firebreaks with increasing destructive capacity. We need a 180-degree turn in the policies of the Middle East. But the dictates developed by the PP, in a commission imposed and made to disseminate their responsibility, and consensually with the Socialist Party, which approved each other on July 31st, did not take the opportunity to amend the suicide policies towards the German mountain. There is nothing concrete about rural policy, and with regard to mountain politics, it shows an interesting inconcretion of the central issues. The BNG defends in its alternative view the need to promote policies that lead us to a new multifunctional mountain of truth, which is serious and non-productive and productive. A social asset that harmonizes the primary profitability of wood in a system of diversity supplying the second transformation with traditional extensive pastures, with social uses and with the increasingly pressing need for the preservation of soil wealth, the burial of CO2 and leisure, in the prevention and conservation of this good, fixing the population that manages it properly. A mountain that generates jobs and distributed permanent wealth, that settles population, that articulates with a populationed and environmentally friendly agribusiness environment and food quality. A mountain and a rural environment of the future, opposed to what you plant in your diet: a lot of infra-m wonderer for pasta and small energy in a deserted rural environment. The word and, therefore, the concept that you dare not name in your saying is "mosaic." That's the key; the key to fighting the virulence and intensity of fires, the key to establishing an acceptable and future biodiversity, the key to manoeuvring but essential concept and reality of multifunctionality. Since then, we have focused on the convenience of mixed mosaic forests and the total or partial substitution of high-fuelling species and fluflammability by cadufioli. The textiles should in no case exceed 50 hectares, and in risk areas, according to danger, would go from 1 hectare to the top of 20. These masses would have to be of different fuelity, boosting reforestation with decidifoli. Complementary to this management figure is the need to address the protection of population centres and infrastructures. They never wanted to understand it, because whoever commands, commands, and lobbies have a great power of persuasion. The Uxfor, forest management units, were designed to overcome the atomization of the private property of the mountain, making it easier to manage for the multifunctional use of the private mountain to establish the protection strips of population cores, making them profitable. You insist on the Sofors, that they've been so successful that in nine years they haven't reached two. In a year and a half there were thirty-five Uxfors and many others in management. Do we buy? Look at the BNG proposal, key and diametrically opposed, ladies and gentlemen, the PP plans and favors of an ordered rural and core protection tracks managed by groups of associate owners freely. "The Council of Galicia will promote and promote associationism and the grouping of forest owners primarily through the figure of the Uxfors" — said our dictatorship. "As such, it will facilitate counselling, training and technical support through appropriate personnel to the owners' associations and neighbourhood meetings on the best comprehensive and sustainable management techniques in their mountains. To carry out information campaigns on the figure and its advantages for the use of the mountain by private owners, especially for those who own small plots that are not likely to take advantage of individually." You, PP gentlemen, would never dare to do this, that the public authorities put themselves entirely at the service of the people to overcome an evil endemic and make this country walk firmly and in the future. No, you don't give up for the people. Timidity? It's all right, it's a wish and hidden interests. To "settle" -- to say our dictate -- a moratorium on new species specimens of the genus Eucalyptus throughout the territory of Galicia is an urgent and vital measure to put a stop to this barbarization of the uses of our soil. At the same time, the Greek Administration will encourage studies to assess the impacts of this tree on the natural habitats and ecosystem services that these spaces provide to society." We continue to say: "Eurgent delimitation of suitable areas and zones prohibited for eucalyptus, due to its characteristics of high-flammability and fueling colonizing species, gradual reduction of eucalyptus in mixed masses, elimination of reforestation of agricultural land and recovery of soils unduly forested with agricultural aptitude." We all know that its expansion is induced and protected by the dictates of the two lobbies of shredding wood since prehistoric times in autonomy. We add the indisputable and unanimous certainty in the reports presented in the Commission on their behaviour in the fires as an accelerating and expansive element, coadjuvant in the water stress of the soils and impoverishing them, illegal occupant of agricultural land and of the best mountain land. Who gives more? The neighboring mountains in the common hand occupy one third of the surface of our mountains, about seven hundred thousand hectares and reveal themselves as an appetite for the production of infrared speculation. The brutal deforestation and the practice of settlement of rural areas in much of the Greek territory bring with it that a good percentage of the neighboring mountains are semi-abandoned or in poor management against others who have a copy of it. It must be said that the mountain communities are civil societies that democratically manage their community lands; they are not commercial societies dedicated to the production and sale of wood. This was the chance of gold to remedy a series of profound injustices regarding this singular figure of a Germanic nature: the forgiveness of false debts, forced investments, seizure/non-incautionation for fifty years. We have made a proposal for the impetus, protection and activation of this unique figure of Germanic property — we have done so, we have followed it — Community. The last hour of the debate in the Commission was a joint counter-proposal of the PP and the PSdeG, with a clear intention of seeking the neighboring mountains to convert them into productive commercial companies in the forest market, exclusively to the service of crushed wood. Groupings with legal personality and commercial character. Our proposal speaks of multifunctionality, biodiversity, sustainability. Maybe in the next intervention we'll stop to explain these three concepts for the kid. Time is scarce and it's above me. It became clear that the fire prevention and extinction service is in need of a thorough remodeling. However, the People's Party and the Socialist Party opt for a team of experts to say what to do with it; a new team on another team to say and dictate on the other team. This option makes it clear that the Council is not willing to do anything. The group of experts does not offer guarantees because there are precedents that their opinions may be disassembled by other countersign experts and holy passages. We propose concrete reforms that would lead the extinction service to a desired homogenization, job stability, agility, speed in detection and first intervention in the focus, homogeneous and specific formation in the fires of a new generation, which, alleluia!, already exist officially. It was such evidence that no other remedy was left. How much time is lost! The alternative saying that BNG proposes is a hope option for this matrix that welcomes us. A modern option -- don't question it -- modern -- and if not, at the same time -- thought from here and here, from us to us, for the benefit of most of this people, that resists losing the reference of earth and nature as a secular root of their existence and their culture. Maybe one day they take all this seriously or maybe not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u11	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u12	Good morning. After the October 2017 fires there was a rare opportunity for the transcendence they had, by their magnitude, especially in Ourense areas and in the areas around Vigo, where in one place and another there were several dead, and also because we all know that the intensity of these fires in relation to climate change and the mountain model that was being imposed in Galicia prefigured the future, after the tragedy of Portugal. And that created a political opportunity to review the failure of the Popular Party's forestry policies in recent years. There is a commission of study, not an investigation commission, despite the thousands of people who had been affected at the time, who today brings him here. And it's an opportunity for the bottom and the shape. In this way, because we received the information from multiple experts that we heard with great interest; some of whom had previously attended newspapers organized by the various parliamentary groups with representatives of the sector, plurality. We would have liked — and so we said at the outset, so we voted against the Commission's agenda — that this was even broader and that other sensibilities had been incorporated, even if the highest political leaders had come. But despite all this, we agreed that there was a broad representation of knowledge and interests that revolve around the mountain, which allows the Commission to be an example of participation. But also from the bottom. The Commission's statement is an example, firstly, in the descriptive part, because many things can be said, but there was a consensus in the Commission that this collected well what had happened in the Commission itself and that was therefore an adequate representation of what had happened there. But also, above all, on the pro-active side, by the hundreds of twenty-ones and so many proposals that come from the Commission's work. It seems to us a great opportunity to change a wrong policy at the root and put in place a policy with much more transversal support, such as forestry policy, which we all agree, at least initially, that it must be a matter of country and where we should make an effort. Of course he has risks, and political risks, but we prefer to be responsible and set ourselves up as an alternative to government based on that responsibility, assuming the risks and assuming that there is a part of the dictate that we do not fully share, but together we seem to be giving such a change to forest policy that is well worth taking that risk. Today we will not vote on the policies carried out in the last ten years — which we will suspend — nor will we demand responsibility for the fires of October — which we did last November, with little success, and we will continue to demand the same responsibility. And we're not going to adjust either the practice or the words of the president of the Galician Union around these fires. We'd keep saying I was wrong and I wasn't telling the citizens the whole truth. We're not taking note of the Galician Union, what we're doing is laying down duties on this Galician Union, and I hope that the different colour Galician joints will come in the future as well. On the other hand, what we are going to do with this dictatorship — and that is why we are going to support it — is to change forest policy. And I'll give seven reasons: First, the politics of these years are thoroughly rectified. A policy of letting do, of laissez fare, where there were rules that then did not apply, must lead to a different policy where instruments are created to verify that those rules are met. Secondly, it highlights government policies from 2005 to 2009, chaired by Emilio Pérez Touriño, at the council of Mr Suárez Canal. It values those policies. And if not, you read what is said in relation to the Land Bank; a Land Bank which, we have discussed here, has been delayed in these years, has been reduced to nothing, and is now not only recovered as a very useful tool, but there is also an express and concrete commitment to providing resources. Or, for example, in relation to the pasture mentioned earlier: there is a commitment to incorporate 225,000 hectares of pasture into forest land in the next ten years. These are concrete policies. The Uxfors are recovered — we're hearing that they don't — but when you read the dictates in detail you'll see that the agricultural and forestry polygons are substantially similar to what the BNG spokesperson said. So there's a recovery of the policies of the government of Emilio Pérez Touriño and the council of Alfredo Suárez Canal that we also want to bring the collation. Thirdly, more than 90 percent of our initial proposals are incorporate into this dictatorship. But more than 80 percent of the proposals from any of the groups we have been present in the Commission are being incorporated. And there's some group that has only been able to vote against eight of the one hundred twenty-three proposals and yet has a completely contrary attitude to dictate. Hard to understand, at least for us. And here are fundamental issues, very relevant issues that have to do with that transformation: from a policy of letting a policy of interventionism -- let's say -- clear, which knows where it has to play. And it has to touch the structures, it has to play in the planning of the territory, it has to play in the creation of professional forestry, it has to play in the creation of ordered mountains, productive mountains, which have to perform different functions: ecological functions, social functions and productive functions; but it has to do all of them. And where, by the way, we give a considerable turn to the regulation of the eucalyptus, so that, for example, they will be established according to their presence in the maximum districts that will force them to reduce, surely, their presence in some areas, among other things. All of this is present in the dictatorship, there is a substantial change in the centre of gravity of forest policies. Fourthly, multiple elements of verification and control of proposed policies are introduced; because they put deadlines, because they put encrypted targets, but also because there are mechanisms of participation that previously did not exist: from the Monte Community Council to district forest councils, which are elements that, by themselves — and here we turn to banal functionalism — will create the function. And when we create participating bodies, we're going to force this to be part of the political agenda every year. In addition, because Parliamentary information commitments are made which will give rise to annual or biannual debates — depending on the cases — which will enable us to know what is going to happen. Fifthly, institutional changes of extreme relevance are established for our understanding. And there is one who may go unnoticed, but which is very important to many of those working in the forest sector, such as, for example, the separation between forest promotion and production and fire-fighting policy, which is in the dictatorship and which must lead to a change in setting the priorities of the Galician Union, ensuring that this promotion policy can be carried out and that it is not vampered by what happens in the fight against fires. Also with the reinforcement of the Land Bank, with its inclusion in a Agader, which will have a substantial weight in the mobilization of land. And also, for example, with the creation of the Council of the Communities of Neighborhoods. And so on. Or with the creation of a 100-percent public entity, dependent on the board of Galicia, in which the municipalities must participate, and which will release these from one of the burdens traditionally complained about: that of having to take care of itself alone and with little help of cleaning the 50-hundred-metre strips that are around the population nucleus and around the isolated dwellings. This will be the object of an agreement between the Galician Union and the municipalities, of the style of the APLU, which will allow them to lose much of that demand. We are not going to approve here today the Forest Plan — the Forest Plan must be the subject of a debate in the future — but if we are going to condition the Forest Plan with which we approve today. These are duties on the Forest Plan that the Galician Union will have to fulfil along with the allegations that are made during this month, and that it will then have to bring here for a later debate, so that we can all check whether this is done or not. And finally, we're also going to take care of — from our perspective, which doesn't have to be the right one, but it's ours — what the technicians told us, what the university professionals told us, what the representatives of the sectoral interests told us, what the green groups told us, etc. All those agents who, with various visions, try to make up a single proposal, we're going to meet all of this from our point of view, but by incorporating it into this dictation. For example, with a much more demanding regulation of the eucalyptus than it had so far, but also sensible, because it did not pose any problem to an important industry that is functioning, but rather leads it to a balance between the needs of wood demand and the need to have a living pile, with many species present, prioritising — as is said in the ditam — the creation of conifers, protecting the pine — which is a species that has a remarkable regression in recent years — and establishing systems for controlling the expansion of the eucalyptus that are important. Also, why don't you say that? —and as I had previously insisted — by creating instruments for the mobilization of land and land groupings of owners that can operate. I'm done. It was an opportunity that we, by responsibility, decided to take advantage of. And we believe that our participation allows us to incorporate a progressive vision into future forest policy, which is equipped with verification and control tools for this to take place. We therefore feel that we should vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u13	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u14	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We begin today with this debate and the vote on the dictatorship, and first of all I would like to express my thanks to all the Members of Parliament who have participated in the Commission, and who, in the best possible way, have put the structural problems, the problems of management, the problems of the public service to defend against forest fires or the problems of ownership and property that we have in our country today, among others. They also thank the House for the work they have done during the duration of it, and all the Members who have participated in it. After seeing a diagnosis of this saying that it reflects quite well what the appearances and the appearances put out in this commission, we do not understand from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea what was the reason why the drafting team was unable to be brave and resolved in drafting recommendations according to the country's merits. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia represents less than six percent of the area of Spain, but in our community 70% of the total forest fires are produced, and 56% of the total area that burns in Spain. The burnt surface number and recurrence in certain areas of the fires in Galicia are not natural. In fact, along with northern Portugal, Galicia is the only European Atlantic region where forest fires are a problem. The forest fires that hit our country year after year have unacceptable costs, because they cost lives, they cost housing, they cost forest heritage, they cost biodiversity; a set of degradation and destruction of our environment that needs effective and persistent actions and policies that avoid mortgageting our future and our identity. The fire in our country is a historic problem, as history is also the lack of addressing this problem. Galicia burns every year, and every few years it does it in a catastrophic and dramatic way. The current government, with the only objective of cutting the bulk and getting out as badly damaged as possible, chose at its own time to throw all the blame on the fires to the "incendiary terrorists", in concrete and abnormal circumstances impossible to control, such as the temperature and moisture failure, which existed on certain October dates last year. It's almost insulting to the population to avoid addressing multiple urgent tasks that contribute to the existence of the problem of forest fires. We can call the depopulation of rural areas, the lack of territorial management, the invasion of non-autochthonous species, rapid and explosive combustion, or the precariousness of forest fire services at present. The argument of incendiary terrorism was an argument used by the Government of the United States in the previous wave of fires, but it was never possible to believe there was some sort of plot or organization in our country. The reality is that three decades later there is no burning plot, and the mountain of our country continues to burn every summer. We are aware of the many factors behind the fires since the prevention and extinction, the management of the territory or the current agricultural policy of Galicia. The expansion of eucalyptus and alloctone species for their use in the paper industry among others, the failure of a prevention policy, the lack of land management or the precariousness of the forest fire fighting device are some of the keys to understanding the situation in Galicia. The need to improve our organizational capacity is evident, unable to address risk and crisis situations today, such as those experienced last year. We need a unified, public, homogeneous emergency and extinction system that prevents the repetition of this drama. We've been late for years in making decisions in this field. And in drafting these recommendations, we lost -- we thought from En Marea -- a golden opportunity. These are in the emergency service and the inability to deal with the situation is not the only problem. The fire in Galicia is structural, and as such it doesn't have an easy solution, nor much less rapid. One of the structural causes of fires is a model of a country supported by the planned extermination of our rural environment. The current design of the country is to throw people out of the countryside, which causes less efficient mountain management and more fire-friendly. People are supposed to leave rural, and other types of actors are investing in money. This is the policy of the current Government, with laws as adopted last year, the Act of Business Initiatives, endorsed by the Law of Predation of Galicia, which promotes the release of the ground, putting the territory at the service of any mining project that is interested in, and which also repeals the right of expropriation based on widespread general interests. The lack of management, the worst forest management — the results of the current Forest Plan — turn our Greek mountains into pure gasoline. It takes self-criticism, as without providing efficient solutions this will continue to go on year after year. The European Commission has allocated over EUR 40 million for adaptation to climate change and risk prevention included in the 2014-2020 RDP. This commission has not been studied if the Board has made an appropriate application or not of these funds. We must also examine the role of the public. In this case, CRTVG failed to meet its objective, incurring a dangerous drop in functions. Its obligation, as a public medium, was to be informing both on television and on radio and on social networks of the state of fires and transmitting to the population the indications of the authorities and the persons responsible for extinction, in order to ensure the safety and survival of the neighborhood in the most affected areas. It is vital to remember the strategic nature of the useful agricultural area in our country and its maintenance, especially the lands of high agricultural capacity, which are scarce and lacking adequate protection today. In tune with the above, advance in forest and forest management, reconciling productive and protective functions, and reconciling individual interests also with social interests. The integration of agricultural and forestry activities, whether with a productive or conservative dimension, will be done with always territorial vision, not as it is reflected in this dictatorship. We must address effectively and decisively the management and management of urban-rural interfaces, especially regarding residential uses and basic infrastructures. The success in this issue depended on an appropriate combination in the application of legislation, as well as on innovative measures to promote these transition spaces as well as empowering communities of neighbouring communities in common. The new forest policy has to stop being just a forest and be a mountain policy. We have been denied the reports we requested from En Marea, which were vital for the better functioning of this commission: data on the implementation of the current Galician Forest Plan; data on the execution of the Pladiga, Infoga, Platerga and Peifoga; reports on the recruitment of public service workers, the hiring of air-extinction devices and public concession contests, the audit of aid granted to municipalities; reports on protection measures, reduction of fire risk in the Galician Forest Plan; reports on the development of fires; and reports of Civil Protection in mobilized, evacuation, etc. The Commission's ruling did not reflect on the recommendation of many of the criticisms that have been named in multiple appearances, such as that the protocols did not work because the Union did not apply them and is not applying them properly; it did not provide enough land personnel and attacks on extinctions; it failed the information to the citizenship of the extreme risk situation. Together she refused to increase the number of guards for agents, after not extending the contracts to Seaga's comrades and colleagues, and the knowledge of the situation that was going to be given that weekend, this staff couldn't begin to work. Environmental agents have been in the fire-enforced adscription until 30 September, and despite this risk situation, the subscription has not been extended and the communication systems have not been reinforced, namely 085, which, of course, has been 40 days of vacations this year, reporting it on their social networks. And, therefore, since Marea, we have observed as atonous amendments of vital importance to add to this dictatorship were rejected by the People's Party. Conclusion: the Commission's ruling does not substantially change the problem of forest fires in our country, so since the Parliamentary Group in Marea we have cast our own votes, so we have asked for their inclusion in this dictatorship. We ask that no more trees be allowed with species of the genus Eucalyptus, no exceptions be made either on the Nature Network or in any area with a protective figure, whether environmental or hydrological. We asked for Uxfor to be recovered as they were drafted at the time, as a joint figure of management, as a figure to be empowered by the Galician Board, and to approve tax measures packages that encourage joint management of the mountain, whatever its legal formula, — well! — whenever none of the partners exceeds 49% of property.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u15	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u16	We also call for these measures to be approved in the German Parliament before the end of last year. We ask that no consideration be given to the use of energy crops for the production of biomass, as well as we call for the empowerment of mountain communities in common, and a plan to revitalize them. And there must be an increase in a plan based on cooperation, dialogue and care and custody, and it must not be based on the recovery of the neighbouring mountains in common in a dictatorship that we have issued from here. For my part, for now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u17	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. After listening very carefully to the speakers from the other parliamentary groups, I have no doubt that we will be able to reach that country agreement that all the representatives and all the parliamentary groups — in addition to the PSdG that has already voted in the Commission — asked us to do so, and we will be able to vote in favour of this opinion of the Commission because everything you have said is gathered in the recommendations. Please, I beg you to take a look at all the parliamentarians who are here today listening, and all that has been said here is gathered in the recommendations. I will begin my intervention, of course, with thanks. First of all, I would like to thank all the Members and Members of the Commission for their work, of the four parliamentary groups, and especially the Commission's leadership for the work it has had, on some difficult occasions. Also to the services of the House; indeed, it was a complicated dictatorship in its formal formation. I would like to make a very special thank-you to the visitors in the Commission as well. Ladies and gentlemen, sixty visitors at sixteen work sessions; that is, in just over two months these visitors were able to provide a very valuable knowledge for the object of this commission. And we have to make a special thank-you to all the authors and scientists of enormous transcendence, the Greeks, who were collected in this dictation with very important contributions. It also, of course, all the bodies and organizations that brought their reports and collected themselves in the dictation. In particular, the Galician Council, which had to collect a lot of reports here; there was also a great coordinating work by the Directorate-General for Institutional and Parliamentary Relations; the Rural Council, both for the reports it brought and for the reports that were made in the Councillor's appearances, the general directors and other staff. And I end by making a very special thanks, ladies and gentlemen, to all the workers of all the collectives of the Galician Fire Prevention and Extinction Service and Emergency Services. Thank you very much for the wonderful work you've done. We have the best Fire Prevention and Extinction Service, of course, in Spain, and one of the best in the world. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a policy — and I will argue with it — plural, multidisciplinary and which deepens the structural causes of fires and proposes solutions beyond extinction. Why do we say it's a plural dictatorship? Look, we have taken into account the arrivals of the visitors that have been proposed by all parliamentary groups. As I said earlier: sixty representatives, of which forty-one — the two thirds — were part of the proposals of the opposition parliamentary groups; and of the fifty-three reports, thirty-two were made on a proposal from the opposition groups. But there were also three general directors with the Bipartite, mayors of all the political parties that are members of the Commission, representation or reports of Members, spoke by the president of the Fegamp, union representatives with different ideological positions — as could not be otherwise —. And it's a plural dictatorship because it incorporates a hundred and twenty-three recommendations voted in favour of the three fourths of this chamber: the People's Party and the Socialist Party. And besides both the Bloc and En Marea voted in favour or abstained from most of the recommendations. There is one party, the Galician Nationalist Block, who voted against only eight recommendations of one hundred seven, eight of one hundred seven! And there we are able to make a speech that dictates it is tremendous, because it has voted against it more! I ask you to support what all the civil society in Greece demands: that country agreement and that we support this dictatorship because it is good for our mountain and our rural society. Secondly, it's a multidisciplinary dictate. We were aware from the very first moment that we had to go far beyond talking about extinction services, we had to talk about fires as a structural problem affecting the Greek countryside. The 60 visitors represented the civil society of Galicia. There were experts in edaphology, forestry or forest production; experts in economic structure; experts, Mr. En Marea, in geography and management of the territory—they were proposed by you and, were right, it was good for the Commission—; different economic sectors related to the mountain; representatives of activities related to the multifunctionality of the mountain—there is a specific section in the recommendations, Mr. Rivas, to the multifunctionality—organisations representing the neighbouring communities of the mountains in common hand—we defend and support on a recommendation the leading role of the neighbouring communities of common seamounts in the Galicia Mountains, is written and posted and published by the Journal of Parliament—and also representatives of comparable trade unions, of course, and related to the Service of Prevention and Extinction of Fires and Emergences—and I think that representatives of prestige and sufficient value—are representatives of the local Autonomous Administration; and the Supreme Prosecutor of Galicia. It's also a dictate that deepens the structural causes of fires and goes beyond the issue of extinction services. We understand that this dictate has to seek or have to reach a country agreement to implement reforms in the medium and long term that affect the structural problems of our mountain and our rural. Because these structural problems, Mr Leicega, are the ones that make it difficult to implement the policies of the Rural Council; those structural problems are the ones that we have to tackle. And we made a special reference to two substantive issues that are sufficiently collected in the diagnosis of the dictation: First of all, the phenomenon of deforestation, which has led to the transformations which have led to the loss of a large number of farmers and livestock in the last sixties. This isn't a question of whether it's the blame of the PP or it's the fault of a political party, it's a common issue for all the developing countries. These farmers and livestockmen, ladies and gentlemen, were the real agents of the land management, and kept them all in practice. The deforestation process brought with it a abandonment of the Greek countryside and a disorderly change of use, a loss of the useful agricultural surface. This is a reality that's there. But it is also that this is aggravated in Galicia, without any doubt — and we all know it, all of us in rural areas — by the structure of the Greek property, with a high minifundism and a fragmentation of the property, and a high degree of ignorance of the rural owners, because we often do not know who owns the plots. These structural difficulties are the ones that try to address the recommendations. One hundred and twenty-three recommendations that have -- Mr. Leicega said, and I agree too -- common features: First, their realization. Home!, I think we should read the Commission's 2006 recommendations to see whether these are concrete or not; they are not mere demonstrations but concrete and practical measures are proposed. Secondly, as Mr Leicega also said, the need for timetables for the implementation of the recommendations. The commitments that are collected are scheduled. And thirdly, and very important to us — this was proposed by En Marea, and it was one of the amendments we accepted, of course — the establishment of parliamentary control mechanisms for the recommendations. The councils concerned will have to come to Parliament and report on the implementation of these recommendations. And I, referring to the content of the dictatorship, would basically collect certain recommendations. First of all, recommendations related to rural planning and land use. Here, what the ditam proposes is an integral planning of the countryside and the uses of rural soil, i.e., a joint and preliminary planning that distributes agricultural, livestock and forestry uses. And that's for functional areas, which could be comarcas or could be forest districts, that's what we'd have to see. That is what we are going to use — one of the recommendations — instruments already regulated in the Territorial Organizational Law. And we also propose — and also the proposal of En Marea, and we accept it within the dictatorship — that the adoption of a new Land Management Act be promoted. The second group of transcendent recommendations in this dictatorship are those related to the property structure. Look: in the view of many of the visitors — not that the People's Party says — one of the biggest problems facing the country is precisely this property structure. Galicia has over eleven million rustic plots belonging to more than 1.6 million catastral holders. That is, we have 28% of Spain's rustic plots, and one in five rustic owners in Spain are Germans. Besides, most of the mountain is in private hands, with which we can affirm that practically the two thirds of the Galician mountain is in small scattered plots and that we don't have on many occasions information from their owners. There were observers who said that less than three percent of the forest land cadastral holders were linked to agricultural activity. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the unknown headlines, there are a large number of plots that we don't know who they belong to; some comparative spoke of between twenty or thirty percent of the total plots. This is the real problem. Many of the measures that rest on the owners cannot be applied because we don't even identify those owners. Here we propose in the statement that Agader, the Galega Rural Development Agency, should become a real agency for the mobilization of productive land, incorporating, of course, the Land Bank, but also seeking intermediation in the sale. We have to mobilize land and productive land. We also have a comprehensive review of the Rustic Catastrophe in this area, and we also have the figure of the agrarian and forest polygons. Recommendation 83, Mr Rivas, read it because, as Mr Leicega said, it takes up the possibility of a common job for this type of forest agricultural polygon. And we say there it has to be Agader who develops this figure. We also have recommendations related to forest planning and management, and here we commit or establish a temporary commitment for forest district management plans to be made in the period 2019-2024. We also call for the impetus of forest certification and the creation of a Galician forest inventory, which is a complaint from the sector, not only from companies but from the sector. Therefore, important recommendations. Recommendations for the prevention and extinction of fires. We here proposed a group of experts because the bottom of the Commission was not just about the extinction service. We understand that starting from the basis that we have a magnificent Fire Extinguishment Service you have to talk about if you can improve your effectiveness. And in that area I propose a group of experts, and I would like to make it clear that six experts are proposed by the parliamentary groups of this Parliament. We're not talking here about whether they're PP experts or opposition group experts, recognized experts and competition. The rest of the recommendations — and I will finish — refer to the professionalization of the forestry sector, which is also a request from the sector; to the promotion of the joint management of the Galician mountain — we will talk about this in the replica shift; to the multifunctionality of the Galician mountain with the forest biodiversity — we do not call it "mosaic" but is collected from the recommendations; to the improvement in the management of the security line around the population nucleus, seeking to push forward the agrarian activity, Mr Rivas — it is collected in recommendation 45—; to the reinforcement of protected spaces; to the empowerment of personnel. Recommendations on education, awareness-raising, awareness-raising... i.e., a total of one hundred and twenty-three very clear and very concrete recommendations. And always with the idea of making proposals that attack the structural causes of fires...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u20	...and act as a mechanism for the dynamization of a living, dynamic and sustainable rural environment. Ladies and gentlemen — and I am finished — in this rural environment you will have to live with ordered and planned mountains with agricultural activity that sustainably produces quality agri-food products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u21	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. Replica round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's a pity of the short time, of the corset that tightens us up. It's not a matter of words, it's a matter of facts. All experts speak of the need for an orderly mountain and an active and dynamic rural as a unique solution. We translate it into mosaic and integral plan of rural reactivation, which you don't talk about. You have 21% of useful agrarian surface on the table. That speaks of the policies of the People's Party over all these years with regard to rural areas, compared with 40%, 40 percent and a percent of the useful agricultural area of any European country, of modern ones. For me this is an irreversible fact. We called upon them to return illegally forested land with their consent and approval. You talked to them about dairy workers and woodworkers. We talked to them about the economic and social delay in the intensification of production, livestock and forestry. Because for you, the accumulation of economic performance is reduced in few hands. For us, it is essential that the economic reactivation of rural areas is at the hands of many, generating employment and usefulness of agricultural and mountain areas. This is different, this can't be written in a saying, under your signature. When you talk about the need for more area in forest production, we talk about forestry — which is absent — biodiversity, multifunctionality and sustainability. They can't pretend from a country with proper forestry practices, because forestry here is residual. Everything here is born and everything burns, for the sake of the soil and the climate and the abandonment. Our forestry is the union of apparently organized disorder, which makes curiously in business, not wealth. It's the misery of what it could be, but it's not, because of the corrupt policies of rural contempt. I think it hurts to speak in these terms, but every time you use that canteen of rural legislation, some, many, that we are from the village, we feel deeply offended by the mockery and the spook. Let's clear up some concepts. Biodiversity. It means reducing the eucalyptus, alternating the tessels by introducing caducifoli with high wood or environmental value. Equipped with a national wealth fund here, preserving the integrity of the territory and slowing down the fires with low fuel tessels. Multifunctionality. It's to make the mountain a territory susceptible to various uses that generate measurable and non-mediumable wealth. It can be measured in cubic metres of wood, kiwi quintes, chestnut ferrates, mushroom baskets, beef canals, sheep and goat in extended range; you can measure in honey boots, bags of medicinal herbs...—I know!—, petroglyphs, chestnuts, chestnuts, mammoths, careers of leisure... Who does that quantify me? Sustainability. They are all those permanent uses in time and space to be delivered to those who will happen to us in excellent conditions of social exploitation. Maybe here's the million of it. Who serves and who must serve the mountain? The whims of two or three that dominate and orient markets to their void and beginning or the whole of the Greek people, sovereign of the means of production, at least in theory? Ladies and gentlemen, in this statement the People's Party is proposing to us, there is no mention of political responsibilities. And there are them, and they're big. They have both in the improvisation and improvisation of what might happen, given the situation and the predictions — and so did — as in the cowardly and silent management with concealment of the wave of fires last October. The collapse of emergencies, the silence of Radio and TV Galega, the absence of extinction personnel, because with extreme risk conditions the campaign was completed and the three-month troops were turned off — a fear—. Nothing of that appears in the dictation, and it should appear, because it was a manifest reality and it was compressed by all the Greeks, one by one and all together. Our rural environment well deserves a chance of life. All of us have the deepest roots there, the most profound roots of feelings, the fundamental grievances. In my generation they all had villages, not now. Believe me, gentlemen, the best management of the territory is not going to be done by employees who move to the countryside every day after they buy what is already being sold at low prices. The best management is for those who live in symbiosis with the medium, know-how, who feel part of that medium, useful in that medium, satisfied with that medium. Ladies and gentlemen, everything is collected in the PP's ruling, nothing is collected in the PP's saying that it is truly profitable. You say we do not vote for only eight measures, eight essential measures. The spine of what has to be a different country, with a different mountain, attractive, sustainable, etc., etc., is not contemplated in your diet. It's in ours. I read them carefully. Ours doesn't have so many pages. We don't need so many words, especially words that are constantly distorted, we don't need so many words to say what we have to say, and what we said in three and a half years of government and that you've devoted yourself to ventilating in very little time. Look at what they're doing with the security tracks. It's been said that they're collapsing the Town Councils, that they're even to their own mayors, that they daren't say,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u24	...they're afraid of what's coming upon them. And you, throwing balloons out, because it's none of the business of Joine, it's not a country problem, it's a problem of the entities, of the local administrations. It's not like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u25	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u26	Again, now to speak on the particular votes. I have to say that we do not want to oppose the whole set of proposals and particular votes. There are initiatives and measures that can be taken. We've already said it on our own commission. Finally, a constructive attitude of all groups would have allowed me to fit in a lot more. For example, it seems to us quite sensible what is proposed in relation to information policy. We believe that the Radiotelevision Commission must have a protocol of action for when fire strikes occur like those that occurred in October 2017. And there are many other things. But we also have to say that most of what is collected in private votes — yes, yes — is in your own saying. [[Murmurs.]] You were talking, for example, about the use of forest biomass and that you shouldn't collect energy crops. But look, it says, "the development of a strategic program for the promotion of forest biomass, which will not include energy crops." That's enough. You were talking, for example, about not including the Natura Network in the expansion of the eucalyptus. But it says, "to maintain the prohibition of planting eucalyptus in areas of Nature and other protected spaces and to maintain the plan to replace existing surfaces that allow it to occur within a period not exceeding ten years." I mean, all these things are already in my diet. So there are many of the observations that appear in the private votes that are already collected, even better. And then there are some issues that concern us and deserve a little discussion. For example, in Marea, there is a lot of emphasis — and it is reasonable — that we should improve the firefighting device. It's a device that works, according to the People's Party, very well; others can be more critical; in any case, it needs to be improved. Just as the level of technical realization at which the Commission was to enter was from our over-the-counter point of view, we proposed a commission of experts. You're suggesting that we decide by private vote what type of helicopters should be purchased for the Fire Extinguishment Service. I feel unable to do so from my knowledge, even from the knowledge of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group. That is why we talked about an expert committee, with parliamentary extraction and where the opposition and the government-supporting group were going to be in balance, and each group, including the BNG, could provide its particular expert. And let's see: something of this must happen when, in the particular vote of En Marea, they speak of an analysis table — by the way, indeterminate. There's an analysis table and an expert committee. The expert committee knows what it is; the analysis table, no. I mean, there must be some problem here that forces us to shake hands with those who professionally have knowledge because for example the type of helicopters to use, which I certainly don't have. And in the case of the BNG, in relation to the neighbouring mountains, there are some apocalyptic things that have nothing to do with this. I mean, neighboring mountains are protected in legislation. The possibility of use by private companies under certain conditions has been since 1989, and by the way, it was producing good results for many neighbouring communities. By the way, the law is basically a law that comes from the Government of Fernando González Laxe — I say so that we all know this too. But it's just that the BNG, who says in his saying things like, "They should never be managed by private people" (the neighboring mountains), then tells us, "in case none of the previous assumptions are possible, they could give in to a private company." Of course, I mean, no, but yes. Well, no, but it's the same thing that says the dictates, because what we're saying is that groups of municipalities should be privileged, close communities should be privileged, communities should be privileged from mountain communities and only in the last case should the private company enter. That's exactly what he says. So there's no real alternative to this that we're proposing here, there's a scenario. Well, each one has its own stage — it seems reasonable — but, in any case, we all know it is. In the regulation of the eucalyptus, I say again: you read what each group proposes and then you'll see how what is in the dictame is at least as demanding, at least as demanding, as it has been proposed since the opposition. In short, we're finishing up. We also want a lot that supports the different functions, multifunctional, that capture investments, so that they may come from the rural itself, but, if not possible, they also come from outside, because it's a lot that needs to create wealth and employment, with joint surface management, all of them. If there's someone who opts for the sophor, who opts for another model, whether they're agricultural polygons, the old uxfor, any other model is worth us too, managed professionally, where there's a mix of species different from the current one that allows the forest industry to work, but also ensuring the ecological functions. And we want communities of living mountains, but we all know that, as a result of social evolution, there are many that are in a state that does not allow the mountain to be managed, and there are degraded mountains, and we have to give those mountains a solution. So at last we believe that they can be managed first with control from the public domain, but, if necessary, also with assignment to some entity, preferably from the rural world, which guarantees its sustainability. We want less fires and more prevention, but we're sure that greater collaboration with the municipalities, as proposed by the Council, will make this possible. Today I am sure that we are closer to these objectives and that is why we will support this dictation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u27	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u28	Thank you, President. Mr. González, you can save your second speaking time, which Mr. Leicega has already done. He told us in the Commission, Mr Leicega, that we had to be more modest from En Marea to talk about changes related to the extinction and forest fire prevention device. I think it was quite clear the interventions of the assistants and the assistants to this committee. You didn't shake your pulse in recommending on forest planning and management, management of forest species, impulse of joint mountain management, forestry, forest development, forest plan or biomass protection range, improvement and knowledge of owner typology, recommendations related to the protection of the natural environment, climate change, education, awareness, fiscal and financial incentives. Of all that you knew. You just couldn't play the Forest Protection Service, because for you, your interventions must not be very clear. I think that during this commission it became clear that there is an atomization and privatization of the service, something that has not been reflected in the dictation that has been drafted, since there is no mention of entities, as can be Natutechnia, which is a private company that operates heliported public brigades from Galician Union. We're not talking about municipal brigades, which are privatized. We're not talking about UME either. It's not about operation Centinela. That is why we see the importance of including points in recommendation 52. And we've come to demand that we end the atomization of the device and the state of abandonment in which the public device is found to prevent and extinguish forest fires. Mr. González, I really think that every time I hear you defending the public service, I've got something on my chest here, because after what they're doing to you, my God! We have right now the forest agents — which I want to take advantage of to send them action from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea — and the environment on strike, on a meaningful strike, which they are doing to bring forward their claims to the passiveness of the Union in order to meet their demands, and here you are handing them back while on the other hand they are not responding to them. By the way, Mr. Leicega, voted against the recommendations against the forest agents and from there one week he met with them to support their claims. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Mr. Fernández Leicega makes gestures of denial]] That's how it was! From In Marea, apart from the public service, we've asked for a lot more. We asked for a map of land use from Galicia developed by comarcas that includes a high agricultural productivity floor catalogue, which serves as the basis for medium- and long-term planning of uses. We call for the creation of a new land use management and crop orientation plan that includes a new strategic plan against illegal reforestation of land and recovery of the useful agricultural area. We ask for the reference, identification and declaration of priority agricultural projects, which will be subject to intensive care, depending on their special agricultural values. We call for the restoration of the damage caused by forest and environmental infringements that affect any kind of soil, especially in agricultural activity. We call for the implementation of a Galician land administration strategy to slow land immobilization through the creation of a new service to support the management of Galician lands and to curb the reforestation of agricultural land, which is now occupying part of our territory, by establishing as a requirement that land which is granted by the Land Bank to landowners or landowners cannot be used for non-agrarian uses; the need for legal changes that limit these uses. We ask to establish a record for plots populated by pyrophytic or flammable species, which serve to compensate for the expense in extinction. Resetting staff levels in public agricultural and forestry research centres, as well as comarcal agricultural offices; we have reference centers, such as the ICAM, Mabegondo, as it can be, Lourizán, which are now 50 percent of their sick staff. We call for the development of Galicia's comarcallization as a basis for economic development. We call for priority to be given to the declaration of public utility of agricultural and forestry activities on other uses. And information: At Marea he asks the Rural Council to report in two parts daily, on his website, all the fires that are taking place in our country. We ask CRTVG to keep constant information to update information on active and controlled outbreaks, open and closed channels of communication, suspended educational centers, etc. And we ask CRTVG to develop specific communication protocols for this type of adverse or dangerous situation for the population when forest fires occur. The vote in favour of this ruling by En Marea will depend only on its vote in favour of the particular votes of this parliamentary group. For our part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u29	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u30	Mr Rodríguez, I really appreciate your offer, but I think this is a debate that is serious enough for all parliamentary groups to have an opportunity to express our position. And if it is true that Mr. Leicega spoke of his inconsistencies and his stagnation, but do you know what's going on? That gives for two shifts the incongruence and the stagnation. Look, we're talking about joint management of the mountain, and we've had an ideological discussion there, because here's all there's ideology, and you know very well what we're talking about, this use of ideology not to vote for a saying that you know perfectly well how to pick up your positions. [[Murmurs.]] Look, when we talk about the joint management of the mountain, it was suggested here that the People's Party has a figure, which is the sulphur, which we believe can be improved in its operation and we collect a series of means to improve it. But in addition to recommendation 12, which you voted against, it says, "Incentive new formulas for the joint management of the mountain, in addition to boosting sulphur, based on any legal figure of a commercial, administrative or association-based nature." Bring your proposals! And besides, let's put them on the table that has to be regulated before June 2019. Where's the suggestion that we don't want any other figures? By the way, the Block voted for tax incentives to these figures to be regulated and voted against them here; a little incongruence, Mr. Rivas. Look, in mosaic plantation, you call it mosaic plantation, and, as Mr. Leicega said, here are, I don't know whether it's better or worse written, but recommendation 28 says, "Found forest biodiversity, by diversifying the uses of the mountain, using financial incentives and public aid packages oriented to the distribution of various uses to the subsidisable surface, favoring the biodiversity of alternativeity and formations — care—, essentially planting of noble wood species and/or fruit, such as deer, chestnut or nut, interspersed in other plantations." Hey! This is mosaic plantation, collected here, collected in a saying that they don't want to vote for pure ideology. They talk about agrarian activities in the protection strips. Also, Mr. Leicega, recommendation 41 says: "Promoting the progressive management of protection strips. It would be a question of developing agricultural activities, vineyards, orchards, fruit trees, livestock pastures, which act as protection areas in the inhabited nuclei." It's all collected don't tell me! They also talk about the eucalyptus. We have a recommendation, at 14, which, as Mr. Leicega also pointed out, clearly collects limitations, even much more intense than those you proposed. With regard to particular votes, I have to say: look, Mr Rodríguez, to ask our parliamentary group — attention, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament — that we vote in favour of a dictatorship in which it is explicitly said that one of the structural causes of the fires is a model of a country supported in the "planned extermination of the rural environment" — they are all exterminators of the rural environment — man!, asking for the vote in favour, is at least risky. By the way, you have no diagnosis of this particular vote. They collect 11 of the 28 amendments. They've got a lot left along the way, because they know they're on the road too. Ask us for the vote in favour! Mr. Rivas didn't ask for it, but in a particular vote he concludes: "There is a clear political responsibility of the PP government, both in neglect and ineptitude in the management of the crisis of the days of the fires of October 2017 as well as in the chaotic situation of the mountain, without compliance with the law in the security fringes and with a Heterogenesis Extinction Service and dismantled fires." Mr. Rivas, is that what you think of the service? Why are you so afraid of a group of recognized prestigious experts and competition appointed by all parliamentary groups in this Parliament? Why does that group of experts say we have a magnificent Fire Extinction Service anyway? Is that the fear they have? [[Murmurs.]] Is that your position? We, Mr. Rodríguez, are open to talking about anything on that committee of experts. In fact, if we take the recommendation and we see everything that was said in the committee, without the appearances being positioned, it is collected in the reports, and I would add what Mr. Leicega said in the report that the expert group should do and which must be approved before the maximum risk season of the year 2019. So we're not talking about a commitment in the air, but we're talking about a commitment that has its temporary positioning. Ladies and gentlemen, in the vote on the motion for a resolution they have accepted, they have done business or have been withdrawn from the opposition groups by more than two thirds of the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, only the En Marea and the Bloc groups voted against 5 of 107 recommendations, 5 of 107 recommendations. I should like to end by calling on the En Marea and the Bloc parliamentary groups to vote in favour of a dictatorship that supports the three fourths of this Parliament and does not vote solely on ideological issues. Because you, who have been in the commission, know that the quality of the visitors and the reports was very high, that the dictame faithfully responds to what has been made manifest in the appearances, that the diagnosis is appropriate to the problem of fires in structural cases, that the recommendations include concrete measures, which are temporarily committed, with parliamentary control and, in addition, the substantial part are supported by you. I ask them what the whole of the visitors have claimed, that we should not forget that they represented the civil society of Galicia: that parliamentary groups should be able to reach a country agreement that solves the structural problem of fires and that once the political debate is removed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u31	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. At the end of this debate, we shall proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting first on document 34408, which corresponds to the individual vote of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. We vote. Vote of the G.P. from the Galego Nationalist Bloc to Ditome of the Special Commission for the Study and Analysis of Forest Policy Reforms, Forest Fire Prevention and the Galician Forest Plan, evaluating the experience accumulated since 2006 and, specifically, the extraordinary wave of fires that recently suffered Galicia in October 2017. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 41; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This particular vote is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u32	We are now voting on document No 34407, which corresponds to the particular vote of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote of the G.P. from In Marea to Ditam of the Special Commission for the Study and Analysis of Forest Policy Reforms, the Prevention of Forest Fires and the Galician Forest Plan, assessing the experience accumulated since 2006 and, specifically, the extraordinary wave of fires recently suffered by Galicia in October 2017. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 41; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This particular vote is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u33	Finally, we voted for the Commission's ruling. We vote. Vote of the Special Commission for the Study and Analysis of Forest Policy Reforms, the Prevention of Forest Fires and the Galician Forest Plan, assessing the experience accumulated since 2006 and, specifically, the extraordinary wave of fires recently suffered by Galicia in October 2017. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes in favour, 20. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u34	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue now with the agenda item. Application for the establishment of an investigation committee, on a proposal from the GGs. PP. in Marea and the Galego Nationalist Block, to determine the causes and manage the political responsibilities in the accident produced last August 12 during the festival The Marisquiño in Vigo, as well as to propose the necessary actions to prevent the loss of these characteristics
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u35	The scheme is similar to the one we had in the Permanent Parliament, and we therefore started with a first round of five minutes each of the proposed groups, in this case the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Pontón, why do you want the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u36	On a point of order, which has to do with precisely the management of the debate, and on the basis of Article 78(2), which says that the Presidency, depending on the transcendence of the debates, can, let us say, regulate the times used. To our group the truth is that it seems that five minutes for the BNG Group and five minutes for the En Marea Group, to talk about a topic as transcendent as is the Marisquin accident, it's really a very rare time. I know the People's Party shares that five minutes is too little time, because it got up in anger when that was the time it was given at the Vigo Town Hall, and so what we ask you is that all groups can have ten minutes for such a transcendent debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. In the history of Parliament this has always been so, yes, always; another thing is that it is more flexible since the Presidency at the time of the debate; but in the history of Parliament it is always marked that in the debates when it is a joint request it corresponds to that time. So now it's up to you, as the first group to propose, for a period of about five minutes, the positioning to defend your proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u38	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Last night of August 12th Vigo experienced a very serious accident, an accident that ended with more than four hundred wounded people, but which could have become a tragedy in terms of human life, by the overthrow of a gateway to the port in the midst of a festival as tumultuous as the Marishin. We understand that the first was the urgent one: to look at the people who suffered this accident, but we also understand that in any advanced country, after such a serious situation, the administrations involved would have as responsibility, firstly and as a priority, to open an investigation to know what happened; secondly, to take all necessary measures to prevent such an accident from happening; and thirdly, to determine the political responsibilities, as a public infrastructure in the middle of an event can be sunk, because that obviously has to be responsible. But something that is so obvious to anyone with ethical and political principles is the object of ridicule by the Board, the Council of Vigo and the Harbour Authority, who, from the first minute, took steps to the shameful spectacle of concealment and throwing the blame on each other and on each other, trying to find a scapegoat, a Turkish head, to blame for the accident; and they tried, in this case, taking the easy target, which was the organizing company. Ladies and gentlemen, if the security of a public facility in the main port of Galicia is going to depend on a private company that organizes a festival, then we have to send to the house the port president, the mayor of Vigo and the president of the board, because it is a lack of respect for the wounded people, the neighborhood of Vigo and the whole population. [[Applause]] And it's intolerable for political leaders to allow themselves to be frivolous, when what they have to do is to look after the public service and to ensure people's safety. For BNG we are faced with some facts that are serious both by the high number of victims as well as by the physical and psychological damage that has occurred, and also by the alarm that this fact has created, which obviously leaves the image and prestige both of Vigo and of Galicia touched. But, in spite of the important gravity of these events, we are witnessing a lamentable spectacle of cross-accusions by the administrations, a bochornasous struggle between López Veiga, as president of the Port of Vigo, Abel Caballero, as mayor of the city, and Fexóo, as president of the Union; all of them without moving a finger to prevent the deterioration of a public infrastructure that collapsed anything more and nothing less when there were hundreds of people on top enjoying a concert. And, of course, this struggle is followed by the clashes and clashes in the management of this public-use harbour space and which makes it clear how far that permanent confrontation, far from being useful to anyone, ends up producing disasters like what we see. That is why, in view of the gravity of this situation, and beyond what the courts do, which have all legitimacy and all our support for them to really determine the legal causes, we believe that the Greek Parliament has a responsibility. And our responsibility is to be sensitive in the face of a matter of great public transcendence, both for the victims and for the whole of Galician society, who deserve to know what happened, who are responsible and who will assume responsibility for the facts that — I insist — are very serious facts. That is why we have hoped since the BNG that the People's Party and the Socialist Party will lift the grip of concealment, rectification and support the creation of this research commission. Because the victims and their families have the right to know what happened, they have the right to a true explanation and not to that cross of absolutely embarrassing accusations that we see in the press, and that the only thing that comes out is that they actually have responsibilities both to the Board and the Harbour Authority, as well as to the Town Hall. And what we believe is that Parliament must serve precisely to give that answer to certain facts — I insist — that we believe that they are very serious. And above all, we have to put all our will to prevent a situation like this from happening again. It would be good news that today had a unanimous agreement of all political forces to create this commission. I don't know if anyone's afraid of a parliament investigating. We think it's the healthiest and, in addition, what would recover some credit from politics after everything we've seen and after the show we've been living over these weeks, and we think it's the best contribution we can make after an accident of these characteristics. In this country, unfortunately, there is a management that repeats accidents after accidents, and it is that the People's Party and the Socialist Party always turn in not wanting to take responsibility and in trying to prevent parliaments from fulfilling their role. Today we want this Parliament, at least, to recover a little from that dignity and we believe that all the wounds of the Marishquine are what they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares Naveira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u40	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, the summary for the citizenship of the incident in Marisquiño is that there has been an impeccable attitude of professionals, an exemplary attitude of citizenship, an administration that has failed professionals and citizenship and a performance of their rulers that is summed up in a lot of confusion and no solution. In fact, it now accounts for one month of the Marisquiño accident in Vigo and during these weeks none of the administrations involved had the initiative to explain what happened and, above all, to make it easy to know why the collapse of the structure caused the accident. We saw, on the other hand, a cross between bad rulers who preferred to create confusion between competing competences in order to circumvent their own responsibility. Greek citizenship in general, and the vigue in particular, has witnessed a childish attitude on the part of our rulers to accuse others, which is explained only in strictly supportive key and defense of particular interests, but not in defense of the common good and in defense of citizenship, ignoring this way that people want answers, firstly, to know what happened, and, secondly, and above all, to prevent it from repeating itself. In the face of this inaction of those responsible for the administrations with competence, our rulers ultimately, In Marea, echoing the citizen initiatives, we dedicated our efforts to urge spaces of reflection and quiet analysis of the event. That space in democracy is the commission of investigation. We have proposed it in the field that it is itself, in the Vigo Council, and we have urged it now also in this House, the seat of Galician sovereignty, because, in our understanding, there are four reasons why they justify it in relation to the Italian field of competence. The first of them, the rules governing the supervision and control of public mass shows, such as The Marisquiño, which is a matter for this Parliament and distributes powers in the field of authorization, supervision, division of responsibilities and sanctions regimes, among others. To begin with, it must be pointed out — as everyone remembers — that no one has inspected the structural security where the event was developed. The lack of a clear attribution of this function alone should challenge the drafting of this flaming text and open a reflection on the convenience of adjusting it to the view of the experience experienced. The division of competence made powers to the Galician inspection board to verify compliance with the security circumstances of competitors. We must address the study of how the Council of Galicia has acted in accordance with its own legislation in this Parliament. If the answer is that you have not done any action or if you have been insufficient to detect the problems caused by the collapse — and in the light of the fact that you do — this may happen to be something within the legality or outside of legality. If it is aside from legality, of course, political and perhaps disciplinary responsibilities must be imposed on the judiciary. And, in case it was legal, we'd have to question what kind of regulation allows these things to happen. The second paragraph which underpins the competence of this Parliament is the regulation of the spaces of harbour uses of Greek interest. It's true that Vigo was of general state interest, but there are 122 ports of general interest in which, especially in the summer, public shows and agglomerations of people are produced and the regulation of which also corresponds to the Galician Union. Can the citizen be calm to know if there's an administration that's watching through these places where they're responding to the call for mass events? Are these spaces safe? We should ask ourselves the question in the light of Parliament's own current legislation. The third function which justifies the study by a committee set up in the Galician Parliament is precisely the appointment of the president of the Harbour Authority as the competence of the Galician Union, in particular the Council of the Sea. We must ask ourselves: has the president of the Harbour Authority properly developed his functions? Should we continue to maintain confidence in López Veiga? Should we trust a person who did not worry — it seems — of a work received by the Free Zone that would have to maintain a textbook of instruction and technical maintenance of the work and of which we know nothing? Can you borrow a bad-state asset? In order to answer any of these questions, it is necessary to investigate, and for that is what this commission should be worth. And the fourth pier: are the emergency law's forecasts working properly? Is Junta capable of asserting that municipal emergency plans are updated and that they really address the potential risk situations to meet the population? Was it the conscious Junta, or should it be, that the Municipal Emergency Plan did not contemplate the Marisquiño festival as a specific risk, even though it gathers thousands of people around it every year? Is it logical that this happens? Is there a need for reflection in the Emergency Act itself to modify this situation? Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament has a duty to investigate to answer these and other questions. It's not enough for a judicial investigation. And here we disagree with the argument offered since the Mayor of Vigo. It's not enough, because criminal investigation only deals with criminal acts, and one thing is that something is a crime and another thing is that something is right. There is a full administrative responsibility and a political responsibility that, if necessary, needs to be debugized. And second, but most importantly, because criminal investigation looks at the past and parliamentary research looks at the future. Because here we not only examine what happened but also make proposals to solve the problems detected, something that by its very nature a judicial investigation cannot do. In another band -- and I'm going to finish it -- we deeply regret the closure of the mayor of Vigo in his refusal to open an investigation commission in the Town Hall, because we understand that the vigues and vigues have the right to know the truth to learn from the success and avoid repeating it in relation to the competence of the Town Hall. That's why we demand municipal autonomy and parliamentary autonomy. We respect and defend that autonomy, we are municipalist tides and nobody wins us in the defense of that municipal power. That is why we have proposed the creation of a commission in the municipality and that it occupies its own sphere of competence and responsibility. And the Town Hall has its own. That is why Parliament exercises solely on the functions I have just proposed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the duty of this House...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u42	...to study the success to prevent history from repeating itself. The street people had exemplary behavior during the Marisquin accident, just like our emergency and health professionals. It's time for these good people of Vigo and Galicia to have politicians up against their citizens. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u43	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. We repeated the debate a few days ago in the Permanent Parliament. And I want to start by framing this debate quantitatively. I want to give the election results of the parties requesting... — yes, yes, it would only be missing! —...this research commission in the Vigo Council — I say because as it was said here that some had to go to the house—: Marea de Vigo, 16.200 votes, 11%, 3 concellers; the Nationalist Block Galego, 6,800 votes, 4.8%, 0 conciliators. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if you have any connection to this request, but in any case they are inexcusable objective data, exactly like other quantitative data that are provided in this Parliament. And, by the way, Mrs. Pontón, you lied clearly, too. The Vigo Town Hall at no time blamed the Marshal's organization for nothing, nothing at all! Therefore, you would agree, that it is so exquisite in the subjects of rigor, that in this case too it has been. He lied brazenly and, if not, tell me when some municipal manager of the Vigo Town Hall accused the organizing company of no responsibility on this subject. It's very good to do what they can't do here either in Vigo or in Madrid, but, in any case, Mrs Pontón, it's appropriate to do it strictly. [[Applause]] This request is a confusing ceremony, without any doubt. I want to remember -- and it's not about going through the unfortunate catastrophes -- accidents in this country, from the explosion of Paramos, in Tui, to the fires of last year, the accident of the Porriño train, all of them dead, and no one asked for any investigation commission. The last committee of inquiry approved in this Parliament was in 2013 on the theme of the merger of Galician savings banks. I would therefore like to see those who claim the role of Parliament as a place of discussion beyond the parliamentary struggles explain this use — in the view of this spokesman — absolutely electoralist of this request. Because I want to remember some things. First of all, Mrs. Pontón, again, no gateway was sunk, a dock or dock sank. And it's not the same. I'm not an architect, I have some partner who is. But it's a gateway above an armed concrete pier, which is what sank. By the way, they partially corrected their request for a commission of inquiry and spoke of a wooden gateway built on iron and concrete stones. It's not true. That's what happens by writing it without being Vigo. Sure, sure, yeah, yeah, you see they don't know him. [[Murmurs.]] The iron and concrete legs hold a platform also of reinforced cement above which there was that wooden gateway. And what went down... I appreciate the architectural and functional contributions in engineering terms. [[Murmurs.]] It's badly written and, of course, for the group that systematically demands rigour. I think they had to think about it. Well, what went down was a spring, it was a spring. It's very different, Mr Bará, it's very different. By the way, that's exactly what he said on Sunday in a radio interview the president of the Galician Union, exactly the same, who spoke of public space, that it's as if he had sunk down a street...; finally, a sort of metaphysical location of reality. Is it that hard to say? Let's see if they can say it! A spring has sunk and therefore a port has sunk. I think it's pretty easy to say. [[Murmurs.]] And I also want to refer to local autonomy. And I want to make reference because we all know that Vigo's issues now and then occupy some debates in this Parliament. It is true that I normally have a certain ease to enter these debates, it is true that I almost never appeal to local autonomy, but it is true that other groups, when talking about Ferrol, Santiago and the Coruña or Pontevedra, do indeed systematically appeal to local autonomy. So it would be good if those who systematically appeal to local autonomy and who say that no opposition can be made to the councils in the Galician Parliament reflect on what they are asking for here. [[Applause]] Because on 12th, on 12th, August 12th, at 23.50 p.m., a serious accident took place, a major accident in Vigo City. And indeed, it collapsed — I insist — a concrete structure that was part of a pier built in the early eighties, which was granted to the nautical Club of Vigo and which remained as a concession to the nautical Club of Vigo even after the action of Open Vigo to the Sea, and which was received by the port of Vigo — I think in 2011 — and became part of the harbour structures. And I want to do exactly what I did in the Permanent Deputy. I would like to congratulate all the bodies and security forces of the State, the Local Police, firefighters, National Police and Civil Guard, Civil Protection, 061, medical emergencies, both in situ and in hospital centres, the organizers' own private security operations, citizen collaboration, taxi drivers, urban buses — who also mobilized to evacuate the population, despite being hours away from the service — and, from then on, the civic attitude of all victims, of all Thursdays, by course, a civic attitude not recognised by this deputy, but even recognized by the health professionals of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, who said that, in fact, this simultaneous arrival of 140 injured people, which was the initial number of those who arrived at the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, was resolved in a very satisfactory way, of course by the work of the professionals, but also by the quietness and civicity of the affected by the Marisquis accident. [[Applause]] And I'll return to the request of the investigation commission. The Marea Group and the Galego Nationalist Block Group systematically point out that they knew the bad state of that pier — I insist — of that ship of reinforced cement, a port structure. I don't know very well why they knew her, what the reports were. I've already asked us in the Permanent Deputy, and the truth is, it's seen that they handle information that they don't handle other administrations. And, nevertheless, it is appropriate to separate the pier from the wooden structures above. In fact, there were 467 people attended both in the CAP, in hospital centers, or in the accident scene, 8 hospitalized, of which the case of the largest stay was seven days. With this I am neither trivializing nor minimizing the importance of the accident, I am only putting it to its proper extent, because I honestly believe that the adjectives that exist in this request for a commission of inquiry are largely exaggerated. And I want to talk very briefly about the role that administrations and others played. And indeed, in the case of the Vigo Council, it validated and inspected the self-protection plan proposed by the organizing company, which was also deposited in the Vigo Port, and in which there is an assessment of the risks and preventive measures of the port facilities, which was accepted by all at a security meeting that took place at the end of July, where the state security forces and bodies and administrations, both the local administration and the port administration, and in which there was apparently no issue or repair of such use. There is also a subject that has appeared in the media and that, of course, I, who am not a jurist, at last, do not understand very well and, of course, reading Galician Shows Act, I do not find, which is the so-called global authorization - let's say - of the Marisqueño. Maybe it's, I don't find it, and I understand -- and from then on, that's what's moved from the Vigo Town Hall -- which authorized what was requested permission, which was the BTT bike download from Castro to the port and the concert itself. In the case of Porto de Vigo, it is an objective fact — and there are the media — that changed its version. He started talking about a structural failure, that same day at 2:00 p.m. he changed his position and already talked about a lack of maintenance on the part of the Town Hall and then he actually, at some point, talked about the responsibility of the organizers of the event. President Feijóo also felt drowsy. I have already spoken in the Permanent Deputies about some of the reasons why we have Members here. I'm not going to repeat them here, but I think we all have in mind when we think about politics and blow it in recent years in this Autonomous Community. And then it was also spoken, by spokespersons of the People's Party, of that most Greek politician, who was there from 12 a.m. to 4 a.m.; of the Self-Government was the sub-delegation of the Union—it is true. And, therefore, I don't think it was a picture, or either the photographic exposure time was very long, it was four and a half hours, which can also be a respectable photographic technique. We've also talked about even more serious issues, which is the production of express reports. I don't know if the People's Party is used to making other things deliberately...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u46	...—ending, Mr President—but the fact is that I think you, who always talk so much about the role and respect due to the officials, should have the same with the officials of the Vigo Council. And in addition, an administration as automated and computerized as the current one knows perfectly well that it makes those reports impossible. And also Marea de Vigo, in the Vigo Town Hall, spoke of a pact between the Town Hall and the Port, spoke of a pact between the People's Party and the Socialist Party. I don't know if they were referring to anything like that of Anguita and Aznar or that of Fraga Iribarne and Beers, which is also possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u48	We shall vote against this request for a committee.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u49	Thank you, Mr. Losada. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u50	Good morning. Thank you, President. The truth is, I want to do two things that are very important. In the thirty minutes that we've been debating, more in the Permanent Deputy, we've already taken the triple mention of the Marisquino than what was said in Vigo, because in Vigo we have a bite, a bite to talk about the Marisquino. [[Applause]] And another important point is that just after this debate the Vice President of the Board will appear, at his own request, to speak of this disaster, with which you do not put all the administrations in the same bag, because there is a great difference between transparency, the exercise of transparency of the board of Galicia and the tools you have to ask, to make inquiries, to listen to the appearances, with the bite — I insist — that we have in the Vigo Council, in which an absolute folder was given to the topic of Marisquino. [[Applause]] If all public officials in all administrations had spoken as the board spoke on this issue, we would not be in this debate today. Because we must remember that this commission of inquiry asks the members of the Socialist Party's government in the Pontevedra Parliament in the Government. By the way, there is no mention here of the President of the Parliament, who has both led to proclaim and to announce the Marshal but now knows nothing — now it's a figure — of that event and doesn't even name that important event for Vigo and that puts Vigo on the map. The answer, moreover, to this committee — I believe — and that you present this request for an inquiry committee is that they do not trust Mr. Abel Caballero. That's normal. No one trusts Mr. Abel Caballero, his ways and his style, especially at this moment, now that he has a responsibility, because the law of public shows—we have laws, the laws guarantee the safety and protection of the citizens and the people who organize the events—gives all responsibility in this case to Mr. Mayor of Vigo, Abel Caballero. And to us, from the People's Party, you know in the People's Parliamentary Group that we don't like to do investigative committees when the subject is under the judiciary, because it's true that there's a parallel judicial investigation and, therefore, we should wait and see what the court and the judge say in this case. But, of course, when you are in a competent administration, when we speak in the Permanent Deputy on this subject, when in the Permanent Deputy the Socialist Party's own spokesman spoke of the municipal sphere, of municipal competence, we look forward to having the full extraordinary of the Marisquiño in Vigo and to being able to do a research commission in Vigo, which is where the responsibilities are to be settled, the municipal technicians, the people who participated in the licence granting this event, to know whether there was a self-protection plan, whether it was limited and controlled. That was really our intention when we voted against in the Permanent Parliament, because we really created and hoped that we could do an investigation commission in Vigo. Folder and bite, that was Mr. Caballero's answer, in addition to the absolute limitation of times to speak of the opposition. Those who distrust their partners must come to Parliament and use those tools that they have at their disposal, which they do not have in Vigo, which they do not have in Vigo Council, to request an investigation commission. Mr. Losada, I hope you don't get as burned and soaked as the concoctor of Security, Mr. Font, in Vigo, because the truth to cover here, wash Mr. Caballero's face, you made a paperboard, you made a paperboard. Why are you hiding, hiding Mr. Caballero? You don't want to talk, you don't want to talk about it and answer with insults, you answer with contempt and you answer with monologues. Because I say one thing: in the very extraordinary he didn't speak, he didn't speak at all, and that very day at night he went to a television set and in front of a camera, without questions and no opposition before and without anyone who could tell him anything, he made an absolute monologue insulting, scorning and making him his own interpretation of what happened in the Navy and what happened in Vigo, with negligence and previous wishes. Because here there may be an absolute neglect and a desire to announce, when it comes to being eloquent, when it comes to being a charlatan — I think Mr. Losada said — but, when there is a sinister, when really a politician has to face, when he has to answer in front of the victims, hides his head and charm. So I wanted to remind myself of the victims, I wanted to send a warm embrace to the victims by the People's Parliamentary Group, because, in addition -- I mean, we've already said it in the Permanent Deputy and you'll talk later to the vice president -- if something worked that day, that tragic night, it was the emergency device and the health device. Thanks to this coordination, thanks to the fact that Junta has put in place her powers properly and has complied with the laws that grant her own administration, we don't have to regret death, and we want to send a tender embrace to all the victims. [[Applause]] We must regret that it is a sinister of these dimensions and of these characteristics what has to reveal the true face of Abel Caballero, the truth of the municipal government: every screen and pantomime. We have said it on many occasions: an absolutely rotten government under, as is the city, absolutely rotten under; every screen and every pantomime. And the truth is, then all the consequences come, and when you have to give explanations, folders and bites. I insist: a mayor who hasn't yet given his face, who hasn't apologized, who hasn't really talked about this subject, who hasn't explained how, when, why, that event was organized, how that concert was done, how the license was given. A mayor to whom the law gives him the full responsibility to do so. And besides, a mayor has to do what he has to do is to guarantee the safety of the people who go to a concert in a public space. That's the first thing you've got to do, don't play the helm; it's that he's more to do the helm and because he's in the previous photos than to guarantee security. This is an absolute demonstration of what Abel Caballero is, an absolute demonstration It's sad that that vanity doesn't allow him to be up to the circumstances, because the truth is that the overthrow of the walk is a metaphor, it's a sad metaphor of the Vigo municipal government. [[Applause]] Just as in a matter of minutes the pier was reduced to waterfalls, in a matter of minutes Abel Caballero was reduced to a talking bust, to a true charlatan, who even his own party recognizes it, to an absolute charlatan; of management, zero; of responsibility, zero; of intention and interest in ensuring the security of the beams, none. Licks, make it shine on top, touch the cat, touch the candy and start dancing. That's the only thing that makes a mayor today who has 467 victims in front of him. [[Applause]] Look, we think we have to investigate. Here the members of the Government of the Socialist Party are those who don't trust the Socialist Party itself. Well, that can give us even some sort of hope. We — I insist — believe that there is an investigation, and, if we are talking about this today and we have this debate on the table today, I insist, because we cannot talk about this in Vigo: we believe that this cannot be allowed. You can't afford it and you can't be an accomplice to a mayor, because the truth is that it's his person, it's his way of ruling and his way of being, and we believe that behind these forms there are all the pre-causes, all the wishes, all the neglects for this tragic sinister. I insist that the function is to guarantee security, which he didn't. I believe that, moreover, for that reason, the vigues who gave him confidence three years ago — you speak of election results three years ago, three years ago, Mr. Losada — are absolutely disappointed with Mr. Caballero, absolutely disappointed, because he is a political coward. In a loyal and courageous city we have an absolutely disloyal and absolutely cowardly mayor. It's just that we don't deserve Vigo to have a mayor like Abel Caballero, because if he refuses to give information, he doesn't answer the questions why he authorized a concert on that ride that wasn't in the right conditions — because he knew he wasn't in the right conditions — he gave the license, he signed the license, he made the self-protection plan, whether he met or not. There are many questions you have to answer to the mayor of Vigo, and there are many differences between how the municipal administration and the Galician Union acted, which has absolutely nothing to hide. And I've already said so in the Permanent Parliament: this Galician Parliament, this People's Parliamentary Group, does not want to circumvent the debate, does not want to circumvent the debate and wants to investigate, and wants the truth; the People's Party wants the truth, because that could have been a real tragedy. So in Vigo there are no control sessions every 15 days to the president, there are no appearances, there is no possibility to ask the monologueist Abel Caballero. He's an absolute monologueist, in the purest style of Maduro; in front of television he does everything; now, in front of the opposition and in front of the victims themselves and the people who were involved and who could even be part of that show, he doesn't talk, he doesn't talk; he's a political coward. So we believe that today that egocentrism, that sovereignty, that vanity are set here in contrast to a city that is humble, a city that is brave, a city that is generous, a city that is demanding, but that wants explanations, and we in this Parliament will not be able to prevent it from investigating and knowing the truth of what happened in Vigo. So we're not going to be quiet, and we have to tell you that opacity and that regime that Abel Caballero does not want it, and so three years ago he could have a support that, absolutely clear today, he doesn't have it. And we want and say, moreover, that Abel Caballero may still be concerned; you feel concerned, you react by insulting, you react by threatening, you always react by speaking to other administrations, with a confrontation that is not the most appropriate when you face such an important responsibility. And so we're not going to give reasons, we're not going to give him reasons to be quiet. So we want transparency, we want you to know the truth, but we don't want circuses, we don't want circuses. And the members of the Socialist Party are asking for the investigation commission is at least quite curious. We want the whole truth, but we don't want circuses, and that will always be the People's Parliamentary Group and the People's Party in Vigo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Replica. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u52	I'm going to start with the intervention shift. In relation to Mr. Losada, who certainly saw him changed and nervous, for I don't know what classes you came to give us today. You've talked a lot about rigour and I've seen what your contribution is today in this debate, which is to embrace the arguments of the People's Party: as most of them have, they're right. Mr. Losada, of course it's a paper and a big contribution you have made to parliamentary democracy. Today's contribution to the PSOE in this Parliament is to wash Abel Caballero's face. The concern of BNG is that the 467 people injured, the entire neighborhood of Vigo and Galicia have the right to know the truth. That's the difference between us and you. And what I think is that if the Government of Vigo believes that he is free from all sin, that he has done absolutely everything well, that there is nothing to hide in relation to what happened in the Marishin accident, because they have to have any kind of fear that an investigation may be done in an institution such as the Parliament of Galicia, because indeed there are responsibilities that are not unique, and here there is much to investigate, not only what the Town Hall did, but the responsibility that the Harbour Authority has, which is curious that the People's Party has deleted from the map the Harbour Authority; surely it is because the responsibility of those who are in front of it is a lord like López Veiga, of course, a distinguished activist from the People's Party, appointed by proposal of Mr. Feijóo, and that he wants to pass as if this matter had nothing to do with him, when I insist: of course, the authorization for him to be held there depends on an authorization that he should also give to the Portugal Authority himself, and that he does not have the authority, as he has to rule, as he has, as he has the authority, as he has said, as he has to rule. We don't think this is a debate to continue on the pim pam pum. I think today the spokesperson for the People's Party came here to repeat to us the intervention he would make in the Vigo Town Hall. Finally, I believe that this is Parliament... and that we are going to do a rigorous analysis of what has happened, which is all the administrations that are involved. [[Murmurs.]] And indeed, the Union as we shall soon see, also has its share of responsibility in all this matter. It is not quite clear — the truth — what will be your position of vote. We keep insisting that today we have to vote on the fact that the people who were there have the right to know what happened, who are responsible, and that this is what makes sense of democratic functioning. We don't think that the fact that there is a judicial investigation interferes with a parliamentary debate at all. There's been an investigation into the Angrois accident, and there's a commission of investigation in the State Parliament. By the way, I think the PSOE finally had to change its position of vote and voted in favour of this commission being constituted. In any case, it seems to me that we are facing a debate in which we all know that when someone says that in Parliament we can't investigate because there's a judicial investigation he knows it's an excuse...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u54	... of poor payers not to assume their responsibilities. We want it to be investigated, we expect it to be investigated today, and if this commission of inquiry goes ahead, go — as the lady of the People's Party said very well — with no bites, no vetoes, and nobody dares to define who can and who can not come in, and that proposals from all groups are reflected, because it will not be that what the People's Party wants is to apply the vetoes and the bites it denounces in the Vigo Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, the investigation of the truth, Mr. Losada, but above all the knowledge of the truth, is a democratic right, which should not be vetoed by minorities, but should therefore be subject to the rule of the majority. In addition, it usually happens that political minorities are the ones who, echoing the majority of society, seek the research of the truth against a number of political majority who think that they have kidnapped the will of the whole, simply because they do not want to listen to what may be awkward to them. We thought, said with all the cordiality, that it's cutre that you come here to say that only the majority have the right to ask for the truth to be investigated. No, no, no, no. This hampers their role, their own and that of their parliamentary group, which are here the third political force. And no one is discussing the legitimacy of asking for the investigation of the truth, and when they do so, many times — not always — we put ourselves on their side, on the side of the investigation of the truth — I mean, when asked by the Socialist Party in this chamber or anywhere else. Look, about the investigation committees, we asked about what goes from legislation to three times the creation of an investigation commission on the crash of Anguilla; we asked for it here. It is not true, therefore, that no more committees of inquiry were requested than this which we now have in the debate. In addition, we have asked for nothing but the support of the European Union, with the support of the Commission independent from the railway sector, which has shown the shame of saying that a truly independent commission had not been made in the Spanish State to investigate the causes of the accident. And we believe that, with good judgment, we have tried on many occasions, and without success, as we have seen, that this could take place here, because it could not take place at that time in other parliaments, the situation which has now fortunately changed. We also asked — and we also spoke of that this morning — a commission of a different nature and nature for the investigation of fires, which seemed to us that it was not a matter of exclusively forest, but that it was a territorial theme, and the composition and a way of doing an independent investigation, with consequences that had another nuance in this Parliament, something that you also denied, together with the People's Party, excluding us even from the Bureau of the Commission. Mrs. Egerique spoke of giving explanations, which will be made here by the Vice-President of the Galician Union. We already asked in August to appear Rueda, for one reason; Rueda, no, the president of the board of Galicia, because it seemed to us insufficient to attend Rueda, because there were more departments involved in this accident. We're talking specifically about the Council of the Sea, and we think who best could bring together all the explanations against that explicit nod because he was the president of the Galician Union. In any case, it seems we're going to a stage where everything you can't meet in Vigo, or at least part of what you can't know in Vigo, we'll be able to meet you here for knowledge and good to do not only of the Vigo citizenship set, but of all Galicia. Let's go back to the question at the beginning: what's a commission of inquiry for? Well, to know the truth. And who can be against knowing the truth and learning from what happened? Following the announcement of the position of the various groups, it seems that it is only pending — and that is why we have been calling again from this rostrum — an investigation commission in Vigo on its own area of municipal competence. The mayor of Vigo is still in time to rectify, because, if not, he will be the only one left alone in a lock position, in a position of immobilisation, in a position not to give in to what is the logic of knowing the truth so that this will not happen again. We could joke that, of course, he's got a tougher face than the reinforced cement. But the reinforced cement we already see is yielding, and the Vigo Town Hall looks like it's not here yet. We don't want that administration to be the only one without the investigation commission either. We'll give them a chance to speak again. And we will also respect the scope of municipal competence within the competence of this Galician Parliament. So we'll do it every time there's obviously a research space in the county itself. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. It is this House's duty to study what happened to prevent history from repeating itself, taking note and learning. Who loves the city of Vigo and who loves Vigo's citizenship should be delighted to know the truth. And who represents Galician citizenship should learn from the success. That's how we do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u57	Thank you, Mr. Villares. After the debate on this request has been completed, we shall proceed to vote on the request to set up this committee of inquiry. Close the doors, please. We vote. Voting of the request to set up an inquiry committee, on a proposal from the GGs. PP of En Marea and the Galego Nationalist Block, to determine the causes and manage the political responsibilities in the accident produced on August 12th during the celebration of the Marisquiño festival in Vigo, as well as to propose the necessary actions to prevent the loss of these characteristics from happening again. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 13; abstentions, 41. The voting is positive. The creation of this committee is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u58	Open the doors, please. We move on to the third point of the agenda, which corresponds to the appearances. Mr. Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice, on his own request, to take account of the events and actions carried out in connection with the accident on 12 August during the celebration of the Marisquiño in Vigo festival, according to all this Law 10/2017, on 27 December, of public shows and recreation activities in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u59	The Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administrations and Justice, Mr Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela, have the floor to make this appearance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed present today on my own request and, logically, on behalf of the Greek Government to take account of the powers, actions and, if they wish, also of the responsibilities, when exercising them, of the Greek Government in connection with the incident of the Marishkiño on 12 August. I would like to say, however, to speak of the competences which corresponded to the Council of Galicia — which we do, without any doubt, with all conviction — on emergency responsibilities — rather than on health emergencies, which was the intervention of the Council of Galicia — and also as the rule promoter of the Law of Public Shows, which, as a bill, entered this House and was adopted — I must remember — without a vote against any of the Members and Members of this House. All previous speakers have done so and, of course, I also want — I insist — to express solidarity with the victims of the accident and their families. It has already been said -- it's a figure, repeatedly, almost known -- that was 467 people injured, several of them serious. Fortunately, they have already abandoned the different hospitals, but unfortunately some of them have been hospitalized for many days. They are, ladies and gentlemen, almost 500 people. And that must be added to all their families, who were directly affected by this accident. Only the wounded — to make a comparative graph — would give to fill six times this Chamber where we are representatives of the Greek sovereignty. As has been said here, your representatives must exercise our powers—of course, the Greek Government does so, for which I am appearing—to put ourselves in their place, to think that they were people, many of them, very young; and many of them certainly went to a concert for the first time with the intention of having a good time. Of course, with no intention of suffering what they and their families had to suffer. We know the result. We hope, especially in the most serious wounds, that the sequelae, even psychological ones, will go beyond time. But I think our duty is to analyze what happened, to try to find out why it happened, regardless of the legal proceedings, of course. The judicial action is there, of course, and we're all going to collaborate. The Galician Council has just informed the judge, on the requirement of the trial itself, of the reinforcement of the personal means that the judge has requested to deal with this evident burden of work as much as he will have for the investigation of the Marishin accident. The judge asked for it and the Galician Board, of course, granted it. And we'll do the same when we determine the experts, the people who should do the proxies, to help their instructions. That also corresponds to the Galician Union, as we did in the most recent case, in the case of Paramos. We'll do it too, of course, as soon as the judge requests it. And in that sense we're in touch with the judge. We are all interested in clarifying the responsibilities that need to be clarified in the trial. We are all interested in giving all the means — our duty as Galician Union — to the judge so that he can do it, and therefore that is the work of the judge. And the judge — as we have said so many times here — what he has to do is work and exercise his work in the most agile way possible, and for that we need the help we are giving him. I insist that we have just communicated, on the basis of the court's requirement, the reinforcement of the personal media. But I think we have to do another kind of debate here, too, a political debate to try to find out what happened, to try to know the political responsibilities and, above all, to try not to happen again. A commission of inquiry was just approved here. Mr. Font said the other day that it seemed like every time something happens, we have to do an investigation commission. Listen, that's like that saying: "No desire, it's not gonna happen." Well, Mr. Font's government partners in the Pontevedra Parliament just said that this investigation commission was done. We didn't want to do any investigation commission in Vigo. Mr. Knight actually allowed 18 minutes. We've taken a lot more between the previous point and this one talking about the Marshal. And, of course, neither the German Government nor, as we have seen, the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia will be no obstacle — but quite the contrary — to this investigation being done in parliamentary headquarters. And for that, logically, the government's performance data is needed, and that's what I've been doing here fulfilling that request for appearance; and whatever the outcome of that vote was, since the request for appearance is registered — as you know — for quite a few days. Ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned at the outset, if we have to speak about the responsibilities of the Government of Galicia, we must speak about the actions which have been carried out, that is, the competences and all the fulfilment of its obligations, in matters of health emergencies, which have been taken over. And I think it has already been said here and it has been recognized, despite some things that were said at first by some political group, which was with an outstanding note, that health professionals themselves were self-redeemed with all the reason of the world. And I think a lot of the victims so wanted to be explicitly recognized and even collected in the media. And also, as I said, as far as it meets the obligations laid down by the Galician Show Law. And here I think there can be little discussion because I think the law there is especially clear. And that's what I'm here to say, because I think it's part of my obligation and responsibility as responsible, in addition to the department that pushed it into the German Government's bosom and turned it into a bill; that then — as I said before — it came to this Parliament and was passed without a vote against, which means that no one objected to what was clearly established there. Entering the emergency part, I have to say that around midnight, specifically at 23:55 p.m. on Sunday 12, the Galician Emergency Attention Center, 112, received a call from a private, received the first communication of the event. It's true that there was another call to other organisms, but what corresponds to the Galician Union was that call to 112 Galician saying that the barandilla of the nautical club had fallen and that there were people in the water. The transcripts are there, that's exactly what was said. From there on, 112 is to activate communications; first of all, given the information that has just been received, with Sasemar Vigo. And then -- and everything in less than two minutes -- is also alerted to medical emergencies, the Civil Guard, Vigo Firefighters, the Harbour Authority and the National Police. And some of them already tell us that they had knowledge and that they had also received calls in that sense. From then on, within the next few hours, it's true, as a medical emergency, in the part that affects us at the Galician Union... the part that according to Vigo's municipal plan it would be appropriate for you to activate, by the way, it has not been activated, or at least there was no coordination. It's not done. Emergency responded well — we all agree — but the Vigo Council agreed to activate the municipal emergency plan so that the steps would be taken through 112. It's not done. And, therefore, there's no other information than the calls that were received in 112. This is about 112, not about 061, because — and I'm going to give the data — I think that the performances were of a quality as the professionals of public health in Galicia do, and they're perfectly detailed. 112 continued, as I said, with its coordination work, once this municipal emergency plan was not activated. We have come to contact almost twenty bodies — in addition to those already mentioned —: psychologists, local police, Coast Guard, Civil Protection, supra-municipal emergency groups of the surrounding area; and even the emergency centers of other autonomous communities that logically called for information because there was someone in those autonomous communities who had been on vacation, who had been in the concert, and who therefore demanded information — both they and the autonomous governments —. I would therefore like to thank — as I did at first — all of you, and it is fair — for the work done by all professionals: Sasemar, 061, health personnel of hospitals, firefighters and emergency personnel of the Vigo Town Council, National Police, Local Police, Civil Guard, Coast Guard, voluntary civil protection associations, other displaced civil protections of nearby municipalities, the own security officers who hired the organizers, transporters — as has been said here —, drivers of public transport services in general and many people in an unfair numbering. If there's anyone left out, I think they know perfectly well what exceptional work they did during that day, an exemplary work and what we all congratulate ourselves on, because emergency care I think it worked properly. Another thing is what would have had to be done so that that attention was not necessary. It was, as far as the Galician Union is concerned, an emergency act of an eminently health nature in our powers. After that warning to 112, and immediately from the knowledge of 061, the first ambulances began to arrive in very little time. And at 2:59 in the morning, the very next day, exactly took place the last transfer. Although it is true that other ambulances remained there until 5:00 in the morning. Specifically, the media that mobilized emergencies were 5 mobile UVIs, 2 teams of the Vigo CAP, 12 basic life support assistance ambulances, 24 support ambulances, 3 logistics support vehicles and 3 Red Cross ambulances. In place of the accident, a 061, 1 medical command post was installed, 1 initial triage point. There was a choice of the victims who came there. It is true that many others went directly to the health centres. But in the most serious cases and for those who went right there in demand for medical assistance, this screening post was installed and an initial qualification was made of people injured according to severity. They were specifically 2 red, 7 yellow, 64 green and 24 tall right there, in the center of choice—97 attended there. And to that we have to add all those that, I say, went directly to the health centers to be cared for. In total, that number of 467 people injured. During the device it must be said that Vigo's health emergencies were at the end nearly a thousand public health professionals as well as the centers to which the different health injuries and injuries came and private hospitals, health professionals who mobilized themselves. And even if they got to add more than 20 additional professionals to what they were already. I speak not only of that day but of the following days. Health expenditure is already known, more than 200 thousand euros. And I announce that the Council of Galicia, of course, will request its characterization in the case in order to clarify the responsibilities — on all the responsibilities that give rise to those who have been responsible for this taking place the corresponding compensations — and also the Board of Galicia, which manages public money, will demand the compensation of these health expenses, as is normal, as is understandable, and in which, I am sure, all of you will agree. At the head of the coordination of this health emergency device, during the entire morning of that day, on the 12th day of the 13th and the following day, they were at the Emergency Service at the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro — where most of the attention was centralized — the Health Counsellor along with the manager of the EOXI de Vigo. And that night he was also the deputy of the Galician board on the ground during the emergency care delivery where the crash took place. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the facts relating to health care, to the health emergency provided by the Council of Galicia. I insist, I think the impeccable attention was probably the one that produced, out of the small miracle that had been, that despite the serious injuries — I think we all have that conviction — fortunately that was not even more serious. I believe that health care, emergency care in general for all the administrations that were there, have contributed to a great extent to this. With regard to the other side to which I wanted to dedicate my intervention, where it is my obligation, it is referred to the Law of Public Shows and therefore to all the procedure which gave rise to the authorization, or not — we now hear Mr. Losada in a statement to me surprising, it is a matter of commenting on it too — but, in principle, to the authorizations that were given and to the controls as well, because those who authorize it were supposed to control that earlier for that spectacle to take place with all guarantees. The Act of Shows — I insist that it was passed here without a vote against — clearly establishes the powers, what must be done, what must be done, and what cannot be done if it is not authorized. This House, as I have said, approved on December 19, 2017 the Law of Public Shows and Recreational Activities of Galicia. It came into force last July 2nd. We were aware that he was introducing news into some things — otherwise, in other things, he was clearly establishing things that were already being observed as mandatory. But as we were aware that it was necessary to carry out a campaign of dissemination in a law of so much social transcendence, we did it. We made it especially in June — before, but we intensified it in June, thinking that it was about to enter into force the law and was also about to start the strong season of public shows throughout Galicia. We made many talks at different points in the territory of Galicia, organized by the Union itself, requested by professional groups; ultimately, at the request of all those who were interested in doing this outreach work and in having a clear knowledge. We have made information available on the website of the General Emergency Directorate, full information on the new regulation, an explanatory power point that we can say has been consulted and has a great interest, logically, especially those responsible and also many municipal technicians, ultimately responsible or at least actors in the process of authorising public shows. Also in collaboration with the Galega Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, we made a model of responsible declaration, which they asked us to clarify what to do so that there was no problem. It was used by different municipalities in the processing of popular festivals and verbenas and also served to advise many private organizers of public events, party commissions, etc. And finally, we opened a query service with an immediate response via email, an e-mail from the General Directorate of Emergency and Internal Affairs to resolve all the doubts. There were a lot of queries, almost a hundred. The ones we thought were most interested in, by repetitive, in presenting cases that were good for knowing each other, we published them. I mean, there's been a moment of a lot of consultations. It's still open. It is true that the number of consultations has declined markedly. We want to think it's, first, because there were very repetitive cases that were clarified and, second, because logically it also dropped the number of events to celebrate as the months of summer advance. But the truth is that this was the first summer vigil of the law and we have to say that, except for the unfortunate event of the Marishin, especially, it happened normally in the vast majority of the territory, which means that we are certain that in the vast majority of cases the public officials and also the party promoters did what they had to do to ensure — that at the end it was — the security of the people who came to the public spectacles. Was that the case with the Marisquin? For, obviously, in view of the documentation that has been provided, of the little documentation that has been provided, and in view of what you know, for example, of what Mr. Losada has just said, it is clear that things have not been done as they had to do. And it won't be, Mr. Losada, ladies, because the law of public shows doesn't clearly establish what needs to be done to make things right and to ensure security. We are certain, ladies and gentlemen, that only compliance with the Act of Shows, only compliance with the guarantees laid down to try to ensure maximum safety, in itself, does not prevent any accident from occurring. Now, of what we are absolutely certain from the German Government, and of what they are — they are sure — they are absolutely safe and secure their lordships, is that this greatly contributes to avoiding these kinds of situations, and that when things get bad, they end up bad. To establish, I say, what is very clear, to come to clarify here — if necessary, what is my obligation — what the Law of public shows says about the authorization of these kinds of shows, and focusing on the Marisquiño, it has to be said that the Act of Shows does is to issue licenses for events that require self-protection plans. The question is, when does a self-protection plan need? Well, according to current regulations, when an event is to be held, a public spectacle, which is held outdoors, which has a attendance of more than 20,000 people or which poses a special risk situation. We're going in here and it turns out not, that the Marisquin was just a trial downhill -- specifically -- and then a concert. That's what you said, Mr. Losada. It was a lot more than that. In any case, Marisquiño's own organizers were aware when they presented their self-protection plan. They didn't register him at the Galician board, but it seems so, with his request both before the Harbour Authority and before the Town Hall. So they were conscious. So far, everything's perfect. It was necessary and it was done. So it had to be something more than what you said in that attempt to... I don't know very well what it was trying to do; I try, of course, to show here that you don't have all the information, that you don't give it to her, or, if you do, you don't mean it here for whatever reason. But it wasn't like that much less. I beg you a bit of rigour, because, of course, if we're talking about a bike ride and a single concert, then we're not talking about it and the Marisquin accident didn't take place at the event of what you're talking about, Mr. Losada. And I mean to you because it's what you defended here the Vigo Town Hall, that in my opinion — and in this case I'm going to try to prove it — is quite indefensible; just with the law in hand, with the law in hand, nothing more than that. We agree that it was a public spectacle, the organizers agree that it was going to bring together more than 20,000 people and therefore require self-protection. And if it requires self-protection, the law is very clear, the Act of Shows also requires license, inexcusably, without any kind of discussion. Who should issue the license after presentation by the self-protection plan organization? Well, it's in section 5 of the Act of Shows, there's not much more to look for. Municipal competences: "Correspond to municipalities to grant licences corresponding to public shows and recreational activities that are developed within the municipal term, including those of an extraordinary nature"; that is to say — for no doubt — any, ordinary, periodic, or extraordinary nature. Do we agree that the Marisquiño festival was a public show? Yes. Do we agree that it was considered as a unit because the self-protection plan referred to everything that was going to be done at the festival? You too. They agree with the organizers, nothing to say in that sense. And, therefore, a single request — at least they proposed it — that includes multiple activities — it consists of the Marisquino — of all kinds: playful, sporty and cultural-musical. In view of all this, it is clear that a self-protection plan is needed, which exceeds more than 20,000 people and has several activities. Therefore, since it is necessary to license because there was a self-protection plan, Article 5 clearly states that who has to give the license is the municipality where the public spectacle develops. How do you have to give it to her? For "once issued" — and I continue to read the law — "the necessary reports which determine and ensure that the applicable legislation is being complied with". So by making a small summary of things that I think are understood perfectly, a self-protection plan, so license, license from the municipality, that the council grant once, examined reports and made timely checks, it checks that the show can be celebrated. Turning back to the passive prayer, if the Council had found — the necessary checks were made — that there was some kind of circumstance that would determine the impossibility — because security is not guaranteed — that the Marisquiño, in this case, would have been celebrated, because it would have been the Council that could have prevented it. This is very clear with the law in hand. What are those reports? I return to the Act of Shows — I insist that we should not go anywhere else, we try to be a clarifying law in that sense. Article 7 (technical and safety conditions in public shows) states that all public shows must comply with regulatory rules in the following areas: safety for artists, public, technical and third parties, structure and operation of installations, electrical facilities, fire prevention and protection, health and sound hygiene, protection of urban environment and cultural and natural heritage, and, if necessary, accessibility and removal of barriers and self-protection plan. I'm left with "self-protection plan" and "solidity of the structures and operation of the installations." Everything is important, but, of course, what we're talking about is absolutely fundamental. Is the law clear in this regard? I think it's very clear. Is the distribution of skills clear? It's clear, too. Is it clear that, if all this is not done, the license cannot be given and therefore the show is not celebrated? You too. Did you do these checks? That's the big question, that's the big question. In case it wasn't clear, another article of the Public Shows Act says that the powers of inspection and control correspond to the municipalities. I'm saying it if you're with you later, or any of those who intervene, there's some kind of discussion. There are several articles that point it out, because in addition, this was in some sense — not in some sense — an important novelty. All of this regardless of permissions, and I think we have to talk about it here too. Mr. Villares said we didn't want to talk. I come here to talk exactly about what the law says about public shows, which is the one it says as if it should be authorized, and with what checks, a show. And he says it's the county after checking with the necessary technical reports, and on the ground if necessary, that the security conditions are given. It is true that there was previously an application for authorization from the Harbour Authority. Well, as the owner of the land, the Harbour Authority — that's what we're looking for, and we need to talk about it documented here; at least I'm trying to -- saw whether the self-protection plan was integrated into the general self-protection plan and granted an authorization that said exactly: "...no prejudice to obtaining the licenses necessary for the activity to be actually carried out." That's what the Harbour Authority says. Therefore, the procedure is not only complying with state legislation — which I am sure was done by the Harbour Authority — but also what the Act of Shows says, which says who has to authorize is the municipality, it is municipal jurisdiction. And, therefore, the authorization given by the Harbour Authority... and I don't come here to say anything else. I insist that I think it's not the object of this appearance but to clarify what the Law says about public shows, and who can authorize whether or not the show is done. And who could authorize whether it was done or not the Marisquino was the one with the competition, which was the Town Hall. So this is what the law says. And now we're going to see what actually happened. I believe that, in order to complete the perspective of the Galician Union — it is not opinion, it is the exercise of powers as advocates of the law — it is necessary to see the documentation that was presented and to see whether it actually did or did not proceed to hold the show. You know that the municipal group of the People's Party asked — as soon as possible, and there should not be too much trouble, given the accident that has occurred — all the documentation, all the documentation, ultimately, that gave rise to the authorization and how the Marisquin celebration took place. There was a ten-day silence. After that silence, what the Town Hall provided was the prior authorization of the Harbour Authority for the transfer of everything to the Town Hall and the Town Hall had made the checks. Now, the Town Hall checks, not the first one. That's what happened. Of course, logically, that was at least strange. There were threats of complaints if the documentation was not presented, and so it was, the Town Hall finally provided some more documentation; some, I say, and nothing else. And indeed — Mr. Losada is right — it seems to be a great surprise that there was no Marisquino, there was some isolated activity and therefore, as they were isolated activities it seemed that there was no need to do any sort of check. The only thing in the file, at least what we know, is a temporary authorization for the occupation of the public highway — by the Town Hall, I say. That can never replace a municipal license; in no case, in the opinion of the Galician Union. Of course there are no reports of those who were supposed to issue municipal technicians. It is true that there is a report from the engineer who goes in the afternoon that they are mounting -- the security engineer -- and what you are saying is that, made the visual check of the area, no anomalies are observed -- seems to be the word in the assembly process of the installations being mounted. That's all that's been done. Of course, neither the safety of structures nor reports to ensure the safety of artists, public, personnel and technicians — and I read what the law requires — nor the structures and functioning of installations or electrical installations. You can't find a single reference, a minimal reference, to the strength of the infrastructure where the show is going to take place or to the fulfilment of the rest of the regulations, which you were looking for was the safety of people who would soon be enjoying, or at least trying to enjoy that show. The authorization is treated as if it were the authorization of a party commission of a neighboring association. That's what there is, that's what we have to say, because of course... If there's any other documentation, we don't know her. I hope there's another documentation, because just thinking that authorization was given in those conditions... well, I think the consequences and what we can all be facing is pretty obvious. It is indicated in that documentation that we know there is an obligation to submit another documentation, which is not approaching at any time. Of course, the day of the concert wasn't there. We're talking about a previous authorization that was granted for the celebration of the event, we assume in another year. He won't make it, either. I mean, there's no security report, there's no check that said "this is what you want to do and you can do this place." The organizers present their own self-protection plan. And who should authorize, go and check if that authorization can actually be done is absolutely clear. We don't give up responsibilities. Of course, I don't come here because the law doesn't. The law says exactly what to do. And so you'll have to check if you've done what you had to do. And the conclusion, of course, from what I'm saying, is that, frankly, no. And, of course, the powers and obligations are clear, in my opinion, with the law in hand. I insist that you have just been approved, driven by your government partners in many municipalities, also in the MP, a parliamentary commission of inquiry. I suppose all of this will be seen, but my obligation, on behalf of the Government of the Council of Galicia, is to say what the law says we push; that is, what there is in virtue and in the light of the documents they have provided. We already know what happened after, we already know that in 18 minutes everything was ventilated, it was already seen that, despite not providing a single report, not a single check, despite not giving any explanation about whether or not they were going to look at the structures, about whether it was checked on the ground whether it could be done or not could be done, about whether it was controlled or not controlled — of course, over all those things we know absolutely nothing at all — the Vigo Council in 18 minutes tried to get all this ventilated. And now this Parliament has decided what it has just decided. I simply, as a member of the Government, as a promoter of the Act of Shows, what I have to say is that during this summer many parties were held in Galicia. We're a country of many parties. A lot of people — and especially professionals who told us that it was necessary to regulate all this so that it would be clarified — even said in some cases that it was being particularly strict. I think later, unfortunately, the facts gave us the reason that this particular rigor was necessary, another thing is that it had been fulfilled as it had to be fulfilled and another thing is the responsibilities that come from all this. I believe that, first of all, for all 467 people, men and women, many of them very young, who were injured, by their families, by so many mayors and mayors and political officials who, at best — Mr. Losada, I know you won't like anything, but I will say again, because it was you who defended him here — they don't go up to the stage at the beginning of each concert, they don't get the microphone, they don't do the tunnel workers, but they've done all the work they've had to do before, and they know that this show about which they're not going to be on stage to do the tunnelers who will sing can be held because the checks have been made — here indicates no — I think all those who do the right things deserve, first, that the Greek Government is here saying how things were supposed to be done and, second, that it is known at the judicial headquarters, that they have, of course, their competences, has the last word, without any doubt. And at parliamentary headquarters, after this parliamentary agreement that promoted its partners, also that we also know politically what happened; above all, to try not to happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u61	Thank you very much, Vice President. We started the round of parliamentary groups. You have the floor, first by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u62	Good morning. Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Rueda, this attendance is late, it's late because we're talking about an accident that happened on August 12, and we understand that an extraordinary situation like the one lived in the port of Vigo deserved an extraordinary response from the Government, and in addition to the highest level. And that's why the BNG and the Marea are calling for the celebration of an extraordinary full and the presence of the president of the Union. You have had the opportunity to pass that extraordinary plenary and give the appropriate explanations, and not wait for this plenary. It comes late and is also an absolutely partial and partisan explanation. You do here as a hooligan of the People's Party, in addition to Mrs. Egerique's intervention, which is that, if you speak a little earlier, you would have chosen the People's Party candidate in Vigo. Because the truth is, he put all his enthusiasm here talking like he was in the middle of the Vigo Town Hall. But, well, you picked a candidate yesterday, so you don't have a lot of opportunities. Of course, we thought you didn't come here to account because you were very busy, you were busy making provincial president of the People's Party, doing your political work for your great goal for the coming year, which we already know what it is, which is to recover that institution that seems to be able only to rule the People's Party. Well, then we'll get more into it. I wanted to make it clear again — we did it in public statements shortly after the disaster — the desire for full recovery of all the people affected, especially the psychological sequels, which are the most difficult to cure. And in that sense it is important to put all means, to be on your side by all administrations, and to set an example. It's also very important to set an example. We also want to make a public recognition — we have done so, but we have repeated it here — of the excellent work done by the safety, emergency and health professionals, and of course of the many people who have collaborated in the rescue of the victims and who have helped to avoid more tragic consequences. We think — and we reiterate — that the administrations, the place, the Galician and the state must be in touch with all these people, they must set an example of cooperation, loyalty and joint work to clarify what has happened. It's the least these 467 people deserve to get hurt. And all the others who were there and the whole of Galician society deserve respect, they deserve to know the truth, they deserve to end this lamentable spectacle that the People's Party and the Socialist Party have, once and for all, that they have to get out of that mud in which they are put in Vigo, which is part of this permanent partisan struggle for a multitude of subjects. Any topic would be worth taking the bait to the head, to the battle, to try to take advantage of party and political. This confrontation, of course, harms Vigo. And in this sense I would also like to make it clear that we're going to talk here about Vigo every time it takes and bothers anyone who bothers. Because we are Members and Representatives of Vigo, with more or less thousands of votes but with the same legitimacy, with the same authority, with the same right and with the same obligation to speak and defend matters that have to do with Vigo; therefore, no one will be silent on that. [[Applause]] And that confrontation harms Vigo because it paralyzes projects, punishes people. And now it turns out that, too, this confrontation, that inability to dialogue — which also put Mr. Vice-President of the Union here — is also putting people's lives at risk, as we saw in the case of the Marisquiño festival. That is why we have promoted and promoted this research, that study, that commission that has been approved here today — although we have to recognise that the People's Party has little enthusiasm for it. But it is there and we will do everything possible to get to know everything that has happened and to demand all the responsibilities and reach the last consequences. You said, Mr Rueda, this is a political debate. And we want to focus that political debate on what happened and also on learning what happened to prevent it from happening again in the future. But we have to look everywhere and we have seen you here -- and that's why I said it was a partial and partisan intervention -- an obsession and a fixation for attacking the Vigo Council, which we understand you have responsibility in this matter. But he looked elsewhere in the case of the responsibilities of the Harbour Authority and also of Galician Union itself. He looked the other way. You've dedicated yourself here exclusively to the Vigo Town Hall. And I will no longer tell you what responsibility you have in appointing the president of the Harbour Authority, which was proposed by the Government of the United States. And I will no longer speak of the role that systematically occupies the presidency of the Harbour Authority as a political platform, as a prize to senior leaders of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. Because that's where Abel Caballero passed, Corina Porro passed, López Chaves passed, and now there's López Vega. So something has to do with that, too. And, of course, we need to talk not only about the show, about the show law. We must also talk about the place and why that place was in those conditions. And I am not going to enter the debate — which I think is absolutely useless — whether it was a walk or whether it was a dock. It's a public space, a public-use space, which administrations, all administrations, have the responsibility to have in perfect conditions of use, of structure and superstructure, of which it is below and above. Everything is the responsibility of the administrations, in this case of the Harbour Authority and the Port of Vigo. You talked nothing about the absolutely central cause of that sinister, which was the state of that structure, the state of that gateway, that walk, that dock, they call it what they call it. That's a central issue, and there he has direct responsibilities to the Harbour Authority. You've gone over points on this issue. We want you to talk about this, and if in your search for documentation, they've also looked for the documentation in this regard. Because it is clear that there has been an agreement, it is clear that this agreement obliges the Vigo Town Hall to preserve and maintain that space; that, by the way, it is ten or twenty metres from the seat of the Galician Union in Vigo, it is not in the extraradiation, it is in an absolutely central area and it is a window in the city through which the transatlantics also arrive, through which many people pass daily, and everyone must watch for its conservation. The maintenance in this case is the Vigo Town Hall, but the structure that sank and collapsed is owned by the Harbour Authority. Then they must also take care of the responsibilities of the Harbour Authority in this matter. Of course, we also have to talk about the event that was organized there, logically, and the responsibilities that are also on both sides, or on the three sides, by the Harbour Authority, by the Town Hall and by the Board. Because the Harbour Authority is not only limited to assigning a land, it is also responsible for the state of that land that gives. And the Harbour Authority, the Town Hall and the organization are responsible for using that walk, dock or gateway, or whatever they call it, to put hundreds of people in a concert. Because when a space gives up, it also gives up responsibility for the use of that space and guarantees that that space is in good condition. Of course, in the organization of the event, we have made it clear that the ultimate responsibility is the organization of the event and the Vigo Town Hall. Because, let's see, let's talk straight. This is an international projection festival that is funded with 800,000 euros from the Deputy of Pontevedra and the Vigo Council. And in practice, everyone we know about the organization of events and shows knows that even the smallest detail is decided jointly between the organization of the festival and the municipality. This is how the spaces that will be used, when it's going to be, as it will be, who will present it, where the scenarios will be put, where they're going to be put... all of this has to be decided, and it's a great international event so that, according to the organization, more than 160,000 people have passed. So there are responsibilities. And there are responsibilities of the Board in the register of the Self-Protection Plan, in the Act of Shows. Look, Mr. Rueda, you assume here that the Shows Act has been passed without a vote against, but we do not vote in favour because we miss a lot of issues that are now being seen in practice. And it's not a very good start for the Law of Shows that in its first month it has a catastrophe like this that happened. Something is also failing in the application of the Act of Shows. We miss it at the moment — and we have already denounced it here — the appearance of up to 23 groups. We ask them to come before the motion to improve this law, and you voted against arguing that it would delay the process of the law, when a six-month deadline was set for its entry into force. This law has a lot of ambiguities, it has a lot of shortcomings, it has a lot of voids that are becoming manifest right now with this debate about The Marshal. The catalogue is pending. It's waiting for the Show Commission to come into operation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u64	...that he has a lot of work ahead of him about this disaster, as he just checked out. So I'm done telling you that they have a lot of work ahead of them, that they have to set up action protocols in terms of organization and security. They must, of course, improve institutional cooperation from loyalty and respect between administrations and have to give a different example to what they have been giving so far, both the Union and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u66	...such as the Vigo Town Hall and the Harbour Authority, for the sake of everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor by the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Bará, I never spoke of legitimacy. All legitimacy was missing. I'm telling you that if you misread me, I've only spoken of votes. The truth is that the meaning of the People's Party's vote in the previous Permanent Deputy, against the proposal of En Marea and the Nationalist Block Galego, and today's vote in the ordinary plenary, shows what was the fundamental question: that the President of the Board would not appear. I don't know why they're so surprised that Vigo's mayor doesn't show up. Of course! [[Applause]] It's just that I don't understand that tearing up the clothes because it doesn't look like the mayor of Vigo, when we all know that the president of the board doesn't especially characterize himself because he appears on too many occasions, especially at the request of the opposition. Now I'm not a spokesperson for the parliamentary group, but I remember when I was, and at the Speaker's Board, at last, we all live it. So that was the goal, it's good to know; I think it's good to know. Mr. Rueda, at no time did I say that the Marisquin was just a downhill in BTT -- something all over the world I understand, although I'm not an expert -- and a series of concerts. No, what I said was that those two events that took place in the whole of the Navy were those that occupied municipal spaces for different reasons and that were, therefore, the ones that were reviewed from the county. [[Mr. Rueda Valenzuela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And that's the information. No, no, to see... finally, I am sure that Mr. Pazos — who will soon have a shift — will need us perfectly with the development of the Marisqueño. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And since Mr. Feijóo didn't show up, but, yes, he gave an extensive interview on a radio station on Sunday, I want to first appoint five relevant questions in connection with this interview and with this non-appearance of Mr. Feijóo. I'm not at all disdaining yours, Mr. Rueda, you don't understand it that way. First question. I think it would be nice if you reminded the president of the board that this unfortunate accident is investigating in the judicial field. I say this because in the entire interview the president of the Board was unable, at no time, to refer to that judicial investigation, in which, by the way, I imagine that all the administrations involved — the local, the Vigo Town Hall, the Harbour Authority of Vigo and the Galician Board — will respond properly to the demands of the teaching judge. So this is the first question I think it's relevant to say. The second one. I've said that in the previous intervention, words are important because what's called exists and what's not meant to exist. A pier went down, not just a public space. So the truth is, the interview I think would be a good example for a good practical class of journalism. A public space has not sank as if it had sunk down a street. It would be as if a street had sunk, but it didn't sink down a street, it sank a pier that was built in the early 1980s. By the way — third question — a dock that appears published in the Official State Gazette in 2015, in which the Port Uses Plan, such as nautical-sport use, is published absolutely outside of what is the port-city connection zone and therefore absolutely outside of the Watch — by any means — of the Town Council. The fourth question. This dock was not part of the Open Vigo project at sea. As much as you repeat a lie a thousand times, it wasn't part of it. The truth is, they've stopped saying it. They started saying it very vehemently and stopped saying it. The architect himself — by the way, very critical of the subsequent evolution of the Open Vigo to the Sea project — stated that he had done what he had done to aesthetically decentrate that dock and put on a wooden gateway. And the last question, by the way, is the most surprising. I don't know exactly why they abstained today and didn't vote against it, because the result of the Research Committee in this Parliament has already been expressed by the President of the Galician Council on Sunday. In the last question he said the last person responsible for the Marisquiño accident was—textually— "the Mayor of Vigo." For then we would avoid, at last, all this mis-en-scene, which is very good, but at last I think that Mr. President of the Board should be a little more prudent — as we say in some way. Questions — leaving aside this type of interview — that have to do with the objective fact and the role that different administrations played. The first question, I repeat again, then it was attenuated, but in an initial phase it was machaconically manifested from the surroundings of the Galician Union about it was exactly what had happened. For what has happened was the collapse of a piloted concrete structure — that applies to the People's Party, or to some leaders of the People's Party, and also to some responsible groups of this Parliament. No wooden structure has fallen. Obviously, the structure of the wood fell because it was placed on top of what actually collapsed or fell. I repeat again, it is a work of the year 1981-1982 that was also awarded to the Boat Club, and the people who lived in Vigo at the beginning of the 1990s know that it was used as a parking lot for members of the Boat Club. The second question — and in this entirely agreeing with you, I said it already in the Permanent Deputies and in the previous intervention — is the Socialist Group, the Socialist Municipal Group sure that, too, and the whole party, we are extremely pleased with how everything that has to do with emergencies has worked, both those that depend on the Council and those that depend on the Council of Galicia, and so we express it, in addition, I believe that in a clear, active and passive manner. The truth is, I do not understand much when, on the one hand, the mayor is said to be silent; on the other hand, it is said that he is responsible for the organizing company of the Marisquiño; on the other hand... is he silent or is he not silent?, do you understand, does he not appear?, does he explain or does he not explain? I -- I repeat again -- listening to President Feijó's explanations on many relevant issues -- I don't want to talk about deaths, we should probably all be more cautious. The fourth question, the judicial dimension. I am not a lawyer, but, in any case, I understand that the correct application of the Law of Public Shows will have to rule a judge, that that is his fundamental role. Fifth question. The Town Hall actually validates and inspects the self-protection plan, which also has port. At first, he came to say also the People's Party at the local level that the port had no self-protection plan. Then, of course, once the company left, saying that they do, that we recorded it... actually had it. And in that plan, a risk assessment document is collected and preventive measures are taken from port facilities. Does the port really have nothing to say about assessing risks and preventive measures of port facilities? I'm very surprised at some of the statements you make, because, beyond the issues of timely maintenance, I understand that Porto has to guarantee these facilities. And then there's a concept of trust between administrations. I mean, if Port says that in an installation your administration can develop an event in this case, because the reasonable thing is that it's being watched. By the way, there's a new contradiction here, because then other groups show to have information about the bad maintenance situation in these facilities. The truth is it seems that everyone knew, but in the end the event advanced. At the security meeting, at the end of June, you know that no one has manifested himself for the celebration of the Marines exactly in the places where the 18 editions were held, because it began in Mount Castro, but of course, the last editions. You will also remember that at one time they used the argument that this self-protection plan had not been registered in the Emergency Directorate. Indeed, it had not been registered, but Galician Festives' own business association objected by saying that it was not necessary to register in the Emergency Register.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u70	In any case, you and the business association will have to agree. And finally, of course, the change in the positions of the port and its president as to the responsibilities is, at least, surprising. And here you are, here the president of the Harbour Authority of Vigo has responsible for the organizing company of the unfortunate accident. The mayor of Vigo never, I want to insist on that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u72	...because, Mr President, if you don't feel like you're putting the focus where you shouldn't be. And as for the information provided by the Vigo Council, in the second round, I'm going to read literally what has been supplied...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. You have a second shift later...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u74	...that I understand it's the file.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u75	... where you can supplement the information.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u76	...and if not, the judge will say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Villares Naveira has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u78	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Vice President, don't hurt us, but your appearance disappoints you. It disappoints not for you, it disappoints you because a few weeks ago Feijóo was missing time to say that he felt overwhelmed by the event and that he expected plausible explanations of everything that happened. Right, we also want explanations, but the performance of the Government of Wales with competences in this matter, both a priori and a posteriori, does not restrict itself solely and exclusively to its department, has several fronts, and you have only seen to account for one of them, as it is logical, within your negotiation. Yes, we understand that incompletely, as we will now prove. The fact is that the competence of the Council of Galicia also extends to the appointment and termination of the president of the Harbour Authority, which you obviously omit because it is not part of your powers. For we understand that in this case this complicit silence of the Board cannot continue, and therefore we ask the adviser to appear on this situation. We have asked — and we have already done so in August — for Núñez Feijóo to appear, because the normal thing was that Feijóo — the buried one — explained all the performances of his different departments, and that can only be done by the head that directs all those departments, as is the President of the Council of Galicia himself, and that he does it in the Parliamentary Chamber, not in a media, where there is no right of reply or a right that others can interact with the President, nothing but hear him speaking to. I guess that's what happens to them sometimes, that they prefer not to talk and not listen to what others have to say to them. We understand — part of the fact that López Veiga's role is particularly controversial and also deserved an explanation by the President of the Galician Union on whether or not he has confidence in it — that it is an inexplicable role of behaviour and that, in our opinion, it is the most extravagant that has been produced during this season. Getting into the background of your appearance, we want to start by highlighting the exemplary behavior of citizenship and emergency services. They seem to give us a complete example and are above some administrations and rulers that have been installed for these weeks in incomprehensible infantilism, with mutual complaints, rather than looking for solutions to the problems that we have on the table right now. They had to learn, all those who had responsibilities in managing the accident, looking for solutions, and not looking for obstacles to access them. So our congratulations to emergency services — as we did from the very first moment — are extended to the relationship that you have made. Now, the intervention of the Galician Council and its department has not been restricted to this one option, and we want to realize what seems important to us. Firstly, we understand that there is some silence on these explanations, beginning with the obligation to inspect the structure itself. If something becomes clear so far, it is that no one has been able to review the state of a structure designed to support a specific weight, a structure that had a specific capacity. The theme in theory is easy, because if capacity is one and weight is another, it's a matter of simple math to know whether or not it can be authorized, and under what conditions it can be done. It's almost mathematics, but to get the math accounts out, it's necessary for someone to do their homework. Who had to do it? That's the question you need to answer with the Act of Hand Shows. If you were a promoter of the Act of Shows, the answer should be clear. You refer to Article 6, although there are doubts in our opinion, and you will have the opportunity to clarify them in the replica shift. If in Article 6 everything is entrusted, as far as its inspection is concerned, to the municipal authority or there are other authorities that are also involved in verifying compliance with those conditions. And I'll explain right away why. We understand that the simple doubts about this precept call into question all the systematic drafting of content and attribution of responsibilities in relation to the authorization regime of public shows, as we have made manifest before the processing of the law itself. We believe that these doubts and this controversy are already calling into question the norm itself and therefore suggest the need for a reflection to which we will also refer at its own time in the Committee of Inquiry. You explained — we certainly understand — that activity required a municipal license if a self-protection plan was needed. All of this according to the estimated public and expected support; according to the document delivered by the organizers, between 40,000 and 50,000 people. The plan was mandatory because it was for the whole Marisquino, although the concrete outflow of some separate activities did not have that amount. The question that needs to be asked in this regard is: Is it logical that when it comes to the need for a self-protection plan, the Shows Act should remain out of the way? But, above all — and it is part of the dynamics of the operation of the standard itself sponsored by its department — is it acceptable that a self-protection plan for an event of this magnitude should not be monitored or that it should have knowledge, at least formally, of the General Emergency Directorate, whose services will soon have to act, in accordance with its own plan, on the case? Did I do anything in this regard to the General Emergency Management itself? Did you find that self-protection plan before the accident? Is it not logical, if the answer is negative, that there should be a change in this direction so that in the future we can solve differently, given that if we have plans it is necessary to be able to implement them? We understand that there are more silences in that appearance than the relative — and for us it is the fundamental point of this intervention — to the exercise of inspection and control powers by the Council of Galicia which the Union itself accords to the Act of Shows in Article 4, paragraph (d) With regard to Article 24 it says: To exercise inspection and control functions in accordance with the terms laid down in Title IV. I strongly ask you to explain, in your reply, what those functions were and whether they were exercised or not. Let us examine Article 24. Article 24: The General Administration of the Autonomous Community, as well as the Councils within their respective powers, shall ensure compliance with the regulatory legislation on public shows and recreational activities. Well, where does it affect Galician law to the Galician Union in this case? Anything or nothing? Because if it doesn't affect you at all, why does the law speak of the Galician Union instead of assigning it exclusively to the councils? If you're talking about competing or complementary competition, the logic is that you were here explaining the concrete exercise of your competition derived from the Act of Shows, something that hasn't happened so far. Article 24 also encourages it to do so in two specific areas: the inspection of establishments open to the public and the control of the holding of public shows and recreational activities, which is just what the Marisquiño is. In addition, the law encourages it to react in case of detection of irregularities in subparagraphs (c) and (d): the prohibition, suspension, closure and adoption of interim measures, and the adoption of appropriate precautionary measures. The question is clear: did I do something to the Council of Galicia in this respect as a result of the powers conferred on Article 24? He starts by answering that in his replica shift. Have you exercised any competition arising from the Act of Shows in this case? If so, tell us which paragraph corresponds to. And if so, we'll also ask you to deliver the file to us in a timely fashion, without prejudice to the Data Law, of course. But no, we know that no, or at least at this point in his presence, we've already seen that there was no administrative intervention by the Galician Union. So we have a situation of absolute incompetence in the exercise of our own functions derived from the Law of Public Shows. Let us get rid of this and tell us, if so, what kind of functions have been performed under Articles 4 and 24 in this particular case. And in case they have acted, tell us that they are contained in some file, as is normal according to the Administrative Procedure Act. We have two paragraphs in this Article: inspection of establishments open to the public. You might say that the compound where the accident occurred is not such an open settlement to the public. In that case, in paragraph (b) they have control of the public spectacle and recreational activities. Here we understand that there is no excuse for performing functions on the part of the Galician Union, and we are calling attention because we are talking about a show that, according to the organizers themselves, could gather up to 50,000 people. If they did not exercise their powers, they would not exercise the powers deriving from the inspection function, which are those coming from subparagraphs (c) and (d); we suppose not because none of this referred to. If anything like that had done, you have a chance to respond to this. If they didn't exercise their own competence, we understand that they wouldn't cooperate with the other administrations to act more effectively. This is what article 9 of the Galician Public Shows Act says. We understand here, and we have seen it in the last few weeks, that the defiled way in which we are confronted — in a way that sometimes seems sectarian — to other administrations where they do not govern, prevents them from cooperating so that, for the sake of the safety and integrity of people, shows and things come out better. Article 9 states, speaking of cooperation and administrative cooperation, that, in the exercise of its own powers, the administration of the Autonomous Community and the municipalities shall provide each other with information on public shows and recreational activities, and shall provide each other with active cooperation and assistance for the effective exercise of such activities. By this title, or by the second subparagraph, the competent bodies of the Board and the local administration, within their powers, shall ensure compliance with the rules of public spectacles and recreational activities by exercising the appropriate functions of inspection, control and sanction, in accordance with the law and the rest of the applicable legislation. All right. Where did this very article materialize for Galician Union in the specific case of Marisquiño? You might say they didn't have to have access to the self-protection plan because the law didn't have to have access to the municipal emergency plan because the plan didn't have to. But article 9 enabled them to have access to materials that could then be decisive at the initiative of the council, at the initiative of your own initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u79	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u80	...... yes, I will end up... for the very exercise of the functions derived from emergencies. Then I'm still on the next proposal. Simply remember that you tell us, already to start in the replica shift, that you materialized the exercise of the powers that give you the Law itself of public shows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor, Mrs Egerique Mosquera. Sorry, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to reiterate my parliamentary group's wishes for the immediate restoration of the 467 wounded, of the 467 victims, of this accident. And now yes, I would like to make some considerations, if I may. I want to start with Mr. Losada, because, really, listening to you today came to my memory the My Cid verses. What a good bowl if I had a good lord! I have to admit to you today that you have shown great loyalty to the King, but I think he was not loyal to the people, at least to the people of Vigo. I'm really sorry, I'm so sorry, because there are some things we already know, gentlemen, there are some things we already know. [[Applause]] We know that on August 12, a fence was sunk, where a concert was held, causing 467 injuries of different consideration, in addition to an absolute feeling of panic in the whole of the 4,500 people who thought they were there. We know, in addition, that space was found in an obvious state of abandonment. State of abandonment, by the way, ignored by the Council despite the warnings of the spokesperson of the People's Party in Vigo, of various concelers of the People's Party in Vigo and of the Harbour Authority itself. But it is clear that the sovereignty in Vigo prevents any kind of reflection. We know that a self-protection plan was activated and we know that this self-protection plan was mandatory because it was an outdoor event of over 20,000 people. We know that emergency services have evicted — because that plan worked fantastically — the wounded area. We know that they were transferred to the CAP and to the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, and we know that they were magnificently cared for by the health care providers of public health in Galicia. And it's good to remember this: of the Welsh public health. There will be an investigation commission, and I hope Mr. Losada will bring here the bills that those wounded paid for attending to them in that private hospital that you said you were. I hope you bring them here. [[Applause]] We also know that the number of students in the hospital has been strengthened. I think when one first says there was no reinforcement it could be a mistake, but when you keep insisting once you have the data, we've probably already spoken of a lie. And we know that there was a lot of solidarity on the part of the citizens themselves and also of the neighborhoods, who came there with resources, staff, professionals. And I also want you to reflect on this because within a few months Mr. Mayor of Vigo had intended that these professionals, those municipalities that gave the resources, when Vigo went to be discriminated against in public transport or in the parking lot to receive attention in the public health of Galician, retire. But why did that accident happen, what is everyone asking? Why? Well, look, it seems it was something of Providence, because the Vigo Town Hall claimed that this government, the Municipality of Vigo, complied with the law of the first point at the last. Even today Mr. Losada said here that the Town Hall authorized that for what he was asked to do. I believe that the Vice-President's intervention was heard, it is obvious that this was false. They didn't do it, it's not true, they didn't issue permission. Look, who would authorize this event? The Vigo Town Hall. And it doesn't matter whether the land is port, whether it's public, whether it's private, whether it's from the Free Zone, whatever it's from Vigo airport, if it's in Vigo city term, it has to authorize it inexorably, exclusively and in an undisputed way, the Vigo Town Hall. I understand you didn't participate in the law of public shows, but, man, if we're going to do an intervention, at least read it. What did you have to authorize? I had to authorize the Marisquino, with a gap of more than 50,000 people, where a self-protection plan was mandatory. And how is that event authorized? Through a municipal license. That's what the law says, it's simple. But that council, which still has some topic of hiring and splitting contracts in the trial, invented a new legal concept: "the fractionation of security", which consists of partitioning a great event into small events, which are exempt from any responsibility and from any need for verification. Yesterday the newspaper El Mundo published that, instead of a license, it was treated like a verb. I promise, I promise! Look, now that we will receive — I hope — soon all the documentation, I don't have it yet for the reservation duty, but if I have here the inventory of the file — I think Mr. Losada will read it, he told me before, I let him read it, and yesterday, by chance, on the Town Hall page I found this: Requirements for the processing of popular events and parties, information guide. I'll read you paragraph 2 of that information guide. Documentation to be submitted in the Department of Security and Mobility, once authorized, to proceed with the occupation of the public domain and before the start of the event. Vigo Council document, published in your webpage. First, sworn statement by the promoter. Let's see if there's her in that file she's going to read to us. Self-protection plan. That's what we know there is. Declaration responsible for each of the non-permanent structures that can be dismantled. Description of each installation. Accrediting documentation of compliance with all requirements of the applicable legislation for the exercise of each of these facilities and activities. Insurance of civil liability, of each of these facilities, of EUR 150,000. Declaration of conformity of the manufacturer EC or technical project signed by the competent technician of each of these installations. Annual review certificate including the review and maintenance of mechanical elements, as well as the elements of the moving structure, signed by the competent technician of each of these installations. Designation of the natural or legal person who assumes the technical responsibility for the installation of each of them. Demands for water, sanitation, electrical supplies, generators, and you say you authorized a descent and concert. I ask, where is this documentation of the grades that housed the public; the public of Vigo and the whole region?, where is the certification of the scaffolds? Man, if you don't care about this, I say, the CE certificate on the stage! Because, man, the mayor, who takes a collapse where the public is, is complicated, but who takes it on top of the stage is the most normal thing in Vigo. Didn't they even check this out? Didn't you check the carp certification? The ones at the sports facilities? The ramps, the elements of the different circuits, the restoration elements? Did they even check that there was a insurance? It's just that there's no insurance in the file, Mr. Losada, it's not, a liability insurance! [[Murmurs.]] I'm sure that company, which I think is responsible, has RP insurance, but you didn't even ask. Where's that documentation? And then we have to listen to the other side of the opposition that the blame may be for the law. Because, of course, the guilt of stealing in Spain is the Criminal Code. The guilt of murderers is not that of those who commit murder, no, no, it's the criminal code. [[Laughter]] Man!, it's gonna be the fault of those who don't comply with the law, right?, it seems quite reasonable. And by the way -- and I want to say it here -- this is no exception in Vigo. I want to know, Maná concert, 100,000 assistants. Do you have a specific self-protection plan? Saint Roque's parties. You asked for the self-protection plan of all the elements that were outside the San Roque compound. And two inside? Can people die there quietly? Not a single check. They said it's none of their business to be private. But who gives licenses to all private locations operating in Vigo? Don't you give them? But how can you say so much undo here in this room, where we had to pass the Emergency Act! It's incredible! It's something, really, absolutely amazing! The question is, what would have happened after such a scandal? What would have happened is that the measures have been taken to ensure a new edition, because I think we all agree that we would like there to be a new edition of the Marine in Vigo, but, of course, in security conditions! And for that, we would have to determine what mistakes are and identify who is responsible. But we have a council that refuses to investigate, admit mistakes and assume and clear responsibility. If there's a song that perfectly defines Vigo's mayor is that of Cecilia, when he said that, if he wasn't afraid, he would be the bride at the wedding, the child at the baptism, and the dead at the funeral. Since the time it's happened, it's just the dead, it doesn't say a word. He didn't say anything at all. And don't confuse, Mr. Villares, because one thing is talking -- and that's what your mayor does -- and another thing is saying something, and so far this sin has not said anything at all. What he did was spread smoke, that gave him fantastically. First, whether the presence or not of President Feijóo that night in Vigo, after the title of the tour. The issue of port authorization. No, but if the problem is not the maintenance of the authorization. Look, La Voz de Galicia, interview Mr. Vázquez Consuegra. I believe that Mr. Vázquez Consuegra knows you, is the architect of Open Vigo to the sea: "It is a fearlessness to authorize an event of that nature without a prior inspection." In the same interview: "The structure could certainly have lasted another 50 years with a normal use." If it's not a maintenance problem, it's a problem to authorize an event in a site that is not clear that it is well maintained. That's what the county has to do. If it's not okay, it doesn't matter who the title is, it just has to stop the event from happening. It's that simple. But no, before you recognized this, you preferred to spread smoke. I ask, is it important that Mr. Feijóo was there that night? It's a state-of-the-art title! Have you been the government sub-delegate? Have you been the government delegate? Well, it's Vigo, sorry, not the government delegate. Have you been a minister? And now, man, you're being demagogic, I'm asking a question: how long will it take you to Falcon to get from Madrid to Vigo? Or are we just going to attend concerts and not for accidents? [[Laughter]] How long does it take, Mr. Losada? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u83	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u84	They just invented everything. They missed talking about the master, but well, Master now they can't talk because that bothers a lot. It bothers a lot to talk about master now, if not, they would have taken him out too. Look, sorry, sorry! The last of these aims was his favorite, the Puigdemont strategy: they invent a curtain of smoke, we have to create mess. The guilt?"Coruña nos robes, Santiago nos robes us." And that's it, that's it. And last night, lamentable, threatening the different groups of this House if they dared to open an investigation commission. It is open, and in that it coincided with another president, it must be said, someone we knew today who threatened, in this case, the Hague Court, if he was investigated. Mr. Knight and Mr. Trump are almost in line. That's what the killers have, who react the same way under the same circumstances.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u86	I hope we have a commission that allows us to investigate thoroughly this and to believe what's going on in Vigo, which is very serious, because it has become the city a tool for a mayor who prefers the photos to worry about what's under them. Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u87	Thank you, thank you. Time's up. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Vilan, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u88	To ask Mr Pazos Couñago to remove that expression which he has just spoken here. I don't know if he's been insolating this summer, but I don't think this House deserves a lack of respect for that size, nor the person we're talking about, the mayor of the largest city of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. I think you're referring to the word thugs. Mr. Pazos, do you have a problem with removing that word? Quiet, please. [[Various Members pronounce words which are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, please. I'm asking Mr. Pazos, which is what he said. Do you have any drawbacks?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u90	I withdraw the word, for Mr. Knight and for Mr. Trump, at the exact moment when either of them withdraw the threats.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u91	Let's remove that expression. That expression is withdrawn. In any case, it is an expression that should not... the expression is removed and a call to order. You know when I have to withdraw it I correspond to a call to order. Quiet, please. Let's go to the debate, which is the most interesting thing. Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice, Mr Rueda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, following the order of speeches, the truth is that you have lost, in my opinion, quite a while in that discussion you're having about whether or not you're legitimized to talk here depending on whether Vigo can come in or not. It seems to us that they are perfectly legitimized, that I don't discuss it, so I won't waste any time on it. But they do discuss it with their government partners in the parliament. In the deputation, yes, and not in the Vigo Town Hall. They can be with us everywhere. Then he lost his time. But I also think you've wasted some time because what you'd like is to come here and say -- you said it -- we'd be late to explain what was explained here perfectly. We're late, but here we are, and we've been debating for a long time, much more than those eighteen minutes in the Vigo Town Hall, to make it clear that each of us has its own competences. So, as much as you want to twist or try to do some sort of... to see if you're able to hook up to Galician Union, and if you're not to Galician Union, because indirectly to the Harbour Authority, because it relates to Galician Union and PP. I would tell you, what would it look like — I wouldn't want it, and I'm sure the Pontevedra does things very well — that in something organized by the Pontevedra Town Hall something had happened and then if it had been seen that the Pontevedra Town Hall had not done any checks before it had been held that it was authorized and that it had been said that the fault was yours because the Pasetron City Hall is the Town Hall? That's exactly what you just said here. Make that rule three, jump everything and land where it suits you. I'd ask him for some seriousness, because at any moment — I'm sure that's not going to happen — that construction would be better if he could turn against it. So, I'd tell you to think a little bit more about things. Of course, you come here to speak as a Member, but then you don't realize that you are part of an administration that has its rules, because it leads to these absurds, even to me a little dangerous. He spoke here that the Galician Union had to carry out controls. Look, there were several amendments here that they asked for were more control, even more control capacity for the municipalities in public shows that had been held in their territory. More control capacity. They asked for more means, and asked the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces for the smaller municipalities. I don't think it's the case of Vigo, not even the case of Pontevedra, but the more control there is, to ensure that everything was done well, much better. Those are the amendments they tabled in a law, and now they say no. We didn't vote against it, but we didn't want it. Listen! the laws are put to the vote in Parliament, and this law has been adopted — and it is not easy to say — without any vote against. Mr. Losada, allow me to tell you with all due respect, go paper! Get some paper! And speaking of papers, I'm looking forward to seeing — as my colleague Alberto Pazos told you — these authorization files. I'd recommend... finally, I suppose there'll be time to analyze them. Records of authorization of the two things The Little Marshal was. I'll tell you again, you said what you said, a downhill bike all terrain, BTT, call it what you want, and a concert. For the rest, it must be that no authorization was requested. I think if you asked. The organization did what it had to do by asking for permission, another thing is that it didn't look. We'll see, we'll see, but, I tell you, if you think with those papers -- at least those known, or those I have knowledge -- everyone will conclude that the checks they had to do were done, I don't give them the gain. And allow me to give you a tip, I don't recommend that you get into that aubergineal, at least not right now, and not in the name of who really had to. Ask me and make a comparison, why you have the Mayor of Vigo to give no explanation if the president of the board doesn't give it to you. Hey, for a couple of things! Maybe you don't know that Vigo's mayor is responsible for maximum civil protection in Vigo. Perhaps you don't know — but I think you don't know anything, but finally, by doing some rhetoric — that the mayor of Vigo is responsible for an administration that gave the Marisquisño 400,000 euros. I know that Junta also collaborated for the celebration, but, of course, the mayor of Vigo collaborated with 400,000 euros at an event of which he said to know everything and of which he was proud, probably because it's an event with a lot of impact, and it was good to assume, another thing is that, apart from assuming, you have to control the things that correspond to an administrative manager. The mayor of Vigo is what had to have activated the Municipal Emergency Plan on the night of the accident, and he didn't activate anything. The mayor of Vigo is the president of the corporation who signed an agreement in which the council was responsible for the maintenance and, therefore, for the good state of the infrastructure on which the concert was made and which collapsed. The mayor of Vigo—for going up to us, you go up many times when it suits them, and here it is not convenient for us, it is pure objectivity—was the government minister who authorized all that agreement in which it was assigned to the Vigo Town Hall that had to guarantee that maintenance. The mayor of Vigo is the president of the corporation, and being mayor, convicted more than once for not making a good maintenance, for complaints from users who had little alternations, fortunately, in that structure that was not being maintained. The mayor of Vigo is responsible for the administration that had to make those prior inspection visits, and that with the license or authorization, or what you're going to teach us, allowed the concert to be held there and could have prevented it. That's what Vigo's mayor, the most responsible, had to give those explanations. I believe that all these powers do not correspond to the Council of Galicia, as much as when they try to make these parallelisms, in this absolutely impossible case. All those powers of the one who had to give explanations, ventilated in 18 minutes, and, of course, with an scapegoat that was Mr. Font, and now Mr. Font, the provincial deputy, returns it. The parties that rule with the deputy decided that there should be an investigation. That's also to make him think. This is what's happening, and now we're going to see what happened. I insist that you, in the amendments of the Socialist Party, ask for more control, as Mr Bará said, more control capacity for the municipalities over the shows they celebrated. We've seen that, in order not to exercise them, because in this case, in my opinion, they have not exercised themselves at all. Of course, they didn't exercise like they had to. And if you're going to continue with that documentation saying that if they did, please God, eh! God, if you can tell people that everything was controlled and that this happened, you don't know why, because you were to look at everything and look at it the way you should look at it. Go away from me, Mr. Losada! I don't think he's capable, I don't think he's looked at the papers. He made a quick call, they told him that there was this, but with that, frankly, in my opinion... of course, it has to be the legal bodies that have to determine the responsibilities in that sphere. Then you can't talk about it anymore! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, here we're going to talk about an application of the law that was passed in Parliament. Now I'm going with Mr. Villares, linking up with this responsibility. You — you seem to have been your group — made a report where you said what you said here. Trying by any means the responsibility comes to Galician Union. You know the law very well, at least just like me, I'm sure. You in another previous life were a judge, and now you want to make a kind of subjective application to the part that suits you most, now at least. So, it was completely obvious... and one reference to the control that had to have done the Town Hall. I was waiting for him and something he'll say. He didn't say anything at all. And what did he do to Galician Union? Where are the control powers? I hope you'll tell me in your intervention that they did... look, Mr. Villares, let's go with the law. By the way, from that report where he said the responsibilities were others, you know what Mr. Knight said, right? There's a report from En Marea that doesn't let them stay in very good place. And Mr. Caballero's reply: "And who cares what En Marea's say? I don't care about anything at all!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh That's what he said. I do care because you're a representative, come here and I have to debate with you; and I have more respect for you, of course. You should take into account what they say to those people you don't want or rub. He didn't talk, he didn't spend a second to see if the checks were done, whether or not he could be authorized. No, he says, "And the Galician board, what did he do?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Look, it's easy to speak to last bull, but I can warn you, and I can tell you that from now on the Galician Union will be very careful — because it has to be — in the sphere of its competences — which are the ones that are — in the law that has approved this Parliament, that in Vigo City Hall, it seems that mass shows of more than 20,000 people are allowed without even looking at the conditions in which they will develop and without even dedicating a single minute to whether they can do or not. Of course, knowing all this, we need to step up the inspection powers, of course! Now, who would assume that? Who would know what you're saying to me or are you making me understand? They should have looked at that. I know that the law says who had to look at it was the council, Galicia's largest and most important council, and with more means, which is what he had to look at with his technicians, and it turns out that the mayor authorized it without looking at anything at all. It's just that they had to inspect him. Of course! So we both agree. Nothing was done at all and the Union had to overcome that absolute lack of control by the Vigo Town Hall. Of course, the bull last, seeing what happened and seeing what might have happened, and fortunately it wasn't even more serious, for yes, there had to be some sort of not checking, but substitution, than did the Vigo Town Hall. But these things are known when they happen and are not prescribed by law. There is no article that says that, in case a council does not do anything at all, in case a council gives authorizations — or even gives them to them — and allows them to do things without making any checks, someone will have to take care of it. Yes, yes, but the law is thinking that municipalities and rulers are responsible. Now we've seen that not, and we'll see much more about the research committee you've supported. But we're already acknowledging that, in fact, something would have to be done. Of course, when we then see that the Municipal Emergency Plan is not activated, that when it was approved it did not submit to the Galician Civil Protection Commission the Vigo Municipal Emergency Plan. They did not ask themselves — as many municipalities ask — the media that SEGA has for great events and great concentrations. No, no, in Vigo nothing of that is done. But you say the blame belongs to the Galician Union for not imposing itself there and telling the Vigo Town Hall: as I know you're not going to do anything and as I know there may be an accident, we're going in here and do the operations you're not doing. Does that sound logical to you, Mr. Villares? After I say that, I agree with you that it is unfortunate that we were not enlightened by some light that made us see that the things authorized in the Vigo Town Hall are not checked. Whether shows can be performed or not is not intended. That there is enormous irresponsibility in meeting emergencies. Of course, that's all we know now! That's why I was saying in my initial intervention that we have to find out what has not been done to try not to happen again. To recognize that all those mayors and mayors, municipal and technical officials, probably much more humble and with many less means but who are aware of the responsibility they have in their hands, do things right. And so whoever does them wrong, even if it's a city council with a lot of means and a lot of obligations, you'll have to try not to do them. You say you put it in touch with Title IV -- I think that's what he said to me. We can all make a technical plan. You're probably much more capable. We know that when you put yourself in this plan, no one gets over it. But, look, in this case it's very easy to answer. Title IV, Sanctioners: It is up to the competent authority in respect of shows to compete in order to initiate, instruct and resolve the sanctioning files by committing the offences provided for in this law relating to public shows and recreational activities for which the counsellor is authorized. Mr Villares, we agree — at least in that he will agree, he doesn't like anything to acknowledge, he didn't say anything about it — but he who was competent to authorize — as he did — or not authorize — that he could have done so, but authorized without checking — was the Vigo Council. Therefore, whoever had the sanctioning capacity was the Vigo Town Hall with regard to the promoter, in this case The Marshal or whoever had gone, if he didn't do the right thing. But I think we're talking more about lack of control, not from the organizers, but from the council. Of course, from the Town Hall we can talk about other types of responsibilities. Yes, but that's what the trial is for, and let's go back to justice again. That's what you're seeing right now. The law you didn't vote against says we can sanction the shows we authorized. Too bad the Town Hall wouldn't give us more participation in this case and tell us what was true! We're not controlling anything, we authorize everything cheerfully. This isn't The Marine, it's a bike downhill, it's a little concert we're going to do, and so here we don't have to do anything at all. Too bad you didn't know before! Now we wouldn't be here and there wouldn't be 467 wounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u93	Thank you, Vice President. Round of clarifications. [[Pause.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u94	Mr. Rueda, tell us about the deputation and presence of the BNG in the deputation, and I don't think we have to come here to explain the fundamentals of democracy. Of course, the BNG has a government pact in the Member State — by the way, which works very well in its own weight — opened a stage of transparency and democracy that had never lived in the Parliament of Pontevedra, but that we have a pact there not until we make our legitimate decisions in other forums, in other parliaments, in other debates. Now we want the responsibilities to be cleaned up and those who fall into the Harbour Authority, the Town Hall, the Union or anywhere. We have set no limit to this investigation and to this requirement of responsibility. We don't have any ties, as it seems they have others. Here you came to a kind of floral game, to a florist game, the PSOE and the PP, one justifying that the president of the board and the other justifying that the mayor of Vigo does not appear. No, we want them both to come together. We don't justify that because you don't show up either you don't look at each other either; that's not, of course, like this. The spokesperson for the People's Party made here again an already classic, firing exercise of demagogy and populism—it has us accustomed to that with its argumentary—but, curiously, attacking other administrations, in particular, with that fixation they have with the Vigo Council, which come here to oppose it. But he didn't say a word about the Harbour Authority, he didn't say a word about the responsibilities of the Harbour Authority. And if we apply to you what you said from the Vigo Council to the Harbour Authority, we are waiting to see when a file will be opened to the Harbour Authority from the Board, for example, for serious failure to comply with the obligations set out in the State Ports Act. Because the State Ports Act clearly establishes in what terms the transfers and authorizations must be made. I mean, here was an authorization by the Harbour Authority and other authorizations that the Town Hall had to do, but we have to talk about the whole process, not just the municipal part. Mr. Losada asked: if everyone knew that this was in bad shape... there were repeated complaints in the press over the years about the bad state of that public harbour space, walking or whatever, a public space! Therefore, the Harbour Authority, aware of those deficiencies which it has also transmitted to the Town Hall, should act with responsibility and not give in to these facilities, or at least limit the use of the facilities to certain spaces. Or, as the law says, require all the documentation that is needed in this regard, and he didn't. There is therefore a responsibility of the Harbour Authority. And we ask Mr. Rueda and the People's Party to assume that there is that responsibility and that research has to cover all this process, and not only the responsibility of the Town Hall. Because -- I insist -- there are two parts here, the state of that space, and another, the processing of permits for a show, for an event, a crowdinary, in which the Harbour Authority and the Vigo Town Hall participated. Then there are also the responsibilities of the Galician Board as well as the registration of the Self-Protection Plan and also the fulfilment and application of the Act of Shows. After what you have said here, Mr. Rueda, about the very serious breach by the Hall of Show Law, I don't know what you're waiting for. They should go to the court to denounce the Vigo Council, they should open a file, they should sanction the Vigo Council for violating the law so seriously, as you said here and as the People's Party representative said. Because the law is about to be fulfilled. We have made the criticism of the law, which we have said here, among other things, because it places too much competence on the municipalities. And the main problem will not be that of the big cities, which have certain means and technical and economic capacity to meet this responsibility, but that of the small municipalities when they have to look into the mirror of applying the law. And finally, I think that after this debate, after this appearance, the conclusion should be that more humility and more responsibility are needed; humility to learn from what has been done wrong. Here it is clear that there has been a chain of errors and negligence that affects different administrations, and we have to assume that, we have to recognize it and we have to correct it. And, of course, there is a fundamental problem that needs to be solved, which is to improve coordination and institutional cooperation, which has failed very sharply here. Institutional loyalty is suddenly failing, day after day, in the case of the relationship between the Union and the Vigo Council. And behind this tragic sinister we saw that the best of a society was manifested in people's ability to respond, and also the worst, in that chain of errors, but above all in that lamentable spectacle that they came through these weeks and that they also gave here the Junta, the Town Hall and the Port. We think the victims and the Galician society really don't deserve this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u95	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, don't worry about the Cunqueriro Alvaro bills, neither the Fatima bills nor the Povervisa bills, as you're sure you know, the liability insurance assumes -- because it's in the clauses -- those costs. By the way, it's in the insurance file and it was handed over to Mrs. Muñoz. It's in the file Mapfre's insurance policy of organizers, civil liability insurance, and it was handed over to Mrs. Muñoz; another thing is that she had transpapeled it. Okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The technical issues of temporary facilities, such as scenarios and other issues, are in the Self-Protection Plan. Finally, Mr Pazos, I find it complicated sometimes, between falcons, masters and other issues, and the murderers, to debate with you. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] They're on the self-protection plan, which is here and which was also handed over to Mrs. Muñoz. Of course, at last, I can give it to the president, but now that there is an investigation commission, I suppose, indeed, that this documentation will appear there. I was actually going to read the administrative process, which I have here, but I'm going to leave it to the end because I want to answer some questions. In fact, the areas of municipal domination that affected the bike race from all over the land have been reviewed. They've been revised. Aqualia was asked to finish in time works that were produced in a particular street, rising to the castle. They're file, too. Similarly, the temporary installations of the music concerts, which together with this, have been checked for permission from the Vigo Town Hall. The Vigo Town Hall cannot authorize what is not required to do. I'm not going into legal matters, I say exactly what entered the Vigo Town Hall Registry requesting authorization for its development, and they were the music concerts and the downhill bikes from the Castro Mountain to the port. That's exactly what's on the file. The truth is that Mr Rueda actually talks little about justice. There's an instructional trial. The prosecutor himself said, "There are no preconceived ideas. We have to wait for all the reports. It seems that both Mr. Rueda and Mr. Pazos, in addition to the Song of My Cid, have already reported what happened. I know what happened — and I'm talking about seeing the press and the media — is a continuous change by the administrations of the People's Party on this subject. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you — whether you like them or not — are campaigning with the Marisqueño. They're campaigning with the Marshal. [[Applause]] Because, by the way, Mr. Pazos, Mr. Rueda and Mrs. Egerique, if the city is really that widespread disaster, closer to Lakes in Nigeria than Stockholm... what are you saying? That the 300,000 citizens of Vigo are idiots? [[Murmurs.]] They're not, uh, and they vote. And I repeat, they'll vote again, we'll see. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Despite their denouncing efforts with all means, by land, sea and air, they will vote again. You'll see. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, manipulation comes to such a point that in the first news on the topic on Galician Television, picking up, in fact, the letter of the convention, said textually: "It corresponds to the Town Hall, for 50 years, maintaining the good state of conservation and maintenance of gardens, furniture, asphalt, tunnel conservation and surveillance", which is exactly what appears. This, after that, even disappeared from official websites because, in fact, it proved that what the Vigo Town Hall had to do was not exactly checking a port. I repeat again: a port, a spring. I know it costs you guys some work, before someone said he was convicted of an accident... first, the mayor wasn't convicted. The Council is condemned to pay a civil liability for an actual stumbling block of a citizen, a citizen, in a work, as, by the way, it happens in every municipality in the world. Mr. Rueda, these are the reports of the emergency reports of Vigo Town Hall on that day. Yeah, yeah, I'm... I just can't... I don't have the mythological ability, I tell you I am. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'd like you, in addition to bringing here a legal report, to bring it in exactly what they did. I'll tell you something they did. When the mayor of Vigo wanted to speak to the president of the board at noon, the president of the board, legitimately, took some time to settle down. Then, when he actually put it on, he transferred the information to him. Vigo's mayor was up to four and a half hours instead of the accident. At three o'clock in the morning he tried to get back in touch with the president of the board, once Vigo firemen assured that there were no fatal victims and that there was no one left to rescue, and he was told from the secretariat of the president of the board that he didn't need, that the president of the board had already spoken to other authorities. That was the importance of the same president of the board that the following day, yes, was absolutely looted at the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u97	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u98	I'm not going to repeat here, I insist, Mr. Pazos; but really with the photographs that will accompany Mr. Núñez Feijóo's entire political life, that you come here to talk to us about not knowing what the mayor of Vigo has to have a lot of political choice too, if you want, to avoid calls to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u100	And by the way, I'm going to read very briefly four headlines to see exactly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u101	It's over. Very brief.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u102	...who was a charlatan, and who is being a charlatan and is campaigning in an unworthy manner with a serious accident. The Port finds the Marisquiño not to check if the promenade was suitable for the festival. The port fires against O Marisquiño and finds it not to have checked the dock. Logically, the Marisquiño recommended to the Port that activities put their facilities at risk. The Marisquiño ensures that the distribution of activities was consistent with Porto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u104	Do you really have anything to say about the mayor of Vigo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u106	Yes, there are seven conciergemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u107	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u108	...and they're going to have five.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u109	Cats, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u110	Thank you very much, President. Mr Vice-President, I would like to begin by thanking you for the technical level of intervention. Of course, that's what we came here to do to this House as well. If we've come here to talk about competences, instead of going around trying to make it difficult for people who listen to us on which we base our claims, it might be more useful to explain to the citizens on which we base our own claims. That's what we've been trying to do since En Marea at first: trying to solve some problems that the rulers on one side and another couldn't handle. That is why we here, in Parliament's own area, have come to talk about the exercise of powers, also in this case of the Galician Union. This also requires talking about the Act itself, even if you still care about it or don't give it to you, as Mr. Losada does. We agree in part with your intervention, when you also say that the Town Hall has an area of responsibility that you have not fulfilled, or whatever. We don't deny that, but we're in the Welsh House; that's to say, we've come here not to blame the Vigo Town Hall, but to see what the performance of the department you're running is, because that's what you're running for. In order to explain the Vigo Council and its leaders their own scope of responsibility, we have also asked for a commission of inquiry in Vigo, because we want to know the truth and delimit it in every area. That's why we ask Caesar to tell you what is Caesar's and Rueda's. I'm not equipping Caesar with this. I'm also glad that you say that later, if you knew that the Vigo Council wasn't going to perform its duties, you would exercise the powers that gave them the law. One step is a step, to recognize that there were powers assigned by the Galician Shows Act that you did not exercise and were very clear, because the scope of competition set out in Article 4, Article 24 and Article 9 itself is something that must be activated on a preventive basis. Preventive, not backward. The sanctioning character you later refer to, too, with the attribution of powers to the Town Hall itself, has a later character, in the face of the detection of certain infringements. But there is an area of responsibility for the Galician Union which derives from the nature of inspection and control in its own field. That's all we meant. And we say it constructively too, so that in the future it won't happen again. Something you have taken note of — from which we also rejoice — and said here — we really say it honestly — that in the future, shows that have such a great citizen burden, such a multitude of people, the Council of Galicia will take special care of them, without undermining any other festival, regardless of the number of people. Obviously, it is the exercise of competence in a matter as sensitive as civil protection, and so we demanded full responsibility and full co-responsibility between the competing administrations here. Yes, the fact was complex, so the answer has to be complex, and that's why everyone has to assume their own responsibility and not circumvent it in favor of others because that will condemn us to repeat it in succession. That is why we demand that for the future they inspect the establishments open to the public and control the celebration of public shows and recreational activities, which is this, and not the other thing, to which the law obliges them. We also said that article 9 allowed them to cooperate with the municipalities, even those that are not of their political colour, so that the development of shows would take place in conditions of security and integrity of people. The last reflection that we wanted to introduce to the previous intervention was whether the emergency law forecasts were working properly. You've seen a fact of what we've been echoing in the past few weeks, about not activation of the Municipal Emergency Plan, and how you jumped into the 112 services precisely the entire emergency device, which was not because of the activation of the plan -- you see that I'm also talking about matters of the council -- but about the action of a different source. It seems to us that it is of great value to us that for the future we should bear in mind that municipal emergency plans must be in possession of Galician Union itself, as in the case of the self-protection plan itself. That this is not mandatory, that this is not done like this, that it is only a matter of opportunity, but that it is not compulsory? Well, maybe we should ask ourselves if we don't even have to go to an amendment to the rule in that sense. Is it normal that the General Emergency Management does not have a copy of the self-protection plan if it is a key piece for the event's security? Article 9 enabled them to turn to it, but I insist, if they did not see it convenient or if they see that there is insufficient normative attribution, let's go to reform. That we can study here or we can study it in the research committee itself as a conclusion, we are open to talking about it. In addition to this co-responsibility in administrative cooperation, and aside from any kind of sanction, we also wondered whether they somehow verified that the organizers of the same and the Harbour Authority also complied with those obligations emanating from Article 23, which were of a solidarity nature, and of what we saw that neither one nor another echoed. I'm not saying this is the last and only of your skills. I'm finished with an idea, and it should be clear from this appearance that the exercise of the responsibilities derived from the Galician Shows Act compels us, towards the future, to place a greater emphasis on prevention, inspection and control, regardless of whether there are any other administrations that have competing responsibilities, because that cannot relieve you of your own responsibility, especially when the safety of so many people at stake is at stake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u111	Thank you, Mr. Villares. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u112	If you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, and for going to answer some questions that were said here today, I began by order, by Mr Bará, who continues to insist on the responsibility of the Harbour Authority. Look, Mr Bará, the Harbour Authority has an obligation to give up the land. I'm sorry, you have an obligation to believe that you give up the land. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] You say better: you have an obligation to believe it; you can decide whether to give them up or not. And it is true that there may even be opinions as to whether or not to do so. The question is that in the 8th Commission of this Parliament we have already discussed this issue, and the position of the three opposition groups was that the minimum check by, for example, of Galician ports of any circumstance which could prevent normal activities in a Portuguese port, port activities, had to be considered an interference in local autonomy. Just checking... yeah, yeah. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The good thing this Parliament has is that things are recorded and can therefore be checked. In particular, the term 'interference' was a Member in this particular case of En Marea. All three agreed, all three agreed. And, in fact, they were asked to facilitate themselves — that is if the representative of the Socialist Party did so — immediately because it was normal, because the cities had to occupy this, because it was fundamental to the municipalities, and it was necessary to make it easier. Now it turns out they've changed their mind. In the commission any control was interference, and now the responsibility of control is already equal. Look, you ask him to open himself, Mr Bará, a file according to the law of the state. I already understand it's the flaw of habit, but there's another government in the state now. No, no, not the Harbour Authority, asked for it to be opened from the ministry. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, listen to your own voice. Of course, it's just that the People's Party no longer rules... I understand that they have to relocate, but man! it's past summer, it's been 100 days, it's up to them to settle down and ask for responsibilities. And he also said it's too much responsibility for the municipalities. Home!, I understand that this may be questionable, the responsibilities that each law gives to the small councils, but for that, the mechanisms of collaboration, which you have to request from you, Mr. Villares. You have to ask if you want cooperation, both from the Parliament and the Council of Galicia; it's covered by the law. But, man!, the Vigo Town Hall, Galicia's most populous county, Galicia's best managed municipality, Galicia's most remaining municipality, Galicia's most medium-sized municipality, the best mayor of the world, envying the mayors of New York and not knowing how many other cities... man! I don't think I need the help of Galicia's board! Mr. Losada, I've told you before, I'm so sorry about the paperwork you made here today. I'm sorry because you know that I love you very much, but you can't lie at parliamentary headquarters -- of course -- and I want to think you didn't. If you didn't, the Vigo Town Hall lied. This is the relationship of documents received by the PP spokesperson in Vigo. Quote: Request for concerts. Self-protection plan. Written by the Harbour Authority where the ground is handed over. Bank security, 1,000 euros for possible defects. BTT (ocular) descent report. Report visual inspection O Marisquiño (ocular). Motion for a resolution. That's not resolution, eh! Motion for a resolution. New report on the decline in the old helmet because they actually corrected a question. Report (also ocular) on the holding of concerts. Last sentence signed to PP spokesman: No more documents. Where's the safe? Mr. President, we're going to have to improve coverage in the room so we don't have to go out with the phones to get some advice calls. I understand, but make sure they don't lie to you. It's not safe. It is not in the given documentation. Either you lie, or you lie to the Vigo Town Hall, or if you've hidden information from the Vigo Town Halliers, and that's very serious. Very serious, Your Honor. It's 476 wounded, Your Honor. Where's the safe? It's not the only trap we saw here today, you did another one, and this is what you did. You accused the T.V.G.G. of removing a document, Vigo's agreement, and you read the paragraph that seemed to you of the agreement. Room room, what you half read. He's got two paragraphs, he's got two paragraphs. I read to you or first: "The City Hall commits, during the 50 years of this convention, to the maintenance of all the performance in a perfect state of conservation, either by its own means, or by the appropriate recruitment of works and services." All the performance. Paragraph 2: "The City of Vigo undertakes to pay for the public lighting and water consumed in the sources and facilities of this area, as well as to maintain the gardens, urban furniture, cleaning, asphalt, tunnel conservation, surveillance and so on." No, no, in the first paragraph, this council acquires the obligation to assume the full maintenance of the performance, and in the second paragraph they specify what maintenance and conservation work it has to do. Don't lie. Because we barely start here with an investigation commission if we start fooling the citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u113	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u114	I'm done. I think Mr. Villares has made some contribution worth considering. We'll have it at your own time. But, frankly, the despair you showed by including Together in the responsibilities of this accident is more frustrating. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u115	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Close this meeting, Mr Vice-President and Chairman of the Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, I have just said that it's a bit surprising that your Members of the House — you have an opinion of your management and I have another opinion, but we haven't come here to talk about it — these very ones who needed you to rule and that's why they're ruling, they say they have no right to speak of Vigo because in Vigo no one votes them. They may be right about that, but we believe they have the right to speak even if no one votes for them. Then in the deputation it's something else, because there they're sharing power, but in Vigo they can't even speak, according to the theory of the Socialist Party. You can tell at a very short distance what things are, and what kind of allies are they? I'm telling you to think about it, beyond what happened here today. Today Mr. Losada came here to defend... I, of course, at least tried to talk about what the Galician Board had done on the day of the accident. First I couldn't do anything and now I'll try to talk a little more about it, Mr. Villares, when I briefly answer what you said, according to that theory of yours. Mr Pazos has already told you. True, I was no longer aware of that, indeed, when it was said that the ports of Galicia had to exercise greater control, you protested and said that little interference, that in no way! Now you're saying that in the face of the proven risk, as it has been pointed out — I think you yourself implicitly acknowledged it, at least that was my impression and I'm sure that many other Members and Members — that the Vigo Council did not do what it had to do, that we must act preventively and that we must not trust each other, so we must get involved. But I would like to know what the Galega Federation of Municipalities and Provinces thinks of that theory. Because we can apply it to a lot of things. And why don't we also do it in urbanism, recruitment and personnel management, because the laws say what they say. But as there are probably many mayors and mayors in the vision and in the opinion that you have, who are willing to violate the law, what we have to do is control them before, make them police, which is what you were telling me what to do here. I understand that this is a serious issue, but often you leave the municipal officials. Here laws are made to think that people who voluntarily face responsibilities, because first they submit to elections, will comply with the law. And you're saying the opposite: as they're going to fail, let's intervene first. At the end of the day, it's your orientation of this audience, because you didn't dare, I'm sorry I told you... you said so, in addition: the commission of inquiry that I voted for is to control the board. What the Town Hall did is the concierge of Vigo, what do you tell me? I'm going to the Junta, to the mayor of Vigo I don't touch a hair. I know you've failed, but it's your fault to trust him, not to control him, not to intervene before the Town Hall intervenes. Great theory! I really think... in this case you're seen, I told you, that's what I said. He talked ironically when he was talking about the ability of legal technique to twist arguments to reach an end which he had already fixed. That, at last, is bad when you're a judge, and I'm not going to get into that, and also, of course, and in that I'm going to get in, when you're a parliamentary. I didn't say that. I didn't say we had to act and we didn't act, I said, if we knew, of course we had. If we find out, as Mr. Losada said here: shall they tell me? We only authorized two things. The Marisquin was much bigger, but the theory launched at the four winds, Mr. Losada, and understood all over the world, is that in Vigo you can do whatever you want. If you want, you ask for a license, and then you make two papers, and if you don't ask for a license, it's okay. And, of course, you can only ask the Town Hall for responsibilities for those things you've been licensed to. If it's public and notorious that other things are being done and no permission is requested, there's nothing to say there. This doesn't work like this, Mr. Losada. He taught the papers like this, as you put them in the air, but there's absolutely no report there on the solidity of the structures, no check beyond saying that there was a self-protection plan. Yes, yes, the organizers presented a self-protection plan, the ones they had to follow after doing the checks were the ones that didn't, and of course they're not the organizers. It was the Town Hall and it didn't, but with that theory, of course, at last. Totally, why did they ask permission for anything? If they didn't ask for it, nothing happened at all. And if they asked for it, they wouldn't control it, or they'd do some air check. That's all we're going to know now. That's all you'll see, of course, in the trial, first. Mr. Bará, I suppose you wouldn't listen to me when I said that we're going to figure out, first, to ask for that public money to be returned, which is not from the Board, to be from all over the world, for health care. We are worried, indeed, Mr. Losada, that we are concerned because these are money that is paid by taxes from all the Greeks and Greeks and we want to recover them, but, being personified, we will see a lot more. We will see if there is indeed responsibility. Not as Mr. Villares says: you should ask her first. We didn't know it, I insist, if we knew it, of course we had acted, but we didn't know it was an irresponsible Vigo Town Hall in order to authorize these things. And we'll ask for responsibilities. The law says that the sanctioning procedure... I've already told you before and you know it as a matter of fact, no longer referred to your second intervention to that. I suppose I'd read the title four when I told him and I'd read him out loud that we can sanction what we authorize. When we can't, it's when the judges are there and when the responsibilities will be. And we'll see if you've authorized or not authorized. Responsibility of any kind. It remains in the hands of justice if it is criminal responsibility, administrative responsibility, litigation. We're not going to get involved. We're going to give the means so that it can be done as soon as possible because we think it's good. First, in recognition of all those municipal officials of all political parties, of all colors, who, when they receive an authorization to take it seriously, look at it, do the checks and, if they cannot authorize it, do not authorize it. There are many denials. Of course, that's costing you. There are people who don't want to take it and others who do. If one can't do one thing, one can't do it, but responsibility is there. But for you, the magic recipe is to say, it's that the Galician Union had to be monitoring everything. It's just that the municipalities had to be tied to their feet and their hands, say what the law says, because the Council of Galicia is the one that has to always be extralimited in its competences, to do what it doesn't authorize the law, so that it can then blame him as you did today in this plenary. Things don't work that way. Things work by asking for responsibility for whom you have to exercise it, seeing if you practiced it and, above all, trying to know what happened so that it won't repeat again. The Marisquin accident was a very serious accident, fortunately it wasn't much further. You said, Mr. Losada — and I am finished, Mr. President — that the Mayor of Vigo later called back to the President of the Union and the President of the Union said he was already informed. Indeed, what a shame that for three years, since the Civil Protection Plan was approved, there was no time to send it to the Galician Council so that we had knowledge of how things were organized and able to act. In three years there was no time, and now we're talking about time and a half. What a shame, Mr. Losada! What a way to defend the indefensible! [[Applause]] It's not like you said it. For days the only defense argument of Mr. Mayor of Vigo, Mr. Caballero, was that which you are saying, which is the responsible for civil protection, the responsible for emergencies, which did not send the plan to the Board, which did not act. That where Mr. Feijóo was, that he had to be there by his side, and as he was not, he was responsible for everything. We're very used to that kind of policy, that kind of throw balloons out. This shows again, in eighteen minutes, where the accident was, where the competency was, where the checks were not done before they authorized, 18 minutes to talk about everything. We've been here for three hours and we'll talk a lot more, because we owe it to the municipal officials, to the victims, and finally to the decency of the administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u117	Thank you, Vice President. We suspended the session until 6:00, four in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u118	We restart the session with point 4 of the agenda, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to sexual violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u119	Amendments to this motion were tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the En Marea Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Quinteiro Araújo, through her spokesman and in the light of Rule 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits the following amendment to this motion to the Bureau.Additional amendment.Two new points should be added after the motion's resolution:"9. Extend gender equality to all educational courses, adapting content to each educational stage and including specific blocks of affective-sexual education.10. To develop a Welsh macro-enquise, in quantitative and qualitative terms, on the impact of male violence throughout the life cycle of women, where specific sections are included on sexual violence."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs. Maria Luisa Pierres López, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Additional amendment.After the resolution of the motion, a new point must be added:"8a. Reflect within the annual follow-up report of Law 11/2007, of 27 July, Galicia for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence, of the General Secretariat of Equality, in the analysis and magnitude of gender-based violence, data relating to sexual violence reported during the study period, disaggregating them by sex, age, and type of aggression or abuse."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Marián García Míguez, through his spokesman and in the light of Rule 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Amendment of amendment.The text of the motion should be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1. Continue to develop Law 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence with regard to the awareness, prevention and comprehensive treatment of sexual violence as male violence, increasing in the next fiscal year the budget for gender equality, as well as prevention and intervention in the field of combating gender-based violence.2. Include, in the annual follow-up report of Law 11/2007 of 27 July, Galicia for the Prevention and Comprehensive Treatment of Gender Violence, a specific chapter on sexual assault.3. Continue to develop information campaigns to encourage in society the knowledge that tools and resources against violence against men, such as CIMs, phone 016, app 'Escap' and app 'Aggression OFF: I say no to sexual violence', are available for care and counselling also in the face of sexual assaults, both for victims and for third persons.4. To include in the objectives of the work commission set up within the European Monitoring Centre for Gender Violence, the follow-up to the implementation and degree of compliance with the Protocol on Coordination and Institutional Cooperation adopted in 2017, with regard to the different forms of violence in all its areas of action.5. Include in the General Secretariat of Equality website a specific section visible on the startup screen with information on sexual violence and its resources for attention and intervention.6. Continue to work in educational centres on relations of abusive use of power and systemic violence in personal relationships, in order to identify mechanisms that support gender violence, and promote positive and peaceful relationships for all members of the community, facilitating guidelines for adaptation and inclusion in the centre's co-existence plan, which allow for the prevention and detection of behaviours that are integrated into the gender violence gradient and carrying out awareness, information, training and intervention activities for the entire educational community"]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u120	To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u121	Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Well, of the many debates that have recently opened feminism in recent times, since the Nationalist Block in Wales we are convinced and convinced that there is one who is called to assume a qualitative leap in the empowerment of women and in the fight against violence, and that is the issue of conceptualization and recognition of sexual violence in all its dimensions. This is a challenge for society as a whole, also for institutional response. And since the Galician Nationalist Block, we'd like the Galician Union to stop looking at the environment and meet the demands of this historic moment. No one escapes that recent events in our society have impacted significantly in the same way. Perhaps what lived in Manada's case is the fact that in a more powerful way it can mark one before and after one where it is supposed to take social consciousness. Questions such as consent, how to assess how the patriarchate conditions our sexuality and the insufficiency also of an institutional legal framework that often leaves the victims behind questioning and revitalizing them are today at the heart of the debate. In Galicia we have strong starting points to build more and better work. On the one hand, we have a society that reflects the patriarchy in many respects, but which, at the same time, also gives continuous examples of its consciousness and its commitment to eradicate it. We have close examples such as the March 8 historic, which has had far higher mobilisations in our country in terms of the rest of the state. A mobilization that didn't go back when we all went out the streets to condemn that shameful Manada sentence. Even a few weeks ago, in the face of a sexual assault that occurred at the Armadínña Rock festival, there was an excellent response by both the organization and society, which did not hesitate to leave the street to support the victim and not to place the slightest importance on those events. Evidence of this kind shows that we have a society with high sensitivity to accommodate more and better proposals against sexual violence. And on the other hand, we also have another fortress, which is a pioneering legislation; pioneer but underused and underdeveloped by the Government of the People's Party. It must be remembered that while the state is still coming to this debate because of the state pact, in our country for ten years, legislation has already recognized sexual violence as a more masculine form of violence. But we have an apathetic government that lacks its own initiative. Understanding sexual violence as an expression of patriarchal domination over women is also very recent. And that hasn't yet moved from everything to society or institutions; it's still far from being assumed as such. But we have to keep in mind that the consequences of sexual assaults, if they are something dramatic and hard on the individual plane, and we must give all the support and resources to the victims or, rather, survivors, we also have to remember that it is something that has a collective impact beyond the individual in all of us. Because as a form of social domination conditions our sexuality, our leisure, our right to live in freedom and without fear. And every time there's a sexual assault and every time it doesn't respond as if we should be further away from freedom and equality. Also when that response — I insist — is inappropriate, when the victim is judged or the women themselves are responsible for being them, if we ourselves have to avoid aggression. We have recent examples, like that of a Lugo cop who recommended we shouldn't have left the house if we weren't afraid to be assaulted. Examples like that show that the choice of fear is always for us, and calls for a change of perspective. And that's why we can't comply with having only a very advanced law on paper. That's one of the problems we have in Galicia with a paralysed board that doesn't pay too much attention to how to develop that frame. That is why in this motion we propose a number of proposals. And as a first urgency, for a greater commitment to that eradication of sexual violence, as a more form of masculine violence, but with many specificities, today we propose to increase the budget for 2019, and also that we report to this parliament that specific acts related to sexual violence are dedicated to, because, if not, we will continue again with those good words and appeals to cross-sectionality, but with little accountability. Because, look, the criminal balance of the Ministry of the Interior records for Galicia in the first half of the year twenty-nine complaints for rape with penetration and 200 thirteen for other sexual crimes. That gives us a balance of one rape a week and more of one sexual assault a day. And that has a dimension, collective repercussions for all society that cannot be allowed not to expand resources, because we have few and we have them underused. And that's why we're addressing a number of issues in our proposal. For example, we are concerned — and we have repeatedly insisted on the interpellation with Mr Rueda — that such tools as the CIMs, such as the 016 and other attention phones, because many victims, but also third-party and third-party people, may not consider that those tools that are there also for sexual violence. Access to information must be improved in all respects. It's unheard of that today's board of equality website doesn't even have a specific section for sexual violence, which we also propose to create. Because we think we have to do more, yes, but we also have to evaluate what is done to see if the answer is also adapted to this type of violence. That's why we also focus on the question of protocols, in which it is evaluated they also work for sexual violence, and not only for situations of ill-treatment, which in many cases are continued ill-treatment and belong to another type of care. That is why we propose that this should be evaluated in the appropriate areas, involving the Galego Observatory of Machist Violence and so on. We have recently had knowledge of the media of a violation in Xinzo that has not been dealt with as it corresponds to the state protocols, both Germans and also internationals of care to victims of rape. We need to assess these aspects. Also improve campaigns and their planning. This year we saw how, for example, the Galician Union decided to follow the initiative of many festivals in our country and to carry out a specific campaign in that field of leisure. It's something we have insisted that as an idea we didn't feel bad, but its practical application we have to recognize among all of them that was very insufficient. Some almost imperceptible posters at thousands of people's festivals are not doing anything but almost. That is why we propose that this initiative be approved, that a report be made on this and the sector involved, that proposals be made for improvement. There is another issue that does not stop worrying about, which is all about the low level of complaints that exist, which is a virtually stagnant level. If we check the data we've taken from 2018 and the data we've had from the previous year, we see there's a stagnation. Is that what there is no sexual assault? Well, of course not, what proves is that something fails. If we assess that the increase in complaints about gender-based violence is positive, we need to assess that these types of complaints do not increase that something fails. Something fails in justice, of course, but there is also a network of support that is effective, that is known and that we can improve among all. We understand that it has not been sufficiently evaluated in our country, neither quantitative nor qualitatively. And we need to sit down quietly and evaluate what tools we have and how we can improve them. The People's Party has agreed to two questions, and recently this chamber has been approved to make a macro-enquiry. We see him well, we expect that to be done as soon as possible. The fact that we don't have any news of this worries us a little bit. They also agreed to include sexual violence as a specific part of those reports of annual male violence, to the thread of what this point of law requires, and we understand that this would be positive. It also continues to improve that report which we have often criticized because it is virtually mechanical and repetitive and does not introduce that qualitative assessment that is so necessary. But we think there are also new proposals to be made, and we make one in particular. We understand that this statistical information is important, and it will be important when it comes, but it's not enough. For example, some of the issues that we have to consider are what happens to these complaints, what happens to this process from the beginning to the end. And in that sense we intend to do something that has already been done with the violence of the masquerade: when in our country the system fails, when there is a murder, when there is a mistake in the chain of protection, when there is, for example, a mistake because the protection of the alleged or already confirmed killer was not the right one, there is a study in collaboration with the judiciary, in collaboration with other links in the chain of failure and how it can be improved. And we wonder why not do yourself with sexual violence and why not sit all the elements on a table to assess this issue. But it's not the only thing we're proposing, there's another issue that seems fundamental to us, which is to give a radical change to the approach we're applying, because we're not fighting the culture of rape. I urge another kind of campaign that abandons paternalism, that abandons protectionism, and helps keep that debate open about consent, about breaking topics, because eighty percent of rapes are committed by a acquaintance, not by an assailant in the middle of the night. And in those enclaves is youth and teaching. Here we have to intervene, we have to abandon those policies that only respond to the volunteering of the teacher. It's not enough for sexuality to approach in ESO's third biology, it's not enough that there's only workshops for a few centers in this course. We must overcome the preeminence of pornography as sexual education for our children. And for that, we would have to transform a lot into teaching and introduce co-educational content at all stages. But as a transitional measure we intend to extend to each and every one of our country's educational centers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u122	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u123	...specific spoons. That's possible and necessary. In short, Mr President, since this initiative, we have invited the Council of Galicia to abandon once that apathy and lack of initiative as to sexual violence, and to bet on developing our specific law of macho violence, which has been giving us tools for many years, but which could give us much more. We need to develop it, we need more resources and we also need to collectively improve the focus of speech that we have also issued from public authorities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u125	Because fighting rape culture won't be easy, but doing the same thing we're going to go much slower...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u127	...and it's something we can't afford as a society. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u129	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. First of all, I would like to make clear the position of the Socialist Group, which is in support — as it could not be otherwise — of the measures presented in this motion. It is a necessary support, which should also be from all groups, because this manifestation of violence has to be addressed from many fronts, and especially from the conviction of the necessary implementation of feminist policies. But the measures presented today, and even the additions presented by the different groups, are not enough, because this problem is linked to issues such as power relationships, gender stereotypes, inequalities in the working environment, where women always find themselves in a situation of inferiority, also vulnerability, and where sexual violence finds the right culture broth to manifest themselves. The truth is that since this motion was introduced last July 10 many were the sad news that around sexual violence happened in our country, like the recent cases of attempted rape in Lugo. But there is something new that we want to highlight positively from this Socialist Group today, and also with great pride of party, because it speaks of the real commitments of a state government that is socialist and that is masculinely feminist. A Government that in just a hundred days has not only become a referee: the Executive with more women in Europe and -- why not say so? -- from all over the world, but is a Government that has shown its firm commitment to the State Covenant against Gender Violence, putting in place many of the measures contained therein, unlocking the availability of funds for local institutions and autonomous communities, that by the end of this month or beginning of the next month they will arrive, as well as announcing the duplication of funds for the coming year. [[Applause]] But not only that, but all the measures that have been put in place in state policies, have all been taken with a view to gender. To make a capitalally feminist policy, to work for a Labour Equality Act and to lay the groundwork for a future anti-trafficking law, that's to make a capitalally feminist policy. And that's the difference between a socialist government, which puts feminism and, therefore, equality in its proper place, and a government as well as that of the People's Party, accustomed to minimally feminist policies and to preventing even the tiny one from becoming capital. [[Applause]] A People's Party that misjudges the fight against sexual violence with messages like those of the preamble to mobile application Aggression Off, in which it focuses sexual violence on victims, recommending that they be able to protect themselves. A measure that is obvious the objective that must be given priority in preventive policy, which is to work to educate potential aggressors. Women, as the most common victims of sexual assaults, have the right to be as free as men. And for this very reason, from the Socialist Group, we have made it clear that policies have to affect the control of violent people, and especially by working on measures in education to root out gender stereotypes. And to achieve all of this it is necessary to overcome the invisibility of sexual violence, which continues to keep it in a more private, almost intimate environment. I also refer to those data from the Ministry of the Interior, which from January to June during the year 2018 figures in twenty-nine rapes with penetration in Galicia, as well as two hundred thirteen sexual offences registered. That means that every two days, three women, mostly children and also children, are sexually assaulted, losing their freedom, their dignity and dying emotionally. And that is our request and the fundamental contribution to today's proposal: to request that the following annual reports of the General Secretariat of Equality, following Law No. 11/2007, be reflected in the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence, with data disaggregated by typologies, by age, by sex, reflect the data on sexual violence, whether assault, rape or abuse. To work from the true dimension of the problem, to deal with and to care about what happens next to us, because pointing with one finger on the trader of women in faraway countries will not change the reality of the abuses and aggressions that happen next to us. There's a finger that's pointing directly at us, our surroundings, our families, our cities and, why not, also our political responsibilities. And it's because of that political responsibility, which the People's Party has in front of this government, so I would like to ask them to abandon the policy of equality in lower places and to press as socialists the key that places feminism as the fundamental axis of all policies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u131	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. We will also vote in favour of this motion. It seems to us — as we have already stated on other occasions — that much remains to be done to fight against the violence of the macho, but especially with regard to sexual violence. It must not be an absolute priority because, unfortunately, too many of its forms are very normalized — as the spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block said. And I think that when we talk about sexual violence, it's important to clarify that we understand about sexual violence. And it may seem a lot to me about, but I think it's very important that we think about stereotypes and images that are being sold on sexual violence, that are often alienated from the real violence that women experience. Little is said of the violence women suffer in the nearest environment, although in quantitative terms they are one of the most fundamental, or little is said of the harassment women live in their jobs, with the obvious difficulties that they have to mark this type of practice, because they often come from superiority, in this case by the boss. That's why we understand it's important that we talk and clarify what we're talking about when we talk about sexual violence, and also to keep a little distance from all campaigns and measures a little away from the more classic stereotypes and get out of paternalism and the victimistic vision of women. And by making a clarification, I have a difference of opinion with some voicer, with the voicer of the Socialist Party. I think it's very important to point out all the progress that is being made in this matter, but I think it's right that progress is due to the feminist movement, and that's also where the BNG spokesperson pointed out. I think it was historic that the mobilizations we lived in, both when it was the Manada case, the sentence, and when it was the case of that galego festival. And I think that's where we have to put the accent and bless all the women who leave the streets, and that, unfortunately, the governments usually go after and often end up getting into the car too late. Speaking of the motion itself, we agree with all the points proposed. Furthermore, the compromise proposal seems to us to be approved, because it incorporates most of the points we propose the rest of the groups. To explain a little bit the meaning of our amendment, we want to incorporate two points, which seem very relevant to us and in which we believe that we must insist: On the one hand, as we've been saying for a long time, we believe that educational centers are fundamental agents in the fight against inequalities, which we have to take advantage of this space, which is a fundamental space for breaking up with gender roles. So we don't agree with the vision that is usually made from the Galician Union, of which we are quite self-critical, because it's always said that much is being done on equal terms in educational institutions, and we believe that much more is needed. That is why, in that sense, we intend to extend the matter of Gender Equality to all educational centres, understanding that matter is not enough as it is understood at this time, but understanding that there must be a space, even though equality obviously has to be transversal and cross all educational subjects. We believe that a specific subject should be part of the curriculum, including specific blocks of affective-sexual education. And we believe that nothing can be moved forward while, for example, segregation by sex is maintained. And whenever we talk about violence and gender and we talk about teaching — I think it must be remembered — the Galician Union must once and for all stop subsidising centres that segregate by sex, because it makes no sense that it is speaking of defending equality and that, on the other hand, it is subsidizing this type of school, which obviously perpetuates gender roles. And, on the other hand, as we have also stated and as the spokesman has already mentioned, it is a proposal that should be underway, but since we have no news, we also wanted to emphasize the need to do once and for all this Greek macro-enquisition of gender violence in quantitative and qualitative terms. I think this is important because, as I said, I think it will also help us break up with stereotypes that we all have, of course, and that I think it should also include specific aspects of sexual violence. I think this is one of the fundamental measures. And we emphasize quite well this measure because we believe that if we don't know reality it's very difficult for us to take appropriate action. And as I also said — to finish — I think it's important to end all these campaigns where they focus on fear of all issues. I think we have to end the paternalist perspective and put the woman as free women, we want to be free. Obviously, there are many inequalities, but we don't always want to be framed in that victim figure. I — as I said and will finish — hope this motion is approved. And just by making a reminder, I won't remember them because they've already been mentioned, but the data of this kind of aggression in Galicia are alarming. They have been alarming in addition to the last survey, also in the previous one; they only come up. Besides, it's chilling data, and we think they make it very clear that we can't wait any longer and that we need to take immediate action. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u133	Good afternoon. To me, Mrs. Presas, I'm surprised at your tone in speaking about this, because I think we're trying to reach a consensus, and I think that's the spirit of work against sexual violence and all sorts of violence. You want to do this a political confrontation, because I already announce to you that we are not going to enter this way of doing politics, in particular on this subject. [[Applause]] We are talking about sexual violence, which in our autonomous community, as it was said, is recognized by law as a crime, and this as gender violence. What implies that victims — let alone these catastrophic attitudes — of this sexual violence can have access to all benefits: economic aid, access to the foster home, emergency centres, participation in work insertion routes, support for their minors, psychological, social and legal care for free, because it is often the children themselves who suffer from this violence. Besides, we are the first autonomous community that we have an application on the mobile, generally designed for young people, specifically against sexual violence. He works in universities, in schools, in health care, in politics, in social and in the judiciary, and also through the Fegamp. Of course there are interinstitutional coordination and cooperation protocols that depend on the Galego Observatory against Gender Violence, with a follow-up commission to assess all the work to be done, to put proposals on the table, make recommendations and change things when they have to be changed. I'm not going to make a storyteller of everything, which is a lot, but let's not forget that with everyone's involvement and that we all add up. And that must be shown to society: we are all at one time against gender-based violence. That's how it was done with the thrust of Mr. Mariano Rajoy's government pact, where we were all political forces against male violence. Ladies and gentlemen of the Galego Nationalist Block, we don't want a report in the first two months with regard to the state pact in 2019, we want to know what the status of the state pact is now. We will ask from the People's Parliamentary Group the audience of the Secretary-General for Equality to know what is happening with this state pact. There were announcements in August, we don't know anything today. We want to know what the budget is for our autonomous community, which corresponds at the local level, which is the content where a greater investment is going to be made. Finally, we want to know what is happening with the Covenant against Gender Violence. And here we are and we're going to put everything in our hand to stop all this happening. As the Vice President of Galicia said at the last plenary session of July, the Government, whether it be the political sign, takes that subject very seriously and does everything possible to stop this happening. That's the spirit. And his motion has a lot of the People's Party, surprisingly. I could tell you that half of it is ours, because it took the measures that were adopted in our non-law proposal discussed in Commission 5 on 12 April this year. Please make a storyteller and look at a little bit. By the way, they didn't support it. But now it looks like they liked it and here they bring most of the measures. [[Applause]] Well, of course, we're going to continue to develop the whole law, and there's an increase in budgets, as we approved from the People's Party, and we're going to include in the annual follow-up report also something that was in that non-law proposal, a specific chapter on sexual assaults, related to sexual assaults; continuing to develop awareness campaigns; and prevention, as it could not be otherwise. Do we include targets from the Galician Observatory's Labour Commission against Gender Violence, all forms of gender-based violence, in all areas of action? Of course I do. You only asked in the health area to do that assessment, that follow-up, and we go further, we want you to study in all areas of action: in the work environment, in the health care system, in the education system, in the cultural field. I want to thank you for sticking to that proposal of ours and making it yours as well. That on the Galician Joint website, on its initial screen, there is a specific link on sexual violence? Of course, we add up to this. But they know that there's a resource map on that home page, that they know people where they can come to report, that there's a free online legal advice, and that there's also a free phone. They're not helpless, they have resources, and the Galician Union, the Government of Galician Union, puts everything on the table to clarify this situation. With regard to education, in educational centers, I know that consent workshops are very fashionable, sexual education work in the United States, in different universities. But the reality is that the experts at universities, researchers here in Galicia and the rest of Europe, what they tell us is that sex education embraces much more, that consent workers are part of the whole, but it's not everything. We want, and from there our proposal, to work in the educational centers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u135	...—I was ending up—with systemic violence, working on it in a cross-sectional and systemic way. And to finish, exactly like the Marea amendment, which is to make a macro-enquiry. It is also a proposal by the People's Party, it was the specific point 3 of the proposal debated on 12 April in Commission 5a. And the PSOE exactly the same, asks to make an annual report on the follow-up to sexual violence, and we have it in point 5 of our non-law proposal. It seems that it is the People's Party that marks the way forward, but it doesn't matter that it marks the way, ladies and gentlemen, the important thing is to be together on this journey. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u136	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u137	Mrs. García Míguez, you're confused that we come here to make proposals that we come here to applaud with our ears. Actually, that's not what we came to do here. I am very surprised by his tone: what is the way to do politics? Because I don't know, to give data, to open debates, to take international references. I don't know what's bothering you with BNG politics. Just like some here if we have initiatives, and that you in a decade of government are the only legislative change, the only thing they did, the only one in the matter of equality, was a proposal that I had to bring the BNG to this chamber twice. Twice to be honored to extend the aid of macho violence to twelve months a year. [[Applause]] I won't be as overpowering as you come here and say that the BNG marks nothing, because of course society out there is always much more advanced than our proposals. But I think you should take this with a little modesty or a little honesty, because you came here to lie shamelessly. I myself explained that you had made two agreements in this chamber, which also collected — and explained the spokesmen of En Marea and the Socialist Party — the question of macro-enquisition and the question of incorporating the report of violence and sexual violence. Ten years later, neither... well, it was hours before they did. But without going into that, indeed, it's a commitment — and I remind you that you don't remember — from April 11th, and they haven't done anything ever since. And since April 11 we abstained at that time because we've seen what their attitude was. There's no way with you! We bring proposals that collect tasks for the bodies that you say you create. [[Murmurs.]] Because, of course, the way the People's Party works is: every three months Mr. Rueda gives a press conference with Mrs. López Abella, and they say that they will create an agency I don't know that, to evaluate the interinstitutional protocol, then we bring here to this chamber — and I repeat today — that we have a case of Xinzo, where a victim of rape has not been treated for not being this country and for not having medical coverage — something that is very serious — and you say that it is already done, that there is nothing to be done. For it will be necessary to assess specifically whether these protocols work for sexual violence. We have seen here and demand that, if it is true that there is this control body of the state pact, because it delivers a report and we debate whether it progresses or not, because we insist — and to the thread of other debates that were already here — that the Spanish State went to Galicia a handicap on the path of equality; a handicap because ten years ago sexual violence was already macho violence in Galicia. And ten years later the state is at that point of debate. The same is true when it comes to removing the conception of violence from home. The Spanish state is in that debate ten years later. They have more ambition, look less for Madrid and more for Galicia and to see what we can do. So, as there are questions that depend on the State unfortunately, such as the attention on the judicial apparatus, which is one of the most problematic issues, and it's a fundamental reason that these complaints are stagnated, because they are stacked. And if they want to deliver the report tomorrow, hand it over, if that commission works and works. We don't have a problem with any kind of thing. But I want to explain before I'm running out of time what the People's Party doesn't want to vote on our motion, though generously we said that we'd be willing to make a point vote. But you know who hears us in that point vote because they will vote to put a specific paragraph on the website, which we don't care about, and that's why we include it, but they leave many other questions that undermine their way of doing politics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u138	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u139	For example, they don't want to work with ESO, with specific workshops in all centers; only selectively in three or four to say they comply with the LGTBI Law or that they comply with the Law of macho violence. They don't want a table where they analyze themselves with the judiciary, the police, etc., which fails in the complaint chain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u141	They don't want to monitor any other kind of issues either...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u142	Look at the clock, please. Look at the clock. Look at the clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u143	...no account of this campaign that they so much applaud about the aggressions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u144	The amendments, on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u145	So here once again it's proven. And with this ending saying that we incorporate the amendments of the Socialist Party and of En Marea—then I make it come to the transaction—and we do so in a spirit of constructive spirit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u147	But here we're going to show who votes all the proposals, that we're the opposition, working in a positive way, and who leaves the real commitments beyond the information on a website, which you are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u148	Thank you. Time's up. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the pediatric health care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u149	This motion has been tabled amendments by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block and by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u150	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. We bring to this debate today the motion resulting from the last plenary question—the truth is that with some hopelessness as a result of that interpellation; from the interpellations sometimes with certain councils it is difficult to draw some conclusions—but trying to be propossive to see if we can form some ideas that can help solve a problem that, as we said at the time, is a complex problem and a problem that sometimes has difficult solutions, sometimes a little more simple. And it is possible even — I am almost convinced — that we will move forward a little now. We haven't made much progress in recent times, but I'm sure this debate will serve us some further step forward, and that's already a step forward. We were saying at that time that this problem of Pediatrics that exists here is not only a problem in Galicia, it is not just a problem for now, but it exists, and that it is exacerbated by the inability or passivity of this government to have some kind of action in recent years. I'm sure some of the performances that could have been carried out now have more interest on this government, and, well, it's always worth celebrating in some way. There are two fundamental reasons why the situation of the absence of pediatricians or the lack of pediatricians occurs in Galicia and elsewhere too, as we say, and there are two ways to deal with it. And this is where we focus our interpellation, even though we haven't got a lot of response in any powerful case, of course, and not very satisfactory. We said that there are two fundamental reasons: the first is the stability of health personnel, because there is a serious problem of stability, and the second is at the level of training, several of the processes at the level of training, and specifically the problem of the MIR squares available. As for the employment situation, there's a problem of labour stability, there's a problem in numbers, we don't have enough professionals in the Greek health system, and there's a problem that if we have a pretty negative condition in Spain. Spain is one of the worst countries in the European Union in working conditions for its health professionals, and Galicia is one of the worst places in Spain in its conditions for health professionals. So we have one of the worst inside one of the worst. So, I think we have to be aware that we have a problem of stability and quality of our workers, in the treatment given to them from the Council, because then we have -- and then there are examples, and sometimes the professionals themselves didn't want to have even these examples -- wonderful professionals in the system, wonderful!; people who leave all their efforts. And as we always say, and unfortunately it's proven: the system works thanks to the professionals, and yet much despite their leaders. But when we have problems like this, glorious announcements come. I'm going to stop in one that we heard a few days ago, a week only: Feijoo announced twenty more pediatricians for the coming year. Mr. Feijóo probably doesn't know much about the numbers that have to do with public health. This is like announcing that next year we'll have another year. Of course, anyone can say, man, that nonsense, when one year passes, we have another year. So every year we have twenty more pediatricians, we have twenty more MIRs of Pediatrics. Announcing something you have every year is supposed to recognize that you have nothing new to announce no year. [[Applause]] Of course, always and when you really know the data about the health system, because the president announces with a fascinating slightity that we have a thousand more five hundred professionals every year, and you don't know that those thousand five hundred professionals that we have often are the same one repeated for days and days, and days and days. Maybe he's announcing that we have forty new professionals in one year in a particular square, and he doesn't realize that they're forty contracts from the same person. Which from a certain point of view may be fascinating from a certain job model, but from a different point of view we consider it an insult to professionals. But, finally, each one defends the work model he wants. About the MIR squares, the truth is there are things to celebrate. It was noticed that even the People's Party liked the change of government in Spain very much, because now at least they do things. You've been keeping quiet since Rajoy got to the government, submissively and calmly. I remember here defending the need to implement and increase MIR squares, and the answer was always: but if that's the Ministry. A hundred days ago, and in a hundred days he had already given them time to say that they would ask for more -- say, uh!, the one to ask for the same thing wasn't so much -- to say that they would ask, to complain that they didn't give them, to say that they were going to do everything they could and even submit an amendment to our proposal. In a hundred days' rule of Pedro Sánchez more than in nine years' previous government Feijóo or, at least, in the years that coincided with Rajoy in Moncloa. We rejoice in your urgency. We believe that things have to be done with planning rather than with urgency, but we rejoice in their urgency. By the way, the MIR squares. Sometimes they talk about the inheritance received, and I have some things about inheritance that I think it's right to unravel and know, because you're the same -- and I'm aware of it -- they want to say they do a lot of things. There are six more requested places for Pediatrics next year. Do you know how many files the Ministry has to solve — and that have not been resolved so far — by the Rajoy Government? More than five hundred accreditations. And I wonder what you've been doing with the Ministry of Health to leave five dozen applications waiting to be resolved. Ah! now yes, now hurry up and now we have to ask the Government of Pedro Sánchez to solve five hundred accreditations, and especially those that each one asks for. [[Applause]] By the way, those who say they are asking, because in the agreement that was taken between the Government of the State and the autonomous communities, at the meeting, in the plenary that existed — and I read there was a complaint about why no other request— do you know how many times did the Councillor of Health of Galicia complain and how many times did he ask for the urgency of this processing? Zero, zero. Clearly, there was no request for an emergency procedure. He said it, but it wasn't done. Why? Because I believe that the Council has sufficient jurists to know that this emergency procedure — which had to be said in the media requested — would, if requested, paralyze the summons almost a year, unless there is an interest, first, of paralyzing the squares, now saying that they are asked but not asked for them, and now asking for procedures to paralyze them. Let's see if we're clear: do you like having pediatricians in the system or not? Because I have the feeling, really, that you're doing your best not to exist. It makes them feel like pediatrics are left behind. Because I hear a lot of times here this is that "we have a privileged system, because elsewhere there are no pediatricians," "it's that we have to take into account that we have a luxury in the system." Listen: yes, we have a great system -- not thanks to the People's Party, but we have a great system -- don't mess it up, do things right, and don't have so many emergencies. They do things well and therefore have the commitment — and they know — of the Ministry to have more MIR squares in the year than well. Luckily, we have a Ministry that will solve this in much less time than the Rajoy Government has done. So let's see if they're able to do their homework too. And that's also what we're talking about in our proposal: doing our duties, accompanying accreditation assessments and being able to negotiate the increase in rise. Don't say it to be well, but then shut up where to ask for it. Please, a little serious. And we said that there are two ways to deal with the question: first, from management and, second, from politics. I know, politics is a horrible thing. And you come here to say: you come here to make politics. I keep waiting for someone from the People's Party to come up here someday to say what he does when he goes up here, because if he doesn't do politics... I'm waiting, uh! I'm going to tell you a secret: you're doing it too; what makes me sad is knowing you don't realize it. But it's surprising, eh!, but they're political. And it seems tremendously honest, honourable and a commitment I value. But maybe they haven't noticed yet, they'll find out a little later. When politics is made, one struggles to transform, in the sense that each one believes, or in the ideological commitment that each one has, or in the commitment of society for which each one bets. The other one is managing. Management — passing paperwork from side to side, which is what they do a lot in this council -- without transforming it stays, it stays there, all it does is persisting in problems; you perpetuate a problem. And you're doing that management. Why? So again I come to a conclusion: you use this pediatrician deficit as an excuse. How good we have a pediatrician deficit, and so we can excuse ourselves for not working and improving the system! Because it makes you feel like you're so happy with the problem you're using as an excuse. And then that leads me to ask the same question again. Since we have a pediatric plan, what did this government do in nine years to solve it? Second question, the concentration of pediatricians that the counselor here at the last interpellation said it was a vacation model, but then you have to wait to see where we have over six hundred cards, or if the distance is no more than fifteen kilometers, or at least we're going to ensure that there are two pediatricians at each reference center. By the way, let me have a look at this: it was the month of July, you were very worried to say that two pediatricians are guaranteed at every health center. Maybe we'd have saved ourselves a very serious drama if there were at least two doctors in every CAP this summer. At least! [[Applause]] We close the parenthesis because we'll have a chance to talk about it. [[Applause]] So since you think there's a problem -- because they always say so -- what have they done to solve it?, what do they have to do to solve the problem of the pediatrician deficit? [[Applause]] I know one: it's Pedro Sánchez' fault. But besides that, will you be able to do something proactive? What we bring is an association of proposals, several: one, of labour stability; another, of recruitment. Remember what we've been proposing for a long time and that you voted against, that it was to hire in a stable way — which is the boldest thing! — the pediatricians who are finishing the MIR. Because in the years of the Feijóo government, you deal at most with fifteen percent of the MIRs that end in Galicia, and so you can't adjust a system. So if that's the stable connotation, we say we have to increase it. What's the point of having 20 MIRs if when they're finished there are five at most? What's the point? You're welcome, because we lost fifteen! So, yet it's an absolutely despicable economic investment because we're investing in forming people who go away.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u153	Even if he's looking at the money issue, he's the only one they can look at. Besides, we open a table with experts, with unions, with people who know the subject, to know and have a capacity to agree on a long-term solution, which doesn't bring us this problem every two by three. And besides, by the way, since the counselor always says -- and I think that part of it is right -- that we have very few data -- we forget that it is his fault, that it does not make them easy -- that we make a report on how the situation is, with all possible data. Those reports that the People's Party usually has, but that we have them all. And we can debate things with data. Because, if not, we will continue to have the same problem: that you succeed — you believe — when you hide the information and when you leave the parliamentary debates without doing anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u155	And we believe that politics is not to succeed in a debate to be able to do anything...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u156	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u157	...but to be able to wake up to do something between us all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u158	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u159	Good afternoon. From BNG we have to show our concern because we believe that we are at risk that public health, which has cost so much to build, is reduced to witness. They're destroying public health, and this destruction, of course, we're more convinced that it's not random but rather all the opposite, which is intentional. And also in the specific case of the debate we are holding, this issue on pediatrics, because there are no pediatricians. Obviously, it's not a novelty, it's not just happened, it's not a last-minute question, because it's something that's been happening for years, and they knew this was going to happen, because they were more than told by professionals, by political organizations like BNG -- that we've seen warning about the situation and putting alternatives on the table -- and trade union organizations. And they didn't do anything to avoid it because it was precisely not to avoid this situation. He answered and responded to a premeditated strategy: if there are no pediatricians, and those who are scarce, the path is obvious: it's private to respond to that attention. If people are given a choice between seeing their children and children the professionals, doctors in general medicine, family doctors in the health center, or private specialists, who have resources, who can take their children and children to private care. And between the doors of closed faculties for our young and young people who cannot study medicine or MIR training squares that are also subject to very small squares. And this situation is not new. The Primary Care Paediatric Association has been alerting this situation for over fifteen years, with the responsibilities, of course, of the Government of the United Nations in a very clear and central government, with various governments also in a very obvious manner. For example, in 2018, signatures are being collected to warn about the need for pediatricians in health centres. And the current model of Spanish child assistance is in grave danger of extinction due to the lack of forecast, planning and poor use of resources by the administration. No effective solutions are given and our children's health is at risk. It is clear that we risk the health of children, since there are more than enough reports that determine that children who are not cared for by specialists in the subject, who are not cared for by pediatricians, have a worse quality of health, that their morbidity and even mortality is higher, that there are more than enough studies. And, of course, we're talking about the health of our children, and even there the People's Party has no problem with cutting, even in the health of our children. There's a deficit in Galicia around fifteen percent of pediatricians. And this is the situation. We are going to vote in favour of today's Socialist Party initiative. And we've tabled amendments that we believe affect issues that seem important to us. In the first, we asked for the replacement of point 4 because we believe that we must set up a working group, which is what trade union organizations are demanding. But we think we have to do it at the sectoral table, which is why we have the representatives of the workers who are represented by the sectoral table. That's where it's supposed to be. And let's put a six-month deadline to listen to it over time. And those conclusions that are soon to be made, as the Socialist Party calls for. And then we also make an amendment to paragraph 5, which is in the sense that the Socialist Party is required to make a report that is transferred to parliamentary groups, where this format of the People's Party is worth concentrating on pediatric care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u160	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u161	But what we demand in our amendment is that it be implemented, that it responds to the pediatrician ratios for children, to the distance of the centers to that new center where it concentrates, to how many numbers of reference health centers meet this new center where it concentrates, to the health centers where Pediatrics have been eliminated in recent years... that is, specific issues. And we call for the removal of that last part where it is said to be reported of the desire to maintain that format permanently, not because we do not consider it to be said — which we know is the intention of the People's Party — but because we consider the report to be descriptive of the situation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u162	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u163	So, depending on that report, which is worth making decisions, don't give the People's Party the way it's done that has to be the conclusion that there's a need for concentration. It's just a matter of political position.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u165	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u167	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. I thought, Mr. Torrado, that after the news of last week you would withdraw this motion. At the third point of the same request you to "negotiate with the Government of Spain the increase of educational squares in Pediatrics". But the publication of the 2019 MIR call, in which the six new squares requested by the Health Council do not appear to reflect a disinterest of the current Ministry of Health with the problems of Pediatrics in Galicia. The former Government studied in the Interterritorial, in a working group, the possibility of exceptionally shortening the accreditation deadlines for deficit specialities. In this context, the six new Paediatric squares for Galicia were included. And this request has just been rejected by the Ministry of Health, by the Minister of the Socialist Party, Mrs Montón, claiming insufficient squares — by the way, of course, you're not talking about masters lately, I don't know why it will be. The Ministry didn't even respond to a letter that sent him to the Health Council, it didn't. I would like to set up, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of the Socialist Group in Galicia, and insist on their government to make these six places a reality. Squares, by the way, that were requested by the Council in November 2017, there was still no government Sánchez. That is why we tabled this amendment calling for the Ministry's position to be rectified. If your commitment to the problems of Pediatrics in Galicia, Mr. Torrado, is as real as you want to see in all your interventions, you now have an opportunity to demonstrate it by supporting the amendment of the People's Party. We want you to stand by the Greeks and the Greeks and urge Mr. Pedro Sánchez to correct. By the way, he has a lot of practice, in a hundred days, the practice of rectification is consistent. But look, ladies and gentlemen, 40 percent of the new squares accredited in this call correspond to the Autonomous Community of Andalusia. Will that be a difference in the deal? Will it have something to do with or will it be similar to the ports or to the beaches of the highways, or these things? And the refusal to believe six new squares for Galicia, will it be a punishment for the Greeks and the Greeks to trust and vote for the People's Party? will it be a punishment? [[Murmurs.]] I don't think it is necessary to repeat that Galicia has a coverage of 80 percent of pediatricians for its children and children, far above the vast majority of autonomous communities — some are around 50 percent. Reiterating also that Spain is one of six countries in Europe with Pediatrics in primary care. And Mr. Torrado said that we had pediatricians left behind. A counselor from an autonomous community said: "By 2025, the pediatric primary care specialty is likely to disappear. He walks towards the model of northern Europe, where pediatricians are sucked up by family doctors", counselor of Asturias, Socialist Workers' Party Spanish. You talk repeatedly about accreditations to work abroad. Look, there are a lot of people who believed and didn't go out abroad -- for example, like many thousands more -- and a lot of people who believe what it does is to go out and complete studies and expand their specialty. And the times of the mass migration of optionals to Britain and Portugal have ended; in Britain Brexit has not helped and in Portugal the decrease in the working and economic conditions of professionals also leads to the fact that people don't leave. You mentioned that pediatricians emigrated to Britain. There's no primary pediatric care in Britain, which makes it quite difficult for these pediatricians to go there. You said it in the plenary when you questioned the councillor. And if it's true — and so it is claimed by the Pediatric Society in Primary Care — that you can modify the curriculum, and you can include in the MIR era more rotations by health centers. That's good for us. And the modification of those curricula, of course, corresponds to the central government, and we understand that it should. I would also like to know where you come from, Mr. Torrado, that Galicia is one of the worst working conditions for professionals. You report the pay tables and the contracts of the various health services and more complaints and protests, and you can see that I doubt that this statement is true. Mr. Torrado, the real problem of Pediatrics in Galicia is the shortage of professionals needed to cover the vast device that we have given ourselves, because we have a very broad device. And you never explained where I would get the pediatricians to cover those summer replacements. It is not a problem of working conditions, which can be improved — and this is being discussed at the sectoral tables — of course they can be improved, of special recruitment plans, of work tables, and of parliamentary reports, the solution must be the increase of professionals by forming all those who allow the system. But up to one point, the point that allows you to have the quality assurances that the MIR system has in Spain. We don't want you to be like in Andalusia, that this summer you've been working doctors recently licensed in specialty, in primary care, or in some other community, in which you hired supposed qualified gynecologists who worked in hospitals under the title of Family Physician. We believe that all guarantees must be given to professionals who may come from abroad or collaborate in covering at present the effects of health care, the number of professionals in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u169	I'm done. I don't think this is going to be done by stealing pediatricians from other autonomous communities as it happened in the years 2006 to 2007, and so it happened. The reorganization of this summer was an urgent solution to a timely problem, was agreed with schools and scientific societies, and the Council reiterated on several occasions that was limited to the summer period. Indeed, President Feijóo announced the intention to hire the 20 pediatricians of the MIR promotion. Look, show, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, your defense of Welsh and Germans and put it in front of Mr. Pedro Sanchez's submission to the Government supporting the amendment of the People's Party to increase immediately...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u171	...the number of graduates in pediatric training proposed by this group. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea to Mrs Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u173	Thank you, President. Coruxo in Vigo, Saiáns also in Vigo, Labañou in Coruña, Arcade, Soutomaior, Trives, Coristanco, Moaña... were multiple, the municipalities are multiple, in our country a bunch of centers that are left without professionals because for many years the duties have not been done to plan the need for professionals in our public health system. A capital irresponsibility about the right to health care and a capital irresponsibility in planning the health services that we've been discussing for years in this parliament. The two legislatures I'm taking here are already talking about the shortage of professionals. And now it culminates precisely this disaster from having not done the job for more than a decade with the absence of professionals in multiple centers of our geography. There have been several occasions in this legislation that was proposed by the various opposition groups, also our own, measures that we considered necessary in the short, medium and long term. On one occasion, we've transferred to him what those measures were. Some of them come again today to the debate here and it is precisely that the central government has moved precisely to the need for the number of news professionals and new pediatricians ad futurum, requesting to adjust these needs in the MIR programming by the Ministry, so it would be claimed that it had been discussed as soon as before in the Interterritorial Health Commission. We're talking about 2017, when we were discussing this point, a point that was voted against. We ask that the stabilisation of professionals and quality recruitment be promoted so that they remain in the country and that they do not have to leave after their residence is over. And we also ask for that then on several occasions that in case it wasn't enough if they tried to look outside the community, something that caused ridicule and laughter in the Group of the People's Party. And yet it was not so when they changed the Health Act precisely to introduce the possibility that outsiders could come to work in Galicia. Now you're protesting about the formations, but you've changed the law precisely in that element. With regard to the number of resident domestic doctors, of course, we would have liked that this year's planning had already been made by the Ministry, which would increase these pediatrics. But it is also true that it is not serious on the part of the Autonomous Government to vote against — in this case, not on the Government, but on the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party that supports it — all the initiatives that have taken so far to increase the number of residents and residents in our country, and that now they are transferring responsibility only to the Central Government. Obviously, it is the central government that has to plan, but the responsibility of the self-government is there, and the responsibility of the parliamentary group that voted for all these years against it is obvious that too. The realities and needs do not change depending on the color of the government. So to move here a debate about "the most" is deeply irresponsible and plays with the health of the children and the children of Greece. As for the second point, which is the most important thing for us, and there was now talk of stability. It is clear that they do not report the unions, report the professional schools and report the medical and medical residents themselves. On several occasions it was requested to stabilize professionals, quality contracts. He never fulfilled that and voted against it all the time. Of the MIRs, at least of the data we have on those who offer professional schools, only those we know come out every year, about eleven percent march, which we know, that we think it's probably a lot more. If you add up the number of residents who end up every year plus those who leave out of the data they provide, the reality is, when you're training less than we need to replace the retirements we have in the system, people go because contracts are three weeks, and so you can't live, you can't work and you can't offer quality healthcare. Obviously, that's why they're going. And they were specifically asking for medical schools to recruit at least six months. We understand that even that's not even the desirable, they should be longer, because they don't. What scares us is that during all these years we are voting against the proposals, that the resolution is to do absolutely nothing, that we have to wait till July so that the idea of star is to redistribute the existing doctors and doctors, and that then on August 2nd, the President of the Board is going out saying that they will come to pediatricians, who will hire them. It's an irresponsibility such that, of course, it does not only offer rejection, but it's requested that the Council should start working on planning in the medium and long term. And I'm done because I don't have time. We are going to support this initiative, which generally coincides more or less. And he was talking about Mr. Torrado of the vacation model, of that proposal that the People's Party made. I think the vacation model was that of the Health Council because practically a decade without doing anything to plan the need for pediatricians.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor on the motion's author group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u175	Thank you, President. Let's see if we can explain it well. Six Paediatric Squares... By the way, I'm going to start more from the beginning. How can you talk about aggravating? Didn't MIR's family doctor square increase then? Yeah, why? Because it's done over time, it's done well and it's done long ago, nobody's been invented at the last hour. That you invented the Paediatric squares at the last hour and that's why they don't come in on time. Why? Because there was an incapacitated and useless government, and he has more than five files waiting to settle. And, of course, you ask the Government of Pedro Sánchez in 100 days to resolve the five MIR credentials of accreditation that were pending from the Rajoy Government. [[Applause]] Look, I understand that Mrs. Dolors Monserrat was busy in other things, she was well, she was busy in other things. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But they left a piece of paper. Please! And you got there now and you shut up, that you here can say what you want, but the councilman shut up at the meeting. Why? Because you can lengthen this story by saying that there was an extraordinary solution. By the way, they know that if the solution is extraordinary it is because they haven't done things through the ordinary process, if it's extraordinary it's because it's strange. If they want that extraordinary process, they make it almost impossible for the award of squares for almost a year, because we have to stop to do that process. You can lie whatever you want. By the way, I'm going to give you one more point: if you asked for those six in November and you had them so clear, why did Mr. Feijó announce 20 pediatricians in September, not twenty-six? Because he announced twenty pediatricians and not twenty-six. Well, it's true, they're giving me the reason: Mr. Feijóo has no idea how the system works. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But at least tell him not to kick, he's going to announce labs of bivalves around there when there's not even a candidacy. [[Applause]] By the way, how can you tell me that the solution is not in us from outside? But if Mr. Feijóo said that they would come from outside that we paid them to work in the system. It must be that the position of the People's Party is against Mr. Feijóo and says the solution is not to come from outside. Deal with it! We can debate things, but we can debate them one position and the opposite... I like to argue a lot, but at least agree, have a single criterion, see if we're capable. Because it is impossible to hold your position today to say one thing and Mr. Feijóo to say another. But, well, you hold every thing that's like this. Actually, it's quiet, man, if I can say things, it's not happening either. [[Murmurs.]] There's actually more interesting things. If the problem isn't that they're leaving, where are the 20 MIRs entering every year in Pediatrics? When they're done, do they all meet? No, no, no, no. So, what's going on, you evaporate, do you diffuse in the air? No, they're leaving. Since 2012 more than 20,000 applications to qualify for foreign employment in this country, more than 20,000. There have never been so many. But you mean you don't go professional? By the way, I didn't say they were pediatricians in Britain, but if I said they were very professional, they were going. And if you don't know it, it'll be because some who know you stay, some who know you. But you should listen to those who have to go, eh! [[Applause]] We make a proposal, and with this I finish and answer the amendments. You don't have to challenge us, Mr. Núñez, about our position. You want to recrive someone to get out of the way, but let's go essentially. Do you want to suggest that we demand that accreditations be accelerated? Okay, no problem. I'm going to propose this transaction: we ask the Government of Spain to speed up the accreditations. Now, don't make me a trick. Don't change five proposals for one who accuses Pedro Sanchez. I'm telling them we agree, but let's go next door to do the duties of the Galician Union, which some have to do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u176	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u177	...for example, that they have sufficient means, college and hospitals. For example, there's a job plan and a stabilisation plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u179	...and then we agree. You tell me not to be submissive. I give him back the question: I agree, and our group is willing to vote in favour of telling the Government to speed up the accreditations. Do you agree to vote for something that exaggerates the Government of Galicia that stabilizes professionals?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u181	Because then we're going to see who's being submitted, who's shut up and who has to do the ball — as you say — and who's in defense of pediatricians and the system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u182	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u183	We do. I want to know what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. G.P. motion. of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the environmental impact of the copper mining
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u185	This motion was tabled as an amendment by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Galicia and by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz, through his spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Amendment of amendment.The text of point 2 of the motion should be replaced by the following:"Required a new plan to restore the Touro-O Pino mine which replaces the year 2002, guaranteeing the financing of 100% by the concessionary company and which includes all affected by the previous mining activity. Santiago de Compostela, September 10, 2018."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of her colleague Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, through her spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the House's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Amendment of amendment.The text of point 8 of the motion should be replaced by the following:"8) Once all preceptive reports have been received by the Government, to strictly and scrupulously comply with mining regulations and legal environmental criteria, in order to complete the processing of the proceedings of the San Rafael and Atalaya Mining mine concession project, in the Towns of Touro and O Pino.")]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u186	To formulate the motion, Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u187	Good afternoon. After two months we're here again to talk about the Touro mine. I hope this is the last and last time we talk about this. The advisor himself, in response to our interpellation, made it clear that, as he is -- as he says from the point of view -- this project is not viable. Then he also wanted to make a small demand saying that all the requirements requested by the company in all reports, negative to the vast majority, both the administrative reports and the reports of all alleged entities — neighbouring entities, environmental entities, municipalities, I think they are more than forty municipalities, two provincial deputies — would give the company time to respond to these allegations. The truth is, for us reports are so powerful and the truth is that the situation they reflect is such that it doesn't seem possible that they can be modified. Two months have passed, so we hope that after two months, after all the reports, today we can suggest that the Galician Parliament here will refer to what is going to be the death record of this project, totally insatiable to a very important part of Galician territory, and essentially to the basins of the Ulla and the Arousa River. Then the councillor accused us of demagogy, of manipulation by making assessments. He said that we couldn't come here to make assessments, that that's what technicians have to do, that politicians can't do the evaluations, in any case, to provide more information and give specific data. We provide concrete data from all reports. And besides, if we can't make valuations, I don't know what we're doing here! He also claimed that the Government of the Union is always in defense of the interests of the Greeks acting with responsibility. We find no greater responsibility than saying not definitely to this project. Then he also mentioned that it will not be approved if it is not compliant with the regulations. Since it's obvious by analyzing all reports and allegations that it is not, we wonder when the final folder will be given to this project. But we're going further, and we're going to make concrete proposals for amendments to the Galician Mining Management Act, which the councillor has repeatedly suggested was a law made by us. Well, we weren't here at the time, but I imagine you were referring to the Socialist Party and the BNG. But he also said I eluded data. He eluded that in successive accompanying laws they completely distorted that law; and not only in the accompanying laws; in the law of predation of Galicia already destroyed it completely and absolutely. He got away too. That is why, and bearing in mind that, as we have already noted, this project would mortgage a future sustainable development of Galicia, based on a high-quality environment, and in addition to what countries and regions with more future of the European Union and the rest of the world, we are going to propose to the Galician Parliament measures that go on a number of lines. On the one hand, to avoid the project that is going to destroy, with many odds, with an absolutely inexorable risk, very important areas of the Greek territory, and, on the other hand, to take advantage of the experience that is already in the current Touro mine, so that, by taking advantage of what we all know as a circular economy, not only do we lose work of the current ones at that time, but these jobs multiply, but they multiply by restoring, not laying the foundations for greater destruction of the territory and greater doubt of the future possibilities of all these areas. That's why we proposed in this motion to rectify and optimize their functions of research, control and sanctions on the contaminant consequences of the insufficient control and intensity of restoration of the Touro-O Pino mine by the current mine rights tenor. To promote and budget, in addition to the fundamental contribution of the mine rights tenor, from the waters of Galicia and the Environmental Council, a new plan of restoration of the Touro-O Pino mine which replaces the year 2002, which has proved clearly insufficient. To include as stakeholders in the drafting of the plan referred to in paragraph 2 the neighbouring platforms of the municipalities concerned, from Touro and O Pino to all the banks of the Ulla River and the Arousa River; in the same way, naturalist and ecologicalist associations, such as Adega, Galician Society of Natural History, etc. Even so, to include in the drafting of the plan referred to in paragraph 2 the academic institutions of the Greek universities concerned with environmental matters, ensuring that the experts and experts involved do not have any personal, family or business relationship with the mining rights company or with their participating companies. To ensure that in contracts arising from the actions determined by the new restoration plan, workers and employees of the companies currently operating in the mining area are given priority as they are the best aware of the situation. This would not only guarantee their jobs, it could increase them significantly. To act with transparency in the demands for information in this and the rest of the mining projects and to ban obstructive practices denounced by environmental groups and reflected even in judicial judgments. To include the Council of the Sea between the institutions with the obligation to draw up preliminary reports in all procedures for the authorisation of mining operations and, in particular, in the Toro-O Pino mine. Finally, once all preceptive reports have been received by the Galician Board, most of them are very critical to the project, to close the process of authorization and ditamine a negative environmental assessment, and therefore to reject definitively the copper mining project of the company Copper San Rafael and Atalaya Mining, in Touro and O Pino, because it is environmentally dangerous and for the health of people and because it is socially, environmentally and economically unsustainable. There is not much more to talk about — as we said at the time of the interrogation — the current situation of all the aquifers in the area. We also comment — we will not repeat it, because there is no time — all the allegations of all the administrations themselves, of the Council of Galicia, of the Galician Society of Natural History, of Adega, of the neighbours of Touro, of the neighbouring municipalities of the Ulla basin and of the municipalities of the Arousa River and of the Deputies. That's why we demand that the process be completed. The counselor said we wanted to break the law. No, no, no, no. We want the law to be respected and the law to be complied with now, not the law to be arranged to see if the company can circumvent the law. That's what can't be. And we also want to make it clear, because the counselor also questioned it, our position on mining policy. We are not against mining, we are against speculative mass megaminery, the one that tries to exploit a lie in a super intensive manner, in the shortest possible time — as it is said, as it is always spoken in the mining field, of "taking the money and running, before there are problems" — which does not develop the complete productive cycle, but is merely extractive and predatory. And all of this can also be applied to other sectors such as forestry or energy, curiously the three sectors where the legislative amendments to the Galician Predation Law that you approved last year are focused on. You can also develop a sustainable mining, and you can also develop from places where there were unsustainable mining exploits, circular economics jobs, restoration jobs, where we believe you should collaborate with the Galician Union. Obviously, you could ask the current tenor of miners' rights to assume for yourself all the work to be done, but that's clearly impossible. Given the economic results of these companies, we don't think they can be asked to do that. What took all the huge benefit was the Tinto River, left him dead with the Government of Galicia's platoon. So that's why we think now the Government of Galicia also has to participate and have to collaborate with the companies currently established in the places where the previous copper mine was to actually transform a degraded area into an area that could be an example of restoration, ecology and the environment, as is being done in all regions, for example, in France that were former coal farms. They study the processes, especially in the northern part of France, which is emblematic of how they have transformed completely degraded areas of coal ore and copper into emblematic areas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u188	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u189	...in the environment, in business development, in employment development, fully compatible with the rest of the traditional activities in these areas. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal Vidal. You have the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u191	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. It's necessary, to talk about the Touro mine and its environmental problem, to visit you with time and serenity. It's not easy. You come to think a lot of things, because there you can see the great wound made in the earth's code in depth and height. Deep down, because it was a mine open to the sky and the cuts are of enormous dimensions; in height, because the scraps are true mountains of sterile acid that allow acidic and contaminant waters to flow. But this wasn't enough, and at this point it's a store of urban and industrial muds of all kinds of waste without cataloguing and without control. It is almost — allow me — an uncontrolled dump, and later they will understand why I say it. One can find a mussel shell, ashes of God's knowledge where, debris of works... everything. The current concessionaire has turned the former mine space into a macro-green under the excuse of restoration. Because if we exclude the use of that which some call technosoles — and many of us question it — as elements that repair something — and we better claim that they help to contaminate something more and complete the spills, it is not restoration. Well, that's it. Apart from the technosols, the performance that was carried out there was to aggravate the impact that the mine had left. The current concessionaire company eliminated the perimeter ferry and the pumps recirculating the contaminated water from the old sterile raft, thus causing the contamination of the Portapego River, which during the mining activity had freed itself from the contamination. Today it's a brown river, with a total lack of life, and it crosses the village of Touro. There are, therefore, two responsibilities: one, which derives from the mining activity, which ended in 1986; and another, from the activities of the current dealership. At all this the German Government has been — and more is — missing. Were there any inspections, any sanctions proposals, or, instead, was there a conference interested — let's say — an election interest? The people of Touro know this, and the surroundings too. We know it well when you take a bath truck a few miles ahead of you to see certain liquids and concentrate perfumes that make the cataracts blessed. We already know that the PP's environmental policy is to spread pollution as much as possible, so that it can be seen as less. In this — you must recognize it — they try to be as equal as possible. But they go through the rule of law and common sense, they find out that, as dirt is not seen, even if it smells, even though it stinks, sometimes one ends up getting used to it. By the way, the adviser — as the spokesman of En Marea said — stated in that Chamber, before the holidays, that the reopening project in the terms in which it was presented would not go forward. But a few days ago, in the Town Hall of Cruces, individuals were surprised, with marked cars, making notes, illegally and without permission, out of the mine concession territory. The struggle is unequal, but it exists. Much must be the mineral wealth there is. The truth — what is wrong with you, PP gentlemen — is that there are a lot of vigilant citizens who are not willing to consent to policy-making macromining. That's good news. What we're dealing with right now in this wicked, in this breath, is to move, to walk. It is mandatory for administrators and administrators to enforce and comply with the laws. Restoration is a legal requirement. This is what we are asking for in this motion by En Marea, but we would like you to accept the amendment that we proposed from BNG to point 2, which has two aspects. On the one hand, it doesn't seem to us that anyone who earns an activity and works a whim receives as a prize a restoration with public participation of an accomplice government in the breaches of legality. It's not fair that a priori we pay among all of us, with money from all of us, the disadvantaged, the barbarities committed by Rio Tinto and by the current company, which, as they have explained, has responsibility. A second aspect is the raft of Algumil and the Portapego River, which should enter any restoration project but which are now out of the concession lands. We believe he won't accept our amendment. Bad negotiation when the whole initiative is given to those who have harmed us for their own good. Let's put the batteries on. It's a debt pending with Bullo, with the Ulla cup, with the rhino and with the Galician society in general. So be it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas Cruz. By the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Vilán Lorenzo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u193	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all Members and Members. We agree with the motion presented by En Marea, but we have made an amendment to the eighth point. But before we talk about our amendment to this eighth point, I think we understand that it is necessary to make clear a number of issues. The first is that for just over a hundred days in Spain we have a government that is, clearly, vocationally ecological. There is a Ministry for the Ecological Transition, and the minister, who has made it clear that this ecological transition is essential, he faces, not as the environmental advisor, who has been hiding all summer; we don't know where it was when the fires of the winter's natural park appeared, and we don't know where it is today, because this is an environmental problem that, in addition to the industry's point of view, worries, it is worrying, and maybe it's preparing that triumphal landing in the Coruña, which seems to be more complicated than she predicted at a given time. It doesn't seem like you care about the allocation of water resources in Galicia that are affected, because in a response from the Council regarding the Touro mine that is recognized. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo shows a document.]] Well, he's not. We don't know where he is, but he's not, and where he's been and he's not. The second question is that in this land, as I said, water resources are affected, because there is an exploitation of old copper and therefore they have caused damage to the environment. This water impact is the maximum exponent of these damage. And we believe that the Government should already be obliged to eliminate the pollution that exists in the waters of the channels that flow around the mine in the old quarry. The Royal Decree of 2009 on the Waste Management of Extractive Industries and the Protection and Rehabilitation of Spaces that are affected by mining activities, for example, would apply. That's why you always come here and feel that you can comply with law, because that's one of the rules you could apply. They are affected by the watercourses by the old exploitation and by what is being done in the new one. And so that's how, according to this answer, in December, one of Galicia's rafts and waters was found out through several complaints. What was affected was the Brandelos River, the Brandelos River, which flows into the Ulla River, the Ulla River that leads into the Arousa River. Well, according to the Council, they found out by chance, in particular, literally: "the incident was reflected in the press and in Parliament, but it was not communicated to this board." And then they started the inspection procedure on February 23, two months later. Well, it's very good that you take two months to find out by the press or by complaints from individuals. That's what I'd better not have counseling for. [[Applause]] Affected by watercourses, there is no detailed study for this new project of the new Touro mine, specifically on the river Ulla; as previously said, the affected is the river Brandelos, which leads to the river Ulla. Neither is the process of debugging greener water in detail, nor how to download the drainage system. There's no underground water control plan, and that means that if it should also be the Sea Councillory put in this will. The third question is that the Government should require a detailed environmental monitoring plan, which is not there either. And the fourth question is that I should demand a sufficient financial guarantee. We always ask for it because the law says so, because there are two Community directives that oblige us and because we know that exploiting companies often have very short-term civil liability insurance, which cannot cover the costs in cases of damage and accidents. And the examples are crowds; I'm not going to talk about the Aznalcollar mine, for example. And the last question is that the Government has to comply with the Law of 2008. Considering all this, our amendment goes precisely because we believe that, after the preliminary reports, it is essential, strictly and scrupulously, to comply with the mining regulations and the environmental criteria of the ones I spoke about before and thus finalise by the Government the processing of the procedure of the San Rafael and Atalaya Mining mining concession project. We can't ask anyone to prevarice, we have to ask that the law be observed from here, exclusively; when all reports come, that the law be complied with and therefore you apply all these rules, of which I spoke before, that you are not using. We hope that our amendment will be accepted and, if not, we ask the motion's group to allow us to vote on points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u195	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you, President. In the same way that in television channels the main programs and series return to the TV grid after the holiday break, today also returns to this House the "No to the Bull Mine" series, which returns with its chapter number 32, with the same main actors and some other new argument, but substantially the same: the refusal to the mining sector in Galicia. In previous seasons the protagonists had been struggling with each other to see who was more opposed to this project, thinking that they could achieve political revenues—legistimate—even if they had to contradict each other over and over again, to miss the truth, to alarm society, to ask for law enforcement or to try to cut democratic rights. Mr. Casal, don't deny BNG. Most of your group's colleagues come from nationalism. So you too can feel co-authors, along with the two-party government, along with the Socialist Party, the Galician Mining Law, of which you felt very proud by granting more than 100 research and forty-three operating permits. But what's changed? Once the Greeks took them out of the Government, they began their transition to the ideological trench and oppose all the projects. It is true that the PSOE maintains a certain fairness with a continuous "yes, but it does not amend," but the BNG, next to the Tides, anything that does not. Well — I have to be honest — I will correct — something fashionable in today's politics — and clarify that not all mine projects. I'm going to set an example, although it's another type of project, but, ladies and gentlemen, do you know where Europe's only cotton mine is?; repeat: Europe's only coltan mine? In Viana do Bolo! [[Murmurs.]] And who rules there? The BNG, although he didn't win the elections. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Rivas, if we were like you, how many things could we tell you? Man, Mr. Rivas, man, if I can't... [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u196	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u197	If we were like you, how many things could we tell them? For example, they accuse them of complicating with the war in the Congo, or, for example, of wanting to do business with the so-called "death mine." [[Murmurs.]] Well, no, we're not the same, and, if the company introduced the project and met all the legal and environmental standards, it seems good to us that it comes to Galicia, that Ourense comes to create jobs and wealth in rural areas, as well as the nationalist mayor also celebrates it, with the creation of fifty jobs. Mr. Casal, I'm not coming out of my wonder. With this motion In Marea wants to cut down democratic rights and insist that the Prevarious Union and that it does not allow the Touro mining project, like anyone else, if through the law that you yourself did in 2008. Mr Rivas, they continue to deny the ongoing work of active surveillance in the river channels — now also the Socialist Party's Member — which surround the former Touro mine. Galician waters handle all the complaints and open two file sanctioners for spills. But at the same time, I have to make it absolutely clear that pollution in the Ulla River has not been appreciated, it has been strictly linked to the streams around the farm, and the analysts have ruled out that this condition has reached the Ulla River. As a novelty, Mr. Casal, he now asks for a new restoration plan; but not only that, but that, in addition, he pays the board. That is, at this point in which we are evaluating a project that counts with a concrete restoration plan, which, if carried out, would pay it to the company, you don't want it to be studied or dictated and ask that it pay another to Galician Union. What a disincentive! And what about the activity of the current company that has permission to extract the arids? They also ask that this new plan be done by experts, but I suppose these experts should be elected by you and say what you want, because if you don't, they wouldn't. By the way, they also say that they have no personal or familiar relationship with the company. I don't know what you mean by that, but it was unfortunate that this proposal you hadn't told her in the Town Hall of Santiago for that poetry workshop or on the Coruña floor for the Marea signatories. Then he could have put his proposal in line. The most striking reference they make is that of the workers. First, you want to throw them out, leave them out of work and not create new jobs, but, yes, the Union hires them for the execution of the restoration plan. Hey! How? Dealing with your fingers? But do you really think the hunt they're proposing? [[Murmurs.]] Regarding the obligation of the sea councillor, who reports on all mining projects — another very sensible thing — I thought, "Hey, if you have to report on all those projects, I don't know what to say about mining projects in Valdeorras or south of Lugo. But, well, that you have to report, that's right, and say what you want, because if you don't, it won't be worth it either. Point 8 is the most democratic and respectful of the law and independence of powers, hey!: that if the Council of Galicia receives the reports — which we no longer wanted to have done, but well— close the procedure, do not allow allegations to be made, to be answered and, if so, to be cured, and directly reject the project. But do you realize the gravity of what you're proposing? But are we crazy, Mr. Casal? We're not going to override the law on corporate implementation. And tell the truth: this project is not being processed by the Business Implementation Act.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u198	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u199	Where you rule, you have adopted similar laws and this law is facilitating the arrival of new businesses and the incorporation of new sectors, which means the creation of job wealth. Mr. Casal, you've already set the example of "get the money and run." I don't think it's you -- look a little bit for yourself -- what should really set this example of "get the money and run." I'm done. Mr. Casal and the gentlemen on the left, what we want is to continue to comply with the law and continue the administrative processing of this mining project like any other one and transmit a message of tranquility again, because this project will never be authorized if it does not meet all the legal, technical and environmental requirements. And, as the Industry Councillor at parliamentary headquarters said, as the project was presented, it's not viable. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u200	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello. Author of the motion group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u201	The first, Mr President, is a matter of order. Mr. Blanco Paradelo made a personal insinuation which he did not carry out, left it there. Concrete it, Mr. Blanco Paradelo! Why can't I personally talk about "get the money and run"? Say it and we'll see where we're going to debate that claim of yours. Because this is intolerable, that charges are made like this by throwing them out of the air. Concrete, Mr. Blanco Paradelo, concrete! and, if not, shut up. No, I'm not threatening, I'm explaining a political indecency, that's what I'm explaining. [[Mr. Blanco Paradelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] And whenever we want to talk about it, let's talk about it! That's the way to beat it! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Indeed, we must comply with the law; of course, we must comply with the law, but for something we are here too. We're going to have political positions, we're going to have positions and effective control mechanisms of what the Government does. And we're also going to have country projects, country projects that, of course, with everything we hear, Mr Paradelo, are totally contradictory and contrary to what the People's Group thinks. And because we have a country project, that's why we can talk about that, in the light of all the reports, in the light of all the allegations, this project is inadmissible. And that's why we ask the Galician Union, in a completely solvent way, that we have the capacity, the definitive closure of this project. Because the objectives of the law make it clear, because you talk about the law but then you don't quote the law. It defines the content of the monitoring of mine rights, its compatibility with other uses or uses, and may limit or condition the exercise of mine rights for environmental, urban or other reasons of their competence. Is there no incompatibility here with other environmental, urban and economic uses in all affected areas? But well... The law provides for financial guarantees, and you want to delete these financial guarantees, as is well reflected in the law of depredation. Guidance criteria for the concession, the establishment of bases for the development of a sustainable mining. The harmonization of extractive activity with the rest of the land uses within the framework of territorial, agricultural and environmental management. Ordered and sustainable use of mine resources in a manner compatible with the protection of the natural environment and cultural heritage, etc., etc. I can read fourteen points of this type and the current project does not meet any of the principles of the law. That's why we can ask, we are on our right to ask that this project be closed as soon as possible. And then, that's why we won't accept the Socialist Party's amendment, because our proposal is not to leave the subject indefinitely in the hands of the government to comply with the law. Because we already have many examples today with many wind farms that are being established in areas of special landscape protection, etc. That is why we clearly ask that the process be closed. And then, by commenting on BNG's amendment, we think that we have to be practical and that we have to be pragmatic. The possibilities of today's companies that have the right to completely restore the evil done by Riotinto Minera, in our view, are impossible. We could be satisfied saying they fix it when we know it's unfeasible. That's why we want you to participate in the Union, but not that you pay the Union -- as Mr. Blanco Paradelo said, distorting what I said -- but participating in the Union, that you control the Union... No, I'm saying that with the participation of the Board, with the participation of the Board, but with the fundamental participation of the law firm. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Read the proposition well. [[Murmurs.]] I've wasted time on the first point of order, let me at least... I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u202	Look at the weather, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u203	And that's basically why we want him to be restored. And we didn't have any illegality to give priority to the workers, but it's obvious that the people who are working there have more experience than anyone else. And all these clauses can be incorporated into the recovery plan, as is done in many cases. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u204	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u205	We turn to motion votes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u206	Yes, Mrs. Vilan, what do you want the word for? [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Well, now we'll say it when we get to that motion. We are currently voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to sexual violence. There's a transaction proposal that brings me here, which is very long. As the groups know it, all groups know this transaction proposal, so we put this transaction proposal to the vote. [[Mrs. García Míguez utters words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Mrs. García Míguez? Does he ask for a point of order? Do you accept the point-by-point vote, Mrs Presas? I'm sorry, I don't listen. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Do you accept voting on points of this transaction? [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos: Yes]] So, can you separate what are the points you ask them to separate? Give Mrs. Míguez a voice; if not, I don't understand anything. Give a voice to Mrs. García Míguez's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u207	The points 1, 4, 6, 7, 9 and 10...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u208	Excuse me, the points...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u209	1, 4, 6, 7, 9 and 10 on the one hand, and on the other hand, 2, 3, 5 and 8.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u210	So we vote, first, points 1, 4, 7, 9 and 10... Excuse me...? I don't hear anything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's see if anyone can tell me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u211	Repeat: 1, 4, 6, 7, 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u212	Okay. Points 1, 4, 6, 7, 9 and 10. Let us vote on these points. Vote of points 1, 4, 6, 7, 9 and 10 of the transactioned text on the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos, on the actions that must be carried out by the German Government in relation to sexual violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. Paragraphs 1, 4, 6, 7, 9 and 10 of this motion are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u213	Can we vote the rest of the points together, or should we split some more? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote the rest of the points. Vote of points 2, 3, 5 and 8 of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos, on the actions that must be carried out by the German Government in relation to sexual violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. Points 2, 3, 5 and 8 of this transactional text are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u214	We are now voting on the motion by the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Torrado, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to pediatric health care. There's a transaction proposal that also brought me here. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela asks for the word.]] Yes, Mr. Torrado, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u215	Yes, the compromise proposal was brought to the groups, of which we all have a challenge except the People's Party. I don't know if there was no coverage in the room, but he couldn't give us an answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u216	We're going to find out now with the vote. So we propose the vote on this transaction, which is known to all groups. We vote for the transaction. There's a deal with BNG. You've already spoken. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's a transaction proposal. This transaction is empty. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to pediatric health care. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. The compromise text of this motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u217	Finally, we voted for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the environmental impact of the copper mining. [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Do you accept a point vote? And can you tell me which points are asked to split? The 2nd and then the rest of the points. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Okay. [[Murmurs.]] Can 2 and 8 go together? So you have to ask everything, it's like at school, you have to ask everything; otherwise, there may be a mistake. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So we start with number two, we vote point two. Vote of point 2 of the G.P. Motion. Mr de In Marea, on the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the environmental impact of the copper mining. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 24 votes against, 37 abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. Point 2 of this motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u218	We are now voting on point 8. We vote. Vote of point 8 of the G.P. motion. Mr de In Marea, on the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the environmental impact of the copper mining. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 37; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. Point 8 of this motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u219	And now we're voting on the rest of the points. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. in Marea, on the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and three other Members, with the exception of points 2 and 8, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the environmental impact of the copper mining. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u220	And now, after the votes, open the doors, please. We continue with point five, proposals not of law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in connection with the protocol signed on 18 April 2018 with the Ministry of Development, Ports of the State and the Harbour Authority on the land of the port of Coruña, the revision of the 2004 port agreements and the proposal of the Council of the Coruña on this matter
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u221	This motion for a non-law tabled the following amendments: a self-amendment by En Marea's own group, an amendment by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego and an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u222	Mr Sánchez has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u223	Good afternoon, everyone. Let the People's Party facilitate the creation of a research commission to know what happened in the Navy and take action for the future is something positive in this accident where there were 467 affected. But I want to say that it is very contrasting with the blockade, since July 2013, of the establishment of an Alvia accident investigation commission, in which there were 81 deaths. The People's Party systematically, both here and in Madrid, blocked and tried to block the investigation commission on this accident, far more seriously unfortunately. That contrast, to me, is the example of what political action should not be, that political action that is guided by partisan criteria and opportunism that characterizes the People's Party, as we are also looking at the subject that we are going to deal with. The agreement we intend to adopt with the self-amendment registered is as follows — we want to start with it: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to: 1. To require from the Government of Spain equal treatment and consideration between the different Portuguese port authorities in relation to the agreed to the Valencia Consortium 2007 in terms of the adoption of the budgetary and regulatory measures for the purpose of State financing and the assumption by the State of the debts already incurred or managed by the port authorities for the execution of infrastructures of general interest on port land or necessary for their operation, connectivity and competitiveness. 2. With regard to the situation of the Port Authority of Coruña, and given its special relevance in terms of debt and of the provisions for its depreciation in relation both the sale of land from its maritime-port port-port facility: first, to urge the Government of the State to grant the loan granted by Ports of the State to the Port Authority of Coruña for the construction of the foreign port of Punta Langosteira, or, if applicable, to grant the equivalent economic aids or measures arising from the conclusion of the February Agreement of 2004; first, to urge the Government of the State to grant the loan granted by Ports of the State to the Port of Coruña port Authority for the construction of the foreign port of Ponta Langosteira for the construction of the supply of foreign port of Ponta Langosteira, or, if applicable, to grant the equivalent economic aid equivalent economic aid or the measures arising in any case, in order to negotiate an actual and global state of cooperation protocol, leaving without effect of April 2018, by providing for this purpose the use of the use of the use of the role of the role of the role of the acts and policy of the role of the role of the role of the role of the Port of the Port of the Port of the Port of the Port of the Port of the Port of the Port of the Port of the Port of Coruaria of the Port of the Port of Cor which, and budget for the use of Coruaria for the operation for the operation for the operation for the operation for the operation for the operation for the operation, namely of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of Punta and budget for the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of Punta of Punta of Punta and of Punta for the operation of Punta for the operation of Punta for the operation of Punta for the operation of Punta, namely, namely, namely, namely, namely and forecast for the operation of its in 2019 for the construction of its..; second and forecast for the construction for the construction of its.; second, namely, namely, namely, namely, namely, namely for the construction for the construction for the construction 2019 for the construction In the same way, urge the set of competent administrations and entities to increase efforts in the full operation, connectivity and international promotion of the external port. 3. To request, through its representatives in the councils of the administrations of the Portuguese port authorities, the holding of each of its extraordinary boards of administration to formally address the Ministry of Development and Ports of the State with the objective of requesting the set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Agreement. 4. And, finally, transfer this agreement to the Ministry of Development, State ports, port authorities of general interest of the State in Galicia, Adif, as well as to the General Courts of the State and to the parliamentary groups of Congress and Senate." And why do we bring this proposal and why do we make this self-amendment? Because recently the Government of the State, within the framework of the negotiations of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, has assumed the demand of the Autonomous Government of Valencia to pardon the debt of EUR 350 million from the Valencia Consortium 2007, derived from the organization of the Copa América, Formula 1 and facilities for nautical sports and formalized in a loan from the ICO. This pardon to the Valencia Consorcio 2007 without being accompanied by an analogous action in Galicia was a comparative harm that cannot be tolerated. Much more when, in this example of the Coruña, debt to State ports — a loan of EUR 200 million that was granted in July 2011 — it was the object of the execution of a port infrastructure work from a declared port of general interest of the State, not in "Cops America", in "Formulas 1" or in other facets that the People's Party had done for years in Valencia. And an analogous performance in Galicia means meeting the different demands of the Greek ports, and also, in particular, where debt is a problem for the future of the city, as is the case with the Coruña. It would be good to ask, before continuing with this issue, what did the Galician Government, the Galician Government, during these years of the People's Party's Government in Madrid, in relation to the Greek ports. Basically neglect the infrastructure needs, fail to meet your funding needs and, in the case of the Crown, pull for privatization of the coastline. What did you do about the situation of the Harbour Authority of the Crown? For basically defending the privatization of the Coruña coast still above not to solve the serious problem of the Harbour Authority's debt. But the People's Party, which opposed itself with nails and teeth to a solution for this debt, seems to have changed its mind and now supports forgiveness — surely to erode the Government of the State —, when, with Mariano Rajoy as president, he never showed any interest, he had no initiative, to seek a solution that was not privatization and speculation on the land of the port to pay off part of the debt. As I said before, it seems an example of political opportunism or at least political incoherence. But welcome, welcome, even if it's for opportunism. Because, in any case, the People's Party in this matter is only right when it corrects. In the Coruña it was only right when it was rectification, because — they have to assume once and for all — such is the cry in the city of Coruña for maintaining public ownership of these lands, why these lands serve citizenship and why citizenship decides what to do in those lands for the future, that no one who wants to paint anything in the local politics of the city can continue to defend speculation with the lands of the Coruña coast. And the Socialist Party, now in the Central Government, has the opportunity to define its position on the side of the general interest. We'll see. For now there is no clear commitment in this regard. We do not understand that no Greek force can accept, after the Valencia agreement, that there is no similar deal in Galicia, with flexibility or the formulas that may be — because situations may not be exactly the same — but a similar deal. And the Galician Socialist Party has to define itself in a country matter. There are demands that must be met, historical demands that must be met, such as railway connections, their financing, both in Vigo and in Ferrol or La Coruña, various infrastructures or the situation of the very important debt in the city of Coruña — the Harbour Authority of Coruña, pardon. In this case, the decisions taken in the state bodies, and in such a case outside the citizenship of the Crown, put at risk the opportunity that might be the release of the harbour spaces once they are moved to the outer port. The future of the city and the freedom of decision-making of citizenship are put in danger on those land with protocols such as the one signed by Mr Feijóo in April behind the city, from behind the local government of the Crown, when he says — in addition to being disloyal institutionally — a protocol that is kept faithful to the 2004 ballast agreements and therefore continues to allow port land to be speculated and privatized. And that's what we play when we talk about the debt of the port of Coruña: the future of the city. That's why we mean in this case that the People's Party gentlemen rectify their position so far, correct and assume the popular cry in the city of Coruña, assume the defence of the rights of all Greeks and Greeks in front of the Government of the State. And, gentlemen of the Socialist Party of Galicia, in the case of the Coruña ratify. It would be a disgrace that in this debate the People's Party gentlemen ratify their historical position and instead those of the Socialist Party rectify. I mean, we want a fair deal for Galicia, for all the ports of Galicia, similar to the deal with Valencia. We want a fair treatment of the demands of the port authorities and, in the case of the debt of the Crown, we want the forgiveness of debt or an equivalent solution, the revision of the 2004 agreements under the pillars of which I have already spoken — title and public management, productive uses and for public appropriations, and not speculation. We want a public consortium, institutional dialogue and citizen participation. We want firm commitments with the financing and deadlines of the railway connection in Punta Langosteira, with which the People's Party has not done enough, has not left secure this financing of the railway connection. And anyone who opposes these measures will have to explain it to both the Greek citizenship and, in particular, the Korean citizenship. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I don't think they should bury themselves in a logic of bipartisanism which seems to compel them to exchange roles with the People's Party as they are in the Government of the State or in the opposition. You also have a past and positions, both in the Town Hall of the Crown and here, in the recent defense of the public ownership and management of the land. So they defend Galicia's interests above party interests, because political discretion cannot be the basis of any equal and solidarity policy. For us it was an outrage for Galicia. We hope that there will be a unanimous agreement from the German Parliament. We think it's possible. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u224	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When in the afternoon of more than fifteen years, a oil tanker passed out in two and sank into generating a catastrophe that is still there harming our marine ecosystems, we all knew that we had a President of the Hunting Board, a disappeared autonomous government, and a government of the state unable to assess in its fair measure the catastrophe that improvisation and incompetence were generating. We knew that, in the face of the misfortune and the troubles, we were alone with the one here. Then, of course, about the severity caused by the bad, terrible, evil disaster management, they landed with money, a thousand pledges and that Galician Plan that has given the printing profits by the posters and that has distributed millions of pesetas into propaganda. Mr. Cascos, Mr. Aznar, that council of ministers... and the outer port is born. And almost recently swimming has a hole. It's not a structural hole in the work, it's not a concrete defect. It's a hole of 300 and many million euros, and it's going up. Oh, the money! How they escape! How many allegiances and silences pay! This pharaonic work, with ineptitude and corruption included, gives rise to a theatrical representation, in which actors change roles, paper, according to the government of the state. The background decoration and the text of the work are the same: Galicia must sell public goods to pay for the State; The Crown must pay with land what speculation covets. No, the outer port of the Coruña is a work of the State, and as such it must be funded to a hundred percent by the State, depurating responsibilities for the hole included. But the decoration and the text of the work have to change, and we're fed up that Galicia pays, that we're aggravated over and over again: the AP-9, the railway, the electricity, the outer port... Mr. Fexóo and that President Raxoi signed the convention of shame, and now it happens that where I said I said Diego. Now the president of the State Government is another, and in the theater work the actors exchanged the roles. The text is the same and the text is also decorated. Because the convention of shame made and made manifest the servitalism of the president of the Union and more of the Galician PP in the face of the beginnings of the state PP, even though these beginnings seriously injure the interests of the city of Coruña: selling vital public goods to this city to pay a work exclusive competition from the state. It's raining in Havana! BNG is not worth the 2004 or 2018 agreement. The state must comply with its obligation to this country. Since the BNG we've been asking where the MPs elected in Galicia are in Congress, whatever their political colour, which they don't even hear on this subject. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of political dignity. And we don't need excuses from bad payers when it comes to defending what belongs to us as equal citizens. The Town Hall of Coruña must lead to the need to preserve the city's heritage by defending with nails and teeth the inner port. We have not seen any live tides, with five Members, conditioning state policy in an act of national exigencies. State budgets are there, and that's the time to put the whole menu on the table. From the BNG we are demanding the presence of the missing parliamentary group in Galicia. Circumstances change, but silence is almost always complicit, and nothing justifies the silence of the PSdEG when the state assumes the forgiveness of the debt of 350 million euros to Valencia but refuses to assume its obligations with the outer port of the Crown. It's about something as simple as demanding that we be treated equally in investments and debt concessions. Of course, the PP is now tearing apart the clothes, scandalizing what Valencia demands, and now feeling the trouble because Valencia is asking for it. Well, you know you're part of the aggravation, you're the aggravation. The convention of shame is the trouble. And, if they put themselves in place, nothing will justify them in front of the Coruña citizenship or the people of the Greeks. He plays the floor — he said in mine, our country. Let's go, then go.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u226	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u227	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mr Sánchez, as the author of the initiative, welcomed this morning's decision to set up this commission of inquiry, by active or passive, of the People's Party. I suppose he will also rejoice at the agreement they took yesterday, in the municipal plenary, of alliance; alliance that we could qualify the Italian, alliance between En Marea and the People's Party, which really surprises us because it's a comedy of Shakespeare. [[Applause]] But this is not a comedy but it's a tragedy. Or if it's a comedy maybe, we don't know it yet, because we'd be in front of what the dream of a summer night would look like between En Marea and the PP, because we came from the summer season. It's hard to understand, because the socialists are where we have always been, and where we have been in 2004. Both in Marea and the People's Party are the political formations that in yesterday's city hall — and here, it seems, and I hope not — have changed enough of their political position. [[Applause]] He was speaking to me, Mr Sánchez — and I suppose Mr Fernández Prado will do the same — of political coherence. And I think that's what failed both in Marea and in the People's Party yesterday in the town hall of Coruña, which is where this matter is being debated, which is transcendent in the Coruña and throughout the metropolitan area, but also, of course, throughout Galicia. Yesterday there was a wave I would say that to political incapacity, a wave of incapacity and perhaps chameleonism of the People's Party to give solutions to the port of the Crown and to the whole rearrangement of the port urban facade, absolute inability of Mr. Black, Mr. Enrique Losada, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, Mr. Feijóo, who did nothing to the port of the Crown in seven months of government in Madrid. And now in a hundred days we have to solve everything. I don't know if it's funambulism, chameleonism or cynicism, I don't know. Explain it, explain it. It is also a wave of political inability, Mr. Sánchez, because the Tide Government, now associated with the People's Party, forgets to discuss a key issue in which everyone seems to have agreed. Because now it seems — at least in the municipal plenary — that it is no longer important to deactivate the protocol that President Feijóo used in April to ridicule the mayor of the Coruña, and therefore to ridicule and nullify all who are corrupt and all who are corrupt. It's not important now. [[Applause]] By the way, Mr. Sánchez, and, by the way, Mr. Fernández Prado — because you were yesterday in the city hall — some Conceler of En Marea I think you said that it was comparable to the defeat of Punta Langosteira to pay Formula 1 and to pay the Cup America in Valencia. That's absolutely unacceptable. He heeded that statement to the unappropriate need that was in the Coruña, throughout the Coruña area, throughout the Costa da Morte and therefore throughout Galicia to remove from the heart of the city the harbour traffic of dangerous grains. Or do we forget what happened with Urquiola, what happened with the Aegean Sea or what happened with the Prestige? That was the reason for being essential to the agreements signed in 2004, sponsored by a socialist government with the conformity of the Madrid governments. That was the fundamental objective, and also, by the way, to position the port of the Coruña in the entire Atlantic arc. These are the legitimate and noble objectives of the city, objectives pursued evidently by the socialists. Fourteen years have passed and, of course, economic, urban and even sociological circumstances, as we have said, require a thorough review of these 2004 conventions. Why don't we do it, Mr. Sánchez, Mr. Fernández Prado, Mr. Rivas, politics with capitals not to stay in political myopia? Mr Sánchez, we, when we read the initiative they presented on the agenda of this plenary, when we read the non-law proposal, were in a position to subscribe to ninety percent of the text of that initiative, or ninety percent! —including, to improve it or to strengthen it with previous commitments, two aspects which we have included in the amendment we have tabled. Of course, in this exercise I don't know whether cynicism, parliamentary falsambulism or, at least, lack of parliamentary courtesy, they present a self-amendment that practically has little to do with the initial terms we were agreeing on. That's why we, from the Socialist Party, have tabled an amendment which in principle picks up the full terms of their own initial initiative. First of all, of course, I would like to urge you to leave the April protocol without effect. Secondly, to review the 2004 conventions with a slaughter: urgently constituting the commission of the 2004 conventions. Because this interinstitutional negotiation for the future of the Coruña and its area is the basis for starting — we say in this amendment — the urban transformation of the harbour land released to the city and, at the same time, ensuring the funds — we do not forget — of sustainable and necessary financing for the viability and competitiveness of the port.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u228	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u229	I'm gonna finish it, president. Thirdly, we obviously urge the constitution of the consortium, which was also forgotten in one of the initiatives. I believe that yesterday in the debate of the municipal plenary they even renounced this initiative. And on the other hand, the socialists in the Coruña and the PSdG don't hide. We have included an initiative, a point in our amendment, to address the Central Government to promote the investment plans of Ports of the State in Galicia, as well as the necessary regulatory and budgetary measures that guarantee the Port Authority of the Coruña and the other port authorities of Galicia the necessary mechanisms for investment and assuming financial burdens incurred by the execution of infrastructures necessary for the operation and competitiveness of both Punta Langosteira and other port facilities of general interest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u230	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u231	Mr Sánchez, I hope you will correct them, I hope they will return to their original initiative by parliamentary courtesy, but above all with regard to the city and political debate in the Coruña. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u232	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u233	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. We'll talk again about the port of Coruña, but I think that, above all, we'll talk about a demand for equal treatment for all Spaniards. We'll talk again about investment without privileges. Because this Parliament, Mr. Villoslada, cannot stand silent in the face of the aggravation which the government of Pedro Sánchez, the socialist government, is doing with the Greeks in relation to the Valencians on issues such as the port of Coruña or on issues such as the beaches in Catalonia. We'll have a chance to talk about AP-9 and AP-7. But, of course, we demanded the same thing — I will say it — we demanded the same equality, when we ruled the PP. And we will continue to do so ruling Pedro Sanchez. And we will unite with all those who defend Galician interests and the interests of the Crown. Because we put those interests before the party, which is not the case of socialists. The original GNP called for the annulment of a protocol that proposed 160 million for the city of Coruña, and which guarantees the most important nowadays for the port, which is the train, railway access — 240 million for that railway access to the port of Punta Langosteira —. I hope, Mr. Villoslada, that these 140 million aren't part of what leads to Valencia paying for formula 1. I sincerely hope so. But I think it's important to remember that until now the only administration that has signed up, that has shown a written commitment and that has put money to ensure that the port lands are public was the Junta de Galicia and its president, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, but inviting, moreover, to participate in others who did not want. We believe that it is essential to maintain what is in that protocol — especially with 140 million for rail access. And we believe, in addition -- and that's why we put it -- that the Union must also ask the State to comply with those commitments that were signed, which we hope will be at least one starting point. They say they're different things. Of course they're different things! We've heard it before. Some are to pay for formula 1 and the theme of the Copa América; and in Coruña it is to pay for a work of general interest of the State, which is a guarantee for the security of the krunis, of all the Greeks and of our sea. Look, they're talking about us changing our mind. Yesterday I remembered, and I even had a little more time. I read it in the middle of the Coruña. The People's Group voted two motions at the plenary, one from the Socialist Party and one from En Marea in 2017, asking for the discharge. And we voted for it. PSOE and In Marea also voted for her. Where? Who's changed? The Socialist Party changed, which presented it. Not only did he vote it, he presented it in 2017, and he counted on the PP's vote when he ruled Mariano Rajoy. But now things have changed. So we can say that here the only thing that has changed was the Ministry of Development's criterion to dominate the Valencians against the crownees. That's the only thing that's changed. And, Mr. Sánchez, more change than a self-amendment that doesn't seem at all... how will you respect it, Mr. Villoslada, if it's four months ago and it's old-fashioned after what the government of Pedro Sánchez did in Valencia? Impossible! It was good to self-amend itself, of course. The new situation, with which the government of Pedro Sánchez and the socialists made a complete change. But in addition, the Merea itself had the money to buy the Solana, placed in the budget. That is, to change, to change... we can talk about a lot of things. We can say that, when he went to the Full of the Crown, he voted in favour of that discharge ruling Mariano Rajoy. And now we continue with those demands. But of course, what is already scandalous is to hear a former Minister of German Socialist Development and to have that lack of memory. Because in 2011, when he left the ministry, he left 283 million debt, almost all he has today. And besides, when he was playing on it in 2011, he put 200 million in the Development Budgets, he said, "No, I don't put the money, who asks for a loan from the Harbour Authority, and I authorize that credit. And Mr. Blanco signed it. He signed the credit instead of putting the money in the budget. But besides, not only that, but he said, "And what sells all the wealth you have to guarantee that payment." Including Solana and Finisterre, who wasn't so far. This is the story we need to know!, in 2011, signed by Mr. Blanco. But, in addition, this story is the history of the Socialist Party and the current government delegate. In 2004, it was signed by a socialist government, the second convention of 2004 is the Socialists Magdalena Álvarez and Paco Vázquez. In 2009, a PSOE-Bloque bipartite — Signors of the Bloc — processed and blessed the agreements as an urban agreement, to give them legality — in 2009, being mayor of the current government delegate. In 2011 another socialist said: We must sell all the assets to evaporate and pay this credit that I authorize — instead of putting the money in the Ministry of Development —. In 2017, you put a motion, because Mariano Rajoy ruled, so he paid for it and took that off, and we voted for it by PP and In Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u234	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u235	And now they say, "Where I said, I say Diego," they said before. That's the real story. Mr. Sánchez, yesterday the Government and the Tide Group in the Town Hall wanted to reach an agreement. He put wisdom, eliminated things — which, of course, I think are positive for the city of Coruña — he showed the will to come to an agreement. We believe that we have also shown it by reaching this agreement to defend the interests of the Crown — whoever it is, Mr Villoslada. It's in our hands to see if the Parliamentary Group of En Marea has the same disposition. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u236	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u237	Well, it was an interesting spectacle of changing suits, or roles, between the Socialist Party and the People's Party in less than two months. It changed the government and then we changed all positions, both those of the Socialist Party and those of the People's Party. Mr. Villoslada, you were talking about a PP alliance to try to cover up the shames of your change of position. We rejoice that yesterday in the Town Hall the People's Party joined in a proposal from the Atlantic Tide that defended what the Government of the Atlantic Tide has always defended: not speculation, citizen participation in decision making and the removal of the debt of an infrastructure that has to pay the State and that in no way can you pay the basis of selling the port land of the Coruña. And if not, I'm clear why you in the Town Hall voted in favour of public ownership of the land less than two months ago, before Pedro Sánchez arrived in the Government, and yesterday they changed their position and no longer defended it. And I want to make it clear to you that in the proposal adopted and our proposal today, of the self-amendment - if it does not look at formal issues to try to justify a position that must be substantive - negotiations are discussed for the review of the 2004 Convention under the clear principles of the title of the public management of financial space for production, etc., which must lead to the development of a new protocol that replaces April 2018. Isn't that clear? And what I had to come here is to say what's not worth our proposal. Do you believe that if Valencia condemns EUR 350 million, the Crown has no equal right to such treatment with its 200 million debt, when still above it was not to pay for formula 1 or Copa América or faits? That, by the way, here comes formula 1 a representative of the People's Party has a lot of jokes after what they did in Valencia. But when it was for a port of general interest and when in return the city has to sell four hundred and a thousand square meters to not even pay the debt... tell me it's not worth our proposal, Mr. Villoslada. Tell us what it was worth before and now it's no longer worth it, unless it's just that now you're not able to tell Pedro Sanchez what they used to say to Mariano Rajoy. And with the People's Party, vice versa; that is, what they were now talking about by political opportunism. It's a lie, because the aggravation, Mr. Fernández Prado, was before, the aggravation was before. Because already the debt situation that the port of Coruña had before was already aggravating situation compared to other ports that did not have this situation and were financed by state funds. And the April protocol, Mr. Fernández Prado, endorsed the privatization of San Diego. And here, in the German Parliament, Mr Fernández Prado, they never voted in favour of the discharge of the debt. And the Government of Galician Union did nothing to get a solution similar to what the Government of Valencia asked for with regard to the 2007 Valencia Consortium. When Rajoy ruled, you brought no solution to the Crown, no solution to the Greek ports, but privatization and speculation on land. Even if it's political opportunism, it's good that you mend the port of the Crown and the rest of the ports. Because he hasn't said anything about what you've done for nine years about the infrastructure requests from all the ports of Greece, nothing at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u238	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u239	And now, as Pedro Sánchez rules, there seems to be a free way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u240	On the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u241	We will try to reach agreement with all the groups despite the intervention of the Socialist Party. We believe that it is possible, if the Socialist Party maintains coherence with this matter, to reach an agreement. If you don't listen to formal issues, we'll come to an agreement. Otherwise, the Socialist Party will have to explain this change of position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u242	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Francisco Casal Vidal, on the demand by the Government of the Greek to the Central Government for the study of a download of the VAT of electricity for the powers and consumption established as essential
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u243	This motion for a non-law tabled the following amendments: a self-amendment by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, one by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and one by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u244	Mr. Casal has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u245	Good afternoon. At the end of this September and early October, there will be a real electrocution of the Greek homes. We are in an emergency situation, and that is why — I apologize to the rest of the groups — we had to complete our proposal by means of a self-amendment in view of this emergency situation, since there are two circumstances: on the one hand, the rise of the receipt of light as a result of the unexhausted speculation of the electric oligopolie; and on the other hand, the end of the deadline for processing access to the new electric social bond, which is prepared as a career of obstacles for the most vulnerable population not to be able to deal with it in time, and will therefore lose it. So in many cases the sum of the general rate adds to the loss of the social bond, all in the same month, all in the same receipt, which can entail a tragic surprise to the homes and which, if not resolved urgently, will lead to energy poverty hundreds of thousands of homes. This is totally intolerable, and this Parliament must put itself in the forefront of solving it if we really want to defend Galician citizenship. We have winter around the corner. That's why it's very urgent to give a solution, even if it's only, at the moment, palliative. He said that the bill of light would make an economic remuneration for thousands of Greek homes. The average light receipt is going to increase around 16 euros a month, about 200 euros a year, and this, for example, eats all the average increase in pensions in budgets; i.e., a pensioner or a pensioner with an average pension around 800 euros will see that this rise evaporates only with the receipts of light. Socially, the situation is unsustainable. In Galicia there are 350,000 households at risk of energy poverty which should potentially benefit from the electric social bonus. If we don't make it easy for these families, 90% will be excluded from the rate, as was the case with the extinct electric ticket from the Union, which only reached 2,500 homes a year, less than 1%. The reality -- that's not euccubrations, that's the reality of the data that the Ministry provided two weeks ago -- is that only 10% of the people who had the previous social bond did the renewal. But, of course, the president of the Galician board, who doesn't see public television, doesn't use public health, doesn't pay the fares of highways, I don't know if living in Montepío doesn't know what pays for light either, because of course, he doesn't know much about what the bill of a Welsh family of normal people is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we're going to the data, we're going to justify everything we've talked about so far. This August the price of electricity increased by 35.5%, the price of energy, compared to the month of the previous year. In August 2017 the energy cost 47.46 euros/megavatio/hour and in August the average was 64.30 euros/megavatio/hour. But besides, last Sunday, i.e. eight days later, the price of megavatio/hour reached 79 euros, i.e. 66.5% more than in August 2017. And why is this happening? Is there not enough water? So the reality is that the level of embalms in Spain is twenty more points than last year, that is, about 50% above the water we had last year. Has the price increased for using the most expensive technologies, which is what some experts and some power company managers say? Well, it's all the other way around. Within total energy production, in August 2017 17.1% was produced with gas, which is, as you know, the most expensive. And in August 2018 it was only 12.8%, that is, more than four points less than last year. So why does the price go up? Well, essentially by massive speculation, that the CEO of Endesa — for more inri, my partner of the desk for five years in his career — called it "the cost of opportunity", an elegant way to call a speculative scam. The argument is easy; I mean, I have a lot of tomatoes and, as in December, I'm going to be able to sell them at 4 euros, why am I going to sell them now at 2? Well, no, I either see them at 4 now or, if not, I'll save them for December. But, of course, the point is that people could say, because if they want to sell them to 4, they don't buy them, but with light we can't do that, because we have to buy them necessarily. Consequences of all this: large Spanish electricity duplicates and sometimes quadriples the benefits of Europeans between 2013 and 2016. During the years of the crisis, the great Spanish electricity had net benefits of nothing less than 56,000 million euros, enormous profits built on high bills that cause an intolerable energy poverty situation, which does not correct a social bonus that leaves out hundreds of thousands of families in Spain and Galicia. The former Minister of Energy and Digital Agenda, Mr. Nadal, has already advanced all this and predicted periods—he called them "volatile"—we call them "mass swindles"—in tariffs and said they would be much more frequent. That's right, that's the truth. But this volatility is not a natural phenomenon, it has specific beneficiaries and causes, and it is the result of the action and inaction of governments, which can and must reverse. The first cause is the enormous power of a group of three companies: Endesa, Iberdrola and Naturgy — formerly Gas Natural Fenosa — which make up a genuine oligopolie energy in Spain, which gives them power to manipulate the market. The second cause is the design of the wholesale electricity market as a de facto de facto Marxist market in which producers and traders must participate every day to sell or acquire their energy respectively; a design that allows a small number of companies to exercise their market power to set the marginal price, so that technologies with production costs far below the marginal, such as nuclear, wind and hydraulic, get huge unfair benefits from the sky. Last Sunday's profits, at the price that the hydraulic power sold, at 79 euros, when the cost is 8 — between 8 and 10 — depend on each power station, reached 900%. This is intolerable. What is called competition in the market is actually nothing more than a procedure in which companies traders and producers of the same business groups exchange numbers in their spreadsheets with the sole objective of maximizing their profit, and all this with the theoretically independent body that regulates this market, Omel, the Iberian Electric Market Operator, chaired by Mrs Carmen Becerril, former president of one of the largest marketing companies and former CEO of Energy in several governments of the People's Party, as you can see, totally independent. This lack of real competition is the reason why it explains the huge difference between Spain and the rest of the European Union. In France, the percentage of energy managed in the daily market is 20%, in the United Kingdom only 14%, while in Spain we're on an average of 80%. In the rest of the country, hydraulic energy, wind energy, nuclear energy is traded at three to four years' worth of fixed prices, and that avoids price volatility, because, although the rest -- 14%, 15%, 20% -- can oscillate, the impact on the total price is very small. And the third cause — which will not give me time to develop — is all international interconnections. It's a bit more complex to explain, and that's why I'll leave it for another day, but it's really affecting a very important way. The point is, when the price in France is more expensive than here, energy is exported; it doesn't affect much the price there, because the daily pool, as I say, is between 14% and 20%, but it affects virtually all of the price in Spain, and that causes prices to crumble completely. So our proposals for rising prices are to take immediate measures to avoid speculation about hydraulic energy. And here we think that, in view of this kind of attack on consumers and on competition, the Galego Consumer Institute should act on its own initiative, according to its competence, because we consider this to be a real scam, and, on the other hand, lowering the price of EVI is essential to avoid energy poverty or its electric social exclusion, establishing a 4% frame for basic consumption to maintain a warm and lit home. And, on the other hand, in the face of the obstacles to access to the electric social bond — this is a surviving situation, because we see the situation that 90% have not yet been able to renew —, urge the Ministry to reverse the burden of carrying out the proceedings; that is to say, keeping everyone in the current social bond and those who have the social bond for less than 3 kilowatts that would not now enter the Ministry directly — you can request the data directly from the Ministry of Business and do it in a completely proper way — and do a 12-month extension to be able to incorporate all the new people who had not previously met and who would now fulfill and to undo possible mistakes that could be made in this process of rapid adaptation. And finally, an information campaign by the Galego Consumer Institute on the conditions of access to the new social bond, administrative assistance and processing of potential beneficiaries, general advice on measures to advise on the most convenient rates and how to save on receipt. We have to stop this electrocution of the Greek homes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u246	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u247	This is a scam that in Galicia will lead to a double robbery if we add to it the 30 million euros that we will have to pay in receipts due to the incompetence of the Galician Board to avoid the reversal of the charge to the electricity from the environmental taxes. We think all these measures are possible to develop and we think that the Galician Parliament must be very active to prevent people from having to turn off the light in October or having to turn off the heating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u248	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u249	Good afternoon again. Several things have emerged in this debate. I will try to point out some questions about the high price of light and its taxation — a question that Mr. Casal has not mentioned too much — to the social bond and also to the social situation and the potential that our country would have. What we've been doing since September, what we're still not even in the equator, has already hit the light not one, but several historical price records, which is neither random nor the last time that's going to happen, nor in 2018 or I'm sure, if things continue like this, also in 2019, because it's a historic escalation that's complex. It has a fundamental part in how the state electricity market is designed, precisely because it is conceived as that, as a market, electricity as a capitalist asset, and not as a public service asset, which is why we should be working all administrations. We from the BNG understand that this should be considered, as a basic service, as an essential service. So, we're seeing today as there are other factors that intervene in the price of electricity. There is one indisputable factor, which is the way of fixing prices, to which Mr. Casal mentioned. At some point they influence climate factors, although they're not currently the determinants. And there's something that's constant, which has been a long time without change and what we think we should really pay attention, which is the absurd and abusive taxation that electricity has in the Spanish state, unique and exclusively by political decisions. We have, for example, a 21% VAT, the highest type of VAT, and this makes it one of the highest in Europe, behind only the Nordic countries. This adds up to some other absolutely abusive tax charges, such as the special electricity tax itself and other issues that would be impossible to sum up in five minutes. But the bottom line is that this is so unique and exclusively by political decisions, because the Spanish State is embolished through the VAT more than 5,000 million euros a year, more than 5,000 million euros a year. Not in vain did Mr. Montoro have in the past much interest in raising the EVI from 18% to 21%, but we see that now, with the change of government, the change of Montoro to Montero, neither did he bring great benefits and we kept the same EVE. And since BNG we think this should change, not just as En Marea's initiative proposes to the most basic consumptions, but to all of them, because electricity is a good of first necessity. By setting the example and comparing it with food, no one would understand that for everyone a bread bar, something so elementary, because it had to cost 10, 15, 20, 500 euros, because much less something in energy matter is homologable. We argue that the type of recording that should have electricity should be basic, should be reduced from our point of view to the super-reduced, but at least 10%, which is the same thing that is paid for by water. Why don't you do it for this guy's energy? Surely we'll hear here that this of lowering EVI is little left, this kind of argument that is sometimes heard lately, but, of course, we understand that it would be necessary, not by lowering the light to people like Amancio Ortega; we are in favour of multimillionaire people like him paying taxes in Galicia, raising taxes to them, etc., etc., that they tax their fortunes and that by that way the State enters, but not the cost that a very important part of our country has serious difficulties to pay the bill of electricity at the end of the month, because the tax redistribution is made in taxes and it is not done in this tax, which is indirect and which would have to pay the whole world. We understand that it wouldn't make sense that I had the same price and the same IVE had a bottle of whiskey or a can of caviar of what has a bread bar, and therefore we don't understand this absurd taxation, and the only reason — I insist — is that the state of this tax. At the same time that the shame of that policy against energy poverty is consumed, absolutely blunt and inefficient, for the reasons Mr. Casal said, also added, because it will be followed also by the electricians themselves, as it is traditional — at some point it will be buried again and there will be again to challenge it — because it is thought of inconsequentially, from the social point of view, because I have already set this example many times in this House: a multimillionaire football player for being a large family would have the right of him to the social bond and other people to remain out. But it's not even thought about the climate parameters of this country either. And so once again since the BNG we think we have to think with ambition about how to fight energy poverty, and for that the social bond is absolutely unserviceable for us. We should aspire that the centralist forces have abandoned their sectarianism and that we have finally given a debate in this country, far from state bonds, so that that condition of surplus producers we have been employed for our benefit and not against, as the People's Party has done. Now we're going to pay that fee, where our bill is still going to increase those autonomic supplements, and, meanwhile, we see how they continue to deny that this country uses its energy wealth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u250	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u251	...with a Welsh electric fare that would solve a lot more problems. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u253	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago in an interview, writer Bernardo Atxaga said, "The precision is always great, because it hits the stupid and rhetorical balloons." The truth is, it's pretty easy in general for this Parliament, because on that very day, the day that I agreed to read this interview in a magazine, Mr. Feijóo also said at the opening of the university course -- and I think some of those who were here -- that we are in times of post-versity, and that same day too -- that's what serendipia has to do with the data on registered unemployment, a subject that has a lot to do with what I'm going to talk about now, because it has a lot to do with poverty and income distribution. I say this because I have already made reference to a committee in this Parliament and to whom the chair seemed to be that this issue has nothing to do with poverty or the distribution of income. Well, on that day the number 2 of the Galician People's Party's chain of command, in one of the fine analyses he usually does, said textually — and I quote a teletype —: "The inter-annual unemployment falls in Galicia and rises in Spain, because here he rules the PP and the PSOE in the state as a whole." Reasoning is quite weak, but in addition, it is false. In Galicia he dropped unemployment; in Spain, too. Therefore, in this context of discussions of an economic nature in which everything is worth absolutely everything, because sometimes it is appropriate to reflect a little on the distribution of income, wealth, and policies that can or should be developed. It is clear from the Socialist Group that the economic model that this country has is a deeply unfair model, is a model in which the gross domestic product is increasing more than employment; therefore, productivity is increasing, which is good, but we all understand that this has to be transferred to wages. And unfortunately, it doesn't move to wages and, unfortunately, the distribution of wealth is more and more asymmetric and it's more and more unfair. And I repeat again: it's data not from Abel Losada, not from the Socialist Party, it's data from the National Institute of Statistics, and that they are of course going to continue publishing with the new Government, and we'll see how this issue evolves. As it evolves, we'll say that evolution is negative; as it continues to evolve that income from work to employment has a decreasing percentage of GDP, this parliamentary group will say that evolution is negative. And, therefore, in this context, it is appropriate to discuss the two issues that appear in the amendment we tabled. We, in any case, will accept the initiative of In Marea, we will also accept that self-amendment. The truth is that the self-amendment, which I suppose is collected in the regulation, is still a technically complex element, for me at least — I must be a little quadrilled, but at last — and I am a little hard to reason with. And indeed, Mr Casal, there is this problem in terms of energy poverty — let us say at the moment — there is a problem of access, there is a problem of distribution, there is a problem in the electricity market. The spokeswoman of the People's Party challenged us, or challenged me in this case, that I would never again talk about the benefits of energy companies once the Socialist Party ruled in Madrid. I will continue to talk about the benefits of energy companies while they continue to grow as Endesa grew in the first half of 2018, 15%. I'll keep talking. Mrs. Novoa, you told me you weren't going to talk and I'm talking. If you want, I put a cilicio and tight and bleeding But, in any case, I insist on what I'm talking about, and I recognize that the business benefits of the big electricians are absolutely immoral and that it's an absolutely opaque and oligopolitical market, and therefore you have to go against it. [[Laughter]] And I look forward, with great interest, to the Congress of Members of the 19th Congress of the Minister of the Ecological Transition. [[Murmurs.]] Because, of course, it's true that you can't change the world in a hundred days and that you can't change the world with a minority government, but it's true that you're doing some things, without any doubt. Among other things, there is a policy of supporting or fighting child poverty, which will enable us to lay the groundwork on that which would in future be universal income. And I say it again: I think it's better to strengthen those lines than to lower the VAT in the energy sector, because the European Union itself says so. I know there are countries that have a reduced LVI, and the linear drop in VVI does not encourage energy efficiency and consumption control at all. So it's not gonna be like we're going down the IVE -- and I know it sounds demagogic -- that illuminates the pools of Somosaguas. I don't want to lower that IV out of power. I want those who have problems paying for electricity to have a sufficiently solid and solid social policy that will enable them to solve that problem. So I think it's nice to study it, without any doubt, but I think there are many more elements than taxation itself, on the one hand, and that energy itself, on the other hand. This is what we've been collecting and collecting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u254	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u255	...in our initiatives. And so I repeat again: there is a proposal for comprehensive reform of the electrical system. I think you have to actually allow them to lower prices. You also know Mr. Casal — who tells me he knows — that the price of CO2 emissions is rising and they're going to increase; I'm not saying that this justifies or is not an alibi for anything, but it's an objective fact that this is happening.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u256	Thank you, Mr. Losada. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u257	And so, Mr. Casal, I repeat again: let's support this initiative, also its own amendment, and, in any case, I believe that tax and income redistribution issues are essentially resolved by means of global tax reform, as you say in a way. I think that's where to act. And by the way, Mrs. Presas, changing Montoro to Montero is a phrase of the People's Party and you intellectually don't need to copy them at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u258	Thank you. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nóvoa Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u259	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mr. Casal, let us bring here again an initiative on the price of electricity that we have discussed on many occasions in this Parliament, and I repeat and repeat: we agree with all of you that the price of electricity is inescapable, that it is an essential asset and that of course it has a very important influence on the economies of families. What we don't agree on at all is on the stage that you expose us here and in the interpretation that makes the situation of electricity in our country. Look, Mr. Casal, again you bring a self-amendment in another of your initiatives, to ask for things that are already done or that are planned to be done right away. We have a state social bond, aid from the Galician Union that complements it and a Galego Institute of Consumption that does and certainly deals with all the energy claims that occur in our community. The People's Parliamentary Group believes that the price of electricity needs to be reduced. We think we need new measures that can reduce the price, but if we do so in the way you ask, we don't understand what degree we would harm the big electricians, those that say we defend; we don't understand how, if we lower the IVE, we would harm them; I don't see it, Your Honor. All we can do is collect taxes that are directed to autonomous communities for their financing, for education, for health, for social services. I don't know if this seems absurd to Mrs. Presas; of course, it doesn't seem to us. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] On the other hand, I don't see the kindness you have for you to lower the VAT, if otherwise you intend to create new taxes, such as, for example, the diesel tax, qualified balloon probe by the minister, soon qualified by Mr. Sánchez as "imprescindable and necessary". So, do you think this diesel tax is much more social than the IVE? Do you think it's a much fairer tax for nearly 18 million diesel car users in Spain? Anyway, this morning you've already gone out -- I'll tell you if you haven't seen the news -- Mrs. Fairy's Minister saying that she doesn't allow our economy to drop taxes. See how you two are going to solve this; well, they'll correct it again. Look, gentlemen of the Socialist Group, this is an example of a lack of energy planning, which they so requested, of an orderly planning. It fills users, entrepreneurs, private investment, thousands of energy workers, such as thermal power plants. You tell me if that's going to be the way to rule, filling the press with headlines. Advertising and propaganda, Mr. Losada, which you liked so much, the truth is it's every day. The truth is that you will agree with me that today's price of light is expensive, and Mr. Rajoy does not rule nor is the Minister Christmas in the Government, and the price of electricity remains high. Then I understand that you will subscribe to Mrs. Ribera's words, her minister of ecological transition, that the price of light will continue to rise. It's just that it's not that easy to change. They were going to get to the government and they were going to change everything, but it turns out that now the 100 days aren't enough and they'll need them, well, 20 years. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the diagnosis is similar to the one that was a few months ago when the People's Party was ruling. Mr. Losada was screaming in the sky at that time and now he's here explaining the CO2 emissions rights paid by the power stations. Well, Mr. Losada, your speech has changed a lot. Look, we're not electrical power surpluses today, either in Spain or Galicia. That's why the speech in the Welsh Tariff Block is already a speech which is not supported, Mrs. Presas. I see, in a coherent way, the People's Group in the Galician Parliament, the Government of the Union and the People's Group in the Congress of Deputies, we believe it is necessary to lower the price of electricity by helping to generate more renewable energy. That's why the Government of the State has put in place renewable energy stations without major premiums, without leaving any inheritances, without increasing the tariff deficit, Socialist Party gentlemen, an important part of the cost of electricity bill. Besides, the board has been able to move ahead, and it will allow the rapid installation of these wind farms in our community, opposition gentlemen. As for the attention of the most vulnerable people to their electricity bill, remember this: that the social bond has been reformulated, because the above did not meet the legality, and even now you are seeing that obviously there are many fewer users who have reformulated it, and I understand, because we trust what Mrs. Ecological Transition Minister said, that will delay or even conduct advertising campaigns. What you don't trust is you, Mr. Casal; what you don't trust is in the Government that you keep, because the minister said she was going to campaign. So, look, what's clear is that the U.S. government has been acting, for years acting with the most disadvantaged people, for four years with a social electric ticket, we've made a law in this Parliament that you haven't supported. So tell me, Mr. Casal, what are your measures? what are they? I say: close thermal power stations, first measure. Secondly, don't let any wind farms or private initiatives, ladies and gentlemen, and nationalize electricity, of course. Third step — and last step — is always opposed to any measure taken by the Government of the United Nations or by this People's Group to help the most vulnerable. That's your proposal. Look, Mr. Losada, you talked about the 100 days of government, I don't have enough time to talk about what you said, to rectify it. It's the rectification party. They go out on all the rectifying headlines, the rectified Socialist Party. Yeah, a diesel tax, then it's a balloon probe, then we put it back on. Mr. Losada, we don't believe him. Now we close the power stations, not then, when all communities rise, especially theirs, where they rule...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u260	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u261	...now we don't want to close them. Today they have, or have not adopted, better said, an initiative of our People's Group on thermal power stations. I'm telling you to clear up, ladies and gentlemen, because this isn't serious; zero planning, zero credibility. They take it seriously and don't leave a hole like they left in the Spanish electric system we paid and we'll all pay for more than 20 years, Mr. Losada. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u263	In fact, I regret that the motivation of this non-law proposal was not understood and, above all, the self-amendment justification, that emergency situation. When we talk about reduced VAT to essential consumption, it's precisely so that we don't have to make a complete renewal of the whole IV system. Putting this change of VAT on time, in the face of an emergency situation, within a general fiscal change, would lead us to the best by 2020, and that's not going to solve energy poverty in November. And we speak as essential consumption a power limit of 4.3 kilowatts and 350 kilowatts/monthly consumption hours. That won't affect Mr. Amancio Ortega or many families who still have difficulty paying the bill, this will affect the most vulnerable people. That's why we say this LNP is headed for an emergency situation, and the general tax cost -- actually, I haven't had time to analyze it -- it's certainly not very high. That's why we can't accept amendments, both from the BNG and the PSdEG, because they would lead us to eternal processes. In other words, the theme of the Welsh Electric Law is a subject that could be studied, but without doubt, it implies changes in European regulations — Mrs. Presas knows perfectly — that could take us 3, 4 or 5 years to develop, as long as it was justified that a Greek electric tariff would reduce prices, that I have not yet seen any serious study to justify it. Because just by saying that we sell more energy than we consume, it's not justified that prices are going to be lower with a differentiated market of the rest of the Iberian market, with all that it implies. I haven't seen any serious studies justifying it. In any case, I would be delighted that he had done it, but it would take a long time. Then she talks to Mrs. Novola about the issue that there's already a social bond. A totally insufficient social bond, which leaves out 90 percent of the people, and besides -- it's a fact that statistics show -- 90 percent of the people who had it couldn't renew it. We're going to go through everything, and when the October receipt comes with 16 euros more in the normal receipt, but 6 or 7 euros more for the rejuvenation and charging to return the environmental impact to the electricians, do people find 20, 30 or 40 euros more in the receipt? What will you do next month? Turn off the light and turn off the heating. That can't be tolerated! What can you do besides the Galego Institute of Consumption, which you say you do and don't? Well, ask the electricians for price manipulation and market manipulation. And finally, he says they're already campaigning. I can tell you, on my own experience, that this is not true. I'm traveling all over Galicia by campaigning information because it's not done by the Galician Consumer Institute. At each meeting — I could ask you here today and the result would be the same — I ask people first, do you know what rate you have?, do you know if it is the most appropriate rate for your home?, do you know whether you have the right to the social bonus? I'm sure if I ask you here, 95% of those we're here, we wouldn't know what rate we have or if it's the most suitable for our level of consumption, etc. The lack of information is enormous, and you can't say you're reporting it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u264	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u265	Indeed, the scam situation is still the same, and it is the same because it comes from the 2013 People's Party Electric Market Act, which is precisely the one that allows all these things that I have related in the explanatory statement to happen. So, you understand, this is an emergency situation: the LVV download of a very specific group of subscribers is not required to download the EVV worldwide. The idea is that the subject is being studied, and our concrete proposal is that the EVV will be lowered to the powers of up to 4.3 kilowatts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u266	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u267	...and up to 350 kilowatts/monthly consumption time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u268	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u269	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament regarding the treatment they are being given in the CRTVG to the information content
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u270	There were no amendments to this proposal. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u271	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. As a previous question, there has been a reformulation of the title of the initiative in the parliamentary processing process which is not in line with what we request in the proposal. And I'm sure all the people who are here have read it. So good afternoon again. And if I may, first of all, I would also like to greet on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group, the people who accompany us on the guest board, representatives of the Galician Radio and Public Television Corporation's works committee, whom we would like to thank for today's presence here in plenary, and also to recognise from here, as we have done on other occasions, the struggle of the staff of Galician Radio and Public Television, who have been dressed in black every Friday in the defense of Galicia. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] 16 weeks, nothing more or less! [[Applause]] They've been dressed in black for 16 weeks, I say, in the defense of a public service such as the Public Radio and Television Corporation in this country and a fundamental right -- and this is very important -- as is access to true information, plural information, impartial information and proximity to the public media in this country. A 16-week struggle, but last Saturday he took the streets of Compostela in a historic demonstration, because never before, in the 33rd year since the foundation of Galician Radio and Public Television, a demonstration like the 8th of September had been convened. Never since 1985! Today, since the BNG, we want to move with this initiative to the House, to the Parliament of Galicia, the courage and dignity that we feel on Saturday at the demonstration and that we show every day the professionals of the CRTVG, so that this plenary, in which it is deposited — at least partly — the sovereignty of the people of Greece, reprobates — which is what really calls for the initiative — the CEO of the corporation, Mr Sánchez Izquierdo, for everything that has happened in the public media of this country since he was appointed, and especially in recent months. A reprobation which is in fact a request for immediate resignation or termination of what is the most responsible within the corporation of the public media situation of this country, converted absolutely into a transmission belt of the press office of the People's Party, of the General Secretariat of the Midsunta de Galicia, to the glory of its president. We defend the reprobation of the general director because he is also the palmer example — his person, the position he bears and the conditions in which he does so — and more clearly the systematic and intentional failure to comply with the Media Law since his approval. Mr. Sánchez Izquierdo has been completely irregularly occupying the overall direction of CRTVG for seven years after being appointed by Mr. Feijóo and extended sin die against the provisions of the law itself, seven years! The same people who have been waiting for the workers of Radio and Television in Galicia to meet what the law says, something as absolutely revolutionary as that professional status and the creation of the Council of Informatives. But if there is something that motivates the initiative that we have brought today from the BNG, and which is supported by the request for reprobation, it is the complaints of the professionals and the professionals, who have been demanding for months with this mobilization of the black Fridays, and who have repeated Saturday in the Prateria Square, the end of the information manipulation, the interferences and political control at the CRTVG. The public media, ladies and gentlemen, are no tool to satisfy the selfishness of the President of the Union. They're a public service that finances all the Greeks and the Greeks nothing more and nothing less than with more than a hundred million public euros. It is not the propaganda cabinet of the People's Party or any political party, and it must therefore represent ideological, political, but also cultural and social pluralism of Galicia. They fight the workers and workers of CRTVG to ensure the fulfilment of the public service mission that must always be registered on the Radio and Television of this country; a vocation of public service based on the professionalism of journalists and that never, ever, should serve the partisan interests of the Union, as is happening from the hands of the People's Party. And it was in rejection of that information line, of the inferences and manipulation, so they resigned, as an absolutely brave, dignified and historical act, the two people who drove until recently the Telexornal will, in an exercise - we insist - of dignity and courage. We have said it many times in this plenary session and also in the CRTVG Control Committee: bravery, courage and courage, even though it rebuffs CRTVG's leadership. [[Applause]] Because, do you know what was the answer to Mr. Sánchez Izquierdo's address in the face of professional criticism, and specifically the criticism of one of those people who had submitted the resignation? Do you know what the answer was? Open a file with a threat of dismissal against a worker, against a journalist. From here again all our solidarity with Tati Moyano; a reprisal against whom you have dared to say before the president of the board in a beneficial gala against cancer that CRTVG workers and workers dress as black to demand something so revolutionary as to comply with the law. [[Applause]] And we must remember that it is a law that this president of the Senate, who is also a Member, voted and approved in this House. I don't know if you're excited, I invite you to do a mental exercise with me right now. They think it would be happening if this had happened on Catalan public television. That threat of dismissal is reprisal, but also a warning to navigators: whoever moves does not come out in the photo. [[Murmurs.]] And also an attempt to asphyxiate the exercise of a fundamental right as freedom of expression. Only this is enough for Mr. Sánchez Izquierdo to resign. This is how we claim it in the Control Commission since the BNG before the end of the previous part-session, and that is why we are pushing and defending your rejection in this House today. And in view of this, the People's Party says it doesn't understand the protests of the workers and workers of CRTVG; it said it yesterday even in statements to another television, to Noi Television, to Mrs. Arias. I have to tell you that I don't know that I find it more embarrassing or more regrettable, that they say they don't understand the staff protests because it means that they don't even hear what they're saying, or that the president of the Galician Union — the president of the Galician Union, of all the Galician and all the Greeks! — publicly say they don't see the Galician, as if they don't care about the public media in this country. Since the BNG we've been denouncing the manipulation and political control in the CRTVG for years, but I think today who best can explain what's going on is the people who work in the public media in this country. They say in the manifesto to which they read in Praterias — as if someone was not there and does not understand what the demands of the staff framework are —: We demand that information manipulation practices cease immediately that, in addition to violating several essential rights, both distance us from the loss of credibility of the society to which we should serve. Governmental interference and the intrusion of political and economic powers are unacceptable. We need freedom and independence to be able to inform as we know and as we must, and this requirement is not only personal and collective, labor and professional, it is a legal requirement. It is essential to professionalize to break up with that transmission belt. We're not even supposed to be the communications cabinet of any government, no matter what color it is. We're not even the speaker of your messages. It is neither our mission nor our responsibility to change or extend executives, change or perpetuate voting intentions. Don't let them convince you otherwise, and if anyone tries with that so recurring question, don't you know where you work? I know where I work, in the house of all the Greeks and the Greeks, all of them. We want from the BNG that this country recovers the public media because it is from all the Galicians and all the Greeks, that political control and information manipulation ceases, that they listen to and respond to the demands of the staff board, and, above all, that they return to those who support them with economic means and resources, that they return to their legitimate owners and owners, to the whole of the Galicians and the Greeks, the public media of this country. I'm not from Galicia, I'm not the propaganda cabinet of the People's Party, so we immediately demand the exit of Mr. Sánchez Left of CRTVG's office, and we ask them here today to reject this direction with us in this House. For my part, nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u273	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. First of all, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I want to welcome the members of the CRTVG Business Committee. We didn't choose to stay with our arms crossed or hide our heads, we chose to play. That's the difference. This is the letter of a song by Mercedes Sosa, a letter that hung journalist Tati Moyano on social networks the other day. A journalist, a woman, brave, to say what's going on, simply — certainly, a journalist — what's going on at CRTVG, if you're applying methods at your job and a persecution that are the same as another century, which are the same of another political era in this country. [[Applause]] These words also reflect, from our point of view, what happened last Saturday. CRTVG professionals without fear of fighting, who don't hide, who are an example of dignity and professionalism, not only because of their work, can't forget that when you express yourself not only by professionalism, by your working conditions — in many cases too — you are doing it by the right of all Greeks and Greeks to have independent, objective public media, and that, of course, they are not manipulated. [[Applause]] Get up, get up, six Fridays. They began to do so because of the Spanish Radio-Television mobilizations. On Radio-Television Española is producing a normalization process, back......back... No, it was much more plural when Urdace was, of course! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, much more plural. We are producing a process of normalization, pluralism, independence and objectivity, which we will continue to see in the coming months. I see he's barking. [[Murmurs.]] The truth is that black Fridays on Spanish Television stopped, and black Fridays on CRTVG continue. They go for 16 and continue to threaten to follow because the situation remains unresolved. [[Applause]] Why are they protesting? They manifest themselves because this is the worst moment in thirty-three years of the public media in this autonomous community. The best for information manipulation and the worst for pluralism, for independence and for the objectivity of channels that had to be all and for all, with information on public radio and television that look like the NODO, ladies and gentlemen, which look like the NODO! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I'm not surprised, this parliamentary group doesn't miss anything that Mr. Feijó doesn't see her. He said in the Chain Being that he didn't see TV Galega. It's normal, so you're going to see if your own office writes the news scripts? Besides that, it will also be because there are many people who don't like to see themselves, and of course, watching TV Galega's news, being the president of the board and calling Núñez Feijóo, it's complex as well. [[Applause]] Not even the public media protest itself was met with objectivity. Look, I have here the first version of the news of the demonstration. He said: Invited by the company committees of the Galician Radio and Television Company and the Spanish Television and Radio Company, communicators, journalists, people in the world of culture and political parties among others, they showed up in the capital of Galicia to claim public media free of political interference. Then this goes through the machine of political manipulation and exits as follows: CRTVG's and Spanish Radio-Television's business committees have appeared in Santiago to demand compliance with Galicia's Public Media Act. That is, everything passed by the filter, as always, of the General Secretariat of the Media. There's such confusion -- it's Vigo, it's going to like it --...there's such confusion that the blue of the Galician TV microphones turns out to be confusing even with the blue of the Popular Party micros, and the members of the People's Party ask themselves and respond to themselves, in an exercise that surely seems to you to be political pluralism. You think it's normal that instead of being the radio-televisión galaga, the company of all of you, you're the ones who ask and answer themselves. [[Applause]] There's a very clear breach, as has been said here, of the Media Law: without a committee of audiovisual professionals, without independent advice, with a suppression... before a member was heard here saying that all the series and all the programs are back. No, they don't all come back, the Cultural Diary doesn't come back, after many years. A disconnection of local news, oh, by chance!, a few months from the municipal elections, given that the People's Party is only ruling in one of the seven great Greek cities. And it's a slow scanning process that's being done to bravers, against the criteria of the professionals themselves who are at CRTVG. So, therefore, and I don't have enough time left, because we would need at least ten or fifteen more minutes from the Socialist Group to say all the reasons why we are going to vote in favour of this initiative today, because we are left with reasons to repudiate the director of Galega Television. Nothing else and thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u274	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u275	Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome and welcome the representatives of the workers and the workers. From the Tide, there are reasons for us too. From En Marea we will support the reprobation of the director of CRTVG, although it only has symbolic value, because we know that this does not imply resignation or dismissal. I should have implied it, but as things are, it doesn't imply it. We support reprobation because we feel and share the absolute indignation and dissatisfaction with the actions and decisions being made, even if it has no executive effect, because we are faced with a convulsive situation. You've talked about the dream of a summer night, about Shakespeare. Now you have to talk about the storm. And in the face of a storm, in the face of such a harsh and critical situation, how is it and what is the reaction? The reaction, both from the leadership of CRTVG and the Government of the People's Party, is deaf ears — because it is of course interested — and sanctions. What kind of sanctions? Sanctioning files are opened against those people who are critical and disagree with the management's information line. That, obviously, according to the Association of Journalists, has a name, it's called reprisal. Retaliation means limiting, retaliation means pretending to sow fear, and workers and workers are not afraid. On the 8th day we lived and found that not only workers and workers who, with their impulses, with their agreements, took us to citizenship, to the trade unions, to the people of political parties, to the people of culture and to the people of society saying enough already, hello now! Black Fridays are a response to dignity and independence, to the claim of rights. Of course, this nightmare of non-compliance with the law is an obvious one; it's an obvious one that denotes bias and manipulation. There are lots of examples of manipulation. In order not to repeat what the comrades have said, I believe that all the opposition is absolutely in agreement with taking action. And the measures should have been taken since the law was put in place, since the director of CRTVG is not deliberately elected by this Parliament nor is he elected under the law. What do they demand? Compliance with the law. Let's look at a little bit, tomorrow, we'll have a chance, in the interpellation that we'll do to Vice President Rueda, to expand and analyse more often what is the management of a public environment, with the crucial importance that this has. It's not a minor matter. What do they say, what do they exist? Really own production, boost your own production. They're not doing it, they're eradicating their own production, and you just have to listen to how new projects are announced in the grid. Everything is mostly external production. Yesterday I voluntarily synchronized at ten and a half, felt like an injured animal in the belly because I heard the melody of the Cultural Diary. Yes, it's the same melody, but they're denaturalizing a program that's a reference, and it's not a lie. They talk about another 100 minutes, diluted, it's not the same; tomorrow I'll have a chance. Information advice. How does Mr. Director respond? Ah, this isn't the Balsam de Fierabrás. All right, the Balsam de Fierabrás is not an antidote to everything, even Sancho Panza gave him diarrhea. Forgive the eschatological, but it's an insult to intelligence when you talk about informative advice saying it's not Fierabras' remedy. Have some responsibility, don't insult the workers or us. As far as he is not sexist, in cases of harassment on television there is no protocol, only recommendations. Right here, and in CRTVG's commission, we had to hear the big lie, and we have to say it with a speaker. What's the big lie? When asked, is there an ethical code of self-regulation for equal opportunities in the media? This is also legal, it's in chapter III of the code of good practice that would have to be working. Both the vice president of the Government and the director of the CRTVG said it existed, and it's not true. This has to be corrected because it's written. With regard to identity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u276	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u277	...—end—if a program that fulfills plurality, a program that is a reference, a well-produced program, a program that has passed through all of the creation of Galicia, if capoda, which reflects on the consequences, after 28 years. With respect—and finish, because tomorrow I will have time—you will have local disconnections, they are a continuously established maneuver to control all possible mechanisms now before the elections. Sure, how's the president gonna listen to Gallega Television? For what? Don't you have time? No, you know what you're going to say. The CEO must be independent, as in other countries. What's going on in this part with public television wouldn't happen in any democratic country the first stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u278	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u279	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to our guests. "The summer programming of the TVG has reached the highest audience data in Galicia for the last five years." "[...] and Cultural Diary spread to the weekend." "TVG will start issuing high-definition in December." "TVG, Spain's most impact television in 2017." "The TVG was Thursday, September 6, the absolute leader of the prime time audience." They're just some of the various media holders referred to in CRTVG in the last few weeks. In the same period of time, we could also read these other headlines: "Strengthen with a decree the change to Spanish RadioTelevision and modify the agreement of Congress." "The renewal of Spanish RadioTelevision remains in the hands of independentists." "PSOE and We can plan to control Spanish RadioTelevision to the municipalities." "The Spanish Television news outlets lose leadership for the first time in 22 months." And by the way, "The great purge of Spanish RadioTelevision. The list, without counting Tertullians, of the 77 displaced or fired by Rosa María Mateo and Fran Llorente.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh These 77 shifted didn't have anyone in black to defend them, because on Spanish TV they ended up on black Fridays the same day the decree entered. [[Applause]] On the same day as the decree entered, black Fridays were over on Spanish Television. Who was going to say it! Honestly, do you think that the management that is being carried out at the Galega Radio and Television Company is worthy of reprobation? Wouldn't it be better if they were betrayed by their subconscious? Won't it be better that the BNG is, man!, a little crazy? I understand, he couldn't take part in that cake that's being distributed in Madrid. But I'm already surprised that the people of En Marea, Podemos and the people of the PSOE have the hard face, the little shame, to come here asking for reprobation, what is happening in Madrid. [[Protests.]] Because, look: unworthy, manipulation, antidemocratic and shameful is to skip Congress and cease by decree the Board of Directors of the Spanish RadioTelevision Company. And appoint by decree to whom to direct it. Manipulation is to fire, for ideological reasons, more than 80 workers in just over a month. Everything in the pure chavista style, gentlemen. Just as Paul Iglesias likes and Mr. Sánchez acts gently. Manipulate is what happened in the Bipartite. Even 12 times they had to draw his attention to the fact that he was missing the truth at the time of the election. The Electoral Union has to draw your attention to it. He used to say his own "Beiras". He said Antonio Losada was censoring him on Radio Galega. I'd like to know if, this morning, Mrs. Pontón was censored on Radio Glaga. I hear her say everything she meant, as of course it has to be, I'd miss more! But manipulation and unworthy, Mrs. Rodil, is that you manipulate my statements. Please listen to them. They're recorded, listen to them. I didn't say that you're saying here that I said. That is unworthy, and that is manipulation. [[Applause]] Manipulation is also spreading false news. That is, the Gürtel was dedicated to 40 seconds, when it was dedicated to it for 5 minutes and 10 seconds, and the media it published has already rectified. When will you be rectified? When will you be rectified that the Cultural Journal has been deleted? The Cultural Diary doubled its broadcast time, and now you can listen every day, and also every day culture on the Galician Television through the "Culture 365" project. Don't you think they're multiple, they don't seem trained enough, the collaborators who are going to be both in the news and in the cultural spaces? They say they're bad. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Aren't they piral? Are you against a television that is the most followed in Galicia, which is the one that has increased all its audiences in August, having 8 points above the news about the second one? Do you mean that the Greeks like manipulation? Why are they always against what the Greeks think? Why do they always go against the Galicians and the Greeks? There you are! I can't understand it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u280	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u281	We kept the law. We are in favour of complying with the law, and CRTVG is complying with the law, it is developing that law that was approved here in 2011. If you understand to comply with the law what is being done on Spanish Television, it doesn't contain us. While most of them are here on the People's Party stands, they're not going to be appointed by decree to any director. No sir, it won't be named by decree. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u282	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u283	I remind you of some bench that you will have to remember how they are appointed and the arrangements for the appointment of the current director of the company. Some will have to remember the agreement that was made for that appointment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u284	Quiet. Quiet. Mr. Losada, please, silence! Debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Plural debate. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u285	And by the way, here, of course, was alluded to these black Fridays and that demonstration. We, totally respectful of those people, respect total and absolute. But I also respect those 570,000 Greeks who contact one of CRTVG's news reports every day. I'm also referring to those nine of the ten Greeks who have just said in an inquiry that published the Forta that the Galician Radio and Television Company is the one that most represents their culture and the way to be Greek. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u286	Thank you, Mrs Arias. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u287	Good afternoon again. I'm going to try to use these minutes to answer some questions that were said here. Quickly thank the forces of the opposition of En Marea and the PSdeg for their support, and for several questions. That nothing will be passed here by decree? The appointment of the Directorate General of CRTVG, Mrs. Raquel Arias, I think it was left to name it, but it was named finger. I've been appointed to my finger! [[Applause]] He was named finger, and after passing a law, in 2011. After passing a law in 2011 [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u288	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u289	After passing a law in 2011, which said that this person, director or general director of CRTVG, had to be elected, by two thirds of this House, that gentleman was extended in a Budget Accompanying Act, that is, not even allowing a democratic debate on what he was... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u290	Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u291	I think you expressed quite well the position of the group to Mrs Arias. Since she spoke for the People's Parliamentary Group, they now respect my speaking time. With regard to the compliance of that law, which is one of the central issues of the demands of the staff of professionals, of the journalists at CRTVG...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u292	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u293	...I'll quote you some of the unfinished articles, because later the deadlines have passed them through the bow of the triumph since it was approved, but articles not complied with in that Law 9/2011. Article 232. Election by two-thirds of this House of the Director General. Article 33 Signature of the programme contracts. Nothing. Article 36 Vocational status and establishment of the Information Council. Nothing. Last third subparagraph (c) promotion of own production. I don't know if you saw the presentation and the ladder of the new programming for the fall season. See on Galician Television what remains of its own production: the information services. Nothing else, absolutely! Last disposition fifth. Creation of audiovisual authority. If that is to develop and comply with a law, let God descend and see him! The intervention by Mrs Arias on behalf of the Popular Parliamentary Group: Pablo Iglesias, Pedro Sánchez, Chavismo, RadioTelevision Española. Anything not to talk about what's going on in the media in this country, and that's what we see every day on Galician television. Anything not to talk about what's going on in this country! [[Applause]] Finally, a central issue, because it is the backbone in which we support this request for reprobation: the resignation or cessation of Mr. Sánchez Izquierdo, I insist, as the visible head of that direction in his hands right now at CRTVG. There's a question that I think you, even saying that you respect the demands and mobilizations of the staff, absolutely deny. Do you think that in thirty-three years of the existence of the public media in this country, a mobilization has never been convened like black Fridays or as the September 8 demonstration, because people have a lot of free time? Why do people have vices to manifest themselves? Something is happening in the public media of this country, it's been happening a long time and we've said it many times, and they're completely kidnapped. They're completely kidnapped, so we're still defending not only that they have to stop this general director, who is in an absolutely irregular situation, but that we have to start, and so we're going to bring him to this House, a public contest to get out of the hands of any government the leadership of the state media in this country and give it back to who their rightful owners, who are the Greeks and the Greeks, and who must be rejected by the criteria of professionalism of the journalists who still work in them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-11-DSPG080.u294	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Finish here the full half hour more on schedule. The truth is, I'm going with this. I've got to try to get control and I'm asking for all of you to cooperate, because it's true that in time we're there a little... See you tomorrow.
