ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. And we go into the agenda with point one. Full debate of the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u2	Mr. Valeriano Martínez García has the floor for the bill's presentation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I compare myself to the plenary session of Parliament to present the Budget Bill of the Galician Union for 2019. We are debating today the main instrument that the Union has to develop its economic policy and, on this occasion, we have set three main objectives: growth, services and people. They're an expansive but prudent and realistic account, with planned spending and corresponding to the right income to finance them; some budgets that meet the needs of Galicia in 2019, but which they also think of the challenges of the next decade's country. As a major economic policy tool, it would soon serve to have an budget that could not be executed. The great advantage of Galicia, one more year, is the guarantee that these accounts — after the parliamentary process in which the groups will decide on possible incorporations into the original text — will be approved in time and form and may enter into force on January 1, 2019. In fact, we are the first community to discuss in your parliament the budget for next year. This security and certainty that we approach the Greeks contrasts with the insecurity and uncertainties that exist in Spain: at this moment no citizen of Spain knows whether there will be general government budgets. Under circumstances such as the current one each year is worth more than the stability that has been renewed by the Greeks two years ago, and which translates into benefits for the same citizens. [[Murmurs.]] Because today more than ever you see the importance of having to approve budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia, with this government, we have chosen a path; surely not the easiest, but we consider it to be the most appropriate and responsible, since it brings security, certainty and trust. In both times of crisis and recovery, we chose rigour and planning to overcome adversity, consolidate economic recovery and lay the foundations for better preparation for other complicated times. Therefore, since the German Government we have analysed the current context of Spain, which, I insist, we see with concern, and we work to help, from our competences and responsibilities, make Galicia safe from the general instability that Spain is suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, the accounts for 2019 are drawn up in an economic and financial context that is marked by a review of the growth of most Western economies. The most recent forecasts of major international organisations — IMF, OECD and the European Commission — point to sustained growth in the coming years, even though the risks at low levels have intensified in recent months. In addition, as I say, the political landscape that Spain is living since the motion of censure at the end of May and the parliamentary weakness of the new Government provoke certain uncertainties that advise us, once again, to be prudent. In spite of these circumstances, our duty as Government is to take advantage of the institutional political stability that citizens — single in Spain — have given us to safeguard Galicia from this instability and not compromise the economic recovery we are consolidating. Galicia therefore wants to continue to offer society certainty and credibility, and it is no longer certain that it is the only community that has assured that it will approve its budgets in time and form. Because budgets ensure that measures announced by a government can be implemented. In state policy we have been attending ads, balloons probes and rectifications for months, and ads are not credible without a budget to allow them to be made. In Galicia there is assurance that the announcements of the Union can be executed, as we have done for a decade. Ladies and gentlemen, these are already the third budgets of the legislation, and we are fulfilling the objectives of it, devoting the first two years to consolidating economic recovery. And the challenge, now, immediately, is to take advantage of the second part of the legislation to continue helping with our tools that are becoming more and more Greek and better employed, and to support this immediate challenge with the preparation and planning of the priorities of the next decade, beginning, obviously, with the design of Xacobeo 2021, with the ambition that it is the best Holy Year in history. With what prospects? To achieve both challenges, we have to continue to meet, as we have so far, our roadmap, which is nothing other than the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan. And, ladies and gentlemen, without trying to be a triumphalist, if I have to emphasize that the analyzed data shows that our planning is working. I remind you of the two main challenges in the plan: an average growth of five percent of GDP and the creation of between eighty-fifty thousand new jobs. Thus, in the last four years, forecasting 2.8 percent of GDP for this year 2018, the average growth is around three percent; above all, of the estimated. And by 2019, despite the targeted risks, we will maintain a robust growth, with a 2.5 percent increase in GDP. As for job creation: in the first three years of the plan -- it's closed -- fifty-five thousand new jobs were created, so with the forecasts for this year 2018 and 2019, we're also on the right path to meet the roadmap. Don't you see in my words that I am giving this success exclusively to the Greek Government, which, no doubt, since our competences, we have helped in everything we can. It is a success of Galicia as a society, because, with this planning, in the last three years Galicia has experienced a remarkable change in its growth model that has allowed to break with the trend of the financial crisis in 2008. Thus, the production of goods and services has grown at a good rate, giving rise to an acceleration of the path of convergence in income per inhabitant, both with the European Union and with Spain. As a result, a less dependent base of sectors particularly sensitive to cycle change has been established, and this enables us to face the immediate future in a more favourable position than our surroundings and maintain a reasonable differential in the path of growth. And it is not just that we think so — that too — but that the comparative figures show that both this year and the next Galicia will continue to grow more than the average of Spain and the euro area. And the updated data from the main economic indicators also puts us in a better position. Galicia keeps its export boom in the year, and until August they grew by 9.5 percent more than the Spanish average. The good pace of industry also continues to strengthen our economy: on the one hand, the industrial production index has grown in the year—to September—a 6.1 percent, multiplying by more than four and a half Spaniard; on the other hand, industrial sector invoicing continues to grow strongly, and Galicia is the third community where it grew. As for the service sector activity, in August too, it recorded a strong growth of 5.3 percent, above what is growing the Spanish ensemble; in fact, sales of trade by the youth grew to September over the average of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, let's look at the income we have now. Even though by 2019 income from the autonomic financing system continues to improve, they do not do so at the pace that marks economic growth. I'll try to explain it: again, the instability that causes the new central government to lack a general budget project prevents autonomous communities from having the data that will definitely make up our revenue by 2019. With regard to estimates of resources that are part of the system, we used the data from the interim information provided by the Ministry of Business at the end of July. Therefore, they are neither exclusive to the community nor to be developed on the margins of the state, but at present they are consistent and referenced to the estimates managed by the Government of the State. This clarification is appropriate to ask yourself: why not increase the incomes of all that the State says? Because the communication of the incomes of the autonomous financing system incorporates the integration of the state tranche, with the effects of January 1, 2019, of the old autonomic stretch of the hydrocarbon tax which, the difference in other communities, was already established in Galicia. Although it might seem like an increase in system resources, Galicia is simply a change in the subscription of the same income. Thus, the Ministry's interim communication pointed to Galicia as a total increase in resources by 2.4 percent, but if we deduce the income that already constituted the so-called autonomic health cent and that now goes to the performance of hydrocarbons in the system, the increase is only 1.48 percent. Finally, if we consider the settlement actually satisfied in 2018, which was less than initially reported at EUR 87.5 million, the difference between the resources of the system communicated for 2019 and the budgets in 2018 is only 0.8 percent. So the conclusion of this is that the consolidation of the improvement of macroeconomic variables is not reflected in an increase in the resources that reaches Galicia by the autonomic financing system. At this point I would also like to refer to that Galicia, with its head president, led the protest so that the state would not remain in one month of the liquidation of the 2017 EVV as a result of a regulatory change, and other autonomous communities of different political color joined us. We were loyal, but also firm, in order to ensure that the Ministry of Business is committed to compensating for the effects of this regulatory change, which for Galicia accounts for one hundred and ninety-eight million euros. This commitment — expressed by the minister to the president and myself at a meeting we held in Madrid in August — is the reason why this item is collected in chapter IV, of revenue for 2019, as a non-finalist transfer from the state. And despite the fact that income has not grown at the pace of other years, since the beginning of economic recovery it has grown to more than four hundred million euros, which has allowed us and allows us to make decisions to lower taxes on the Greeks. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in the current scenario the tax policy of the Greek Government also differs completely from what it announces — we will see if it has the ability to implement it — the new central government. Thus, in the face of an increase in pilot expenditure on more public deficit, more debt and new taxes — a revenue that has been shown to fail in the past — we, as the German Government, continue with financial autonomy to complete fiscal consolidation, not to depend on debt and lower taxes. And the facts are giving us reason, because the biggest tax drop in Galician history, adopted in 2016, helped consolidate economic recovery. That's why I'm already saying we don't agree with the opposition to raise taxes on the Greeks. 99.6 percent of the contributors will remain unpaid. From 2016 to October 2018 more than 248,521 people received an inheritance and did not pay for inheritance taxes. 98.5 percent of the taxpayers with average and low incomes will continue to pay less IRPF. And we will maintain the zero-tax strategy for rural areas — with measures such as the elimination of taxes for the transmission of rustic soil and agricultural holdings, the increase in the size of the farm or the transmission of young farmers to the cluster of rustic farms — which is also proving successful, because since 2016, also, again, until October 2018, more than 41,313 gales and gales have not paid these taxes. We will also maintain the elimination of taxes for the purchase of habitual housing in areas not populated by children under the age of thirty-six years, by large families and persons with disabilities, as I assumed in the October closure that 2,385 Greeks had benefited. For the 2019 budgets we include four new tax reductions in the Budget Act, and we make this decision because we believe it's good for both citizens, who pay less taxes, and for the administration, who can even improve the collection by the greatest dynamism that produces these incentives. First of all, we're going to lower taxes to buy a flat for habitual residence, as the housing market is recovering. With the downside we place Galicia as the autonomous community in which less taxes will pay three collectives: children under the age of thirty-six, numerous families and persons with disabilities who buy this habitual housing. We're down by twenty-five percent for these three groups, which will go from four percent to three percent of the capital tax. In addition, in this case, we reduce 12.5 percent of the taxes that will be paid by those Greeks who buy that housing used to be habitual and with a heritage limit, which will pay from eight percent to seven percent. This measure will benefit each year more than 10,000 Greek families. Secondly, we are committed to innovation, one of the major challenges of the Strategic Plan. We encourage participation and investment in innovative pemes and technologically-based business initiatives, as well as grants for research. Thirdly, we approve a very demanding measure: the one that deepens in the reduction of the succession tax, which we approved in 2016, to extend tax benefits to successions among brothers. We double the reduction by going from eight thousand to sixteen thousand, that is, we benefit all the brothers. And we eliminated for six out of every ten inheritances between brothers the succession tax. Thus, Galicia is located among communities with lower taxation for inheritances among brothers. And fourthly, let's reverse one of the fiscal measures taken during the crisis: the rise in the capital tax of 2013. We left without effect the 20 percent increase in the capital tax rate agreed in 2013 in the context of the recession to return to the starting situation before the crisis. I want to remember that we were the only German government to raise the capital tax, and what we're doing now is to resume the current rate in the state. Ladies and gentlemen, with this budget policy in 2019, we will again have more spending capacity, which will allow us to count on an expansive budget, the highest since 2010. We've had four years with expansive budgets. For the next year, the public accounts in Greece will reach the €9.850 million, 300 and more than this year 2018 and more than 400 million over 2015. And this will enable us to consolidate economic recovery, strengthen the reactivation of employment and contribute to achieving the priority objective of government action, which is that full recovery reaches all the Greek homes. And we use these greater resources to consolidate our growth model: a healthy and balanced growth that reaches budgetary stability and no longer depends on the indebtedness of the autonomous accounts. And for me to find out that the model doesn't stay in the name, let me explain its strengths: with this growth Saint Galicia expands and strengthens its social expenditure every year, Galicia leads the investor effort and per capita investment in Spain, is at the head of the autonomic administrations that previously pay its suppliers, and makes all of this compatible with a fiscal consolidation practically achieved and almost without re-debted indebtedness. This management allows us to maintain our autonomy, exercise our self-government and continue to lower taxes to the Greeks. [[Applause]] What is the result of all this for the 2019 budget? With the management of these years, the Government has been able to deliver to this parliament the most sound and less indebted budgets of the entire decade. In fact, one fact that reaffirms this model of healthy growth is that five years ago the debt burden on financial revenues exceeded five percent, and next year it will only reach 0.7 percent. As I have already commented in the parliamentary committee procedure, year after year we are reminded that this government will increase its debt during the economic crisis, but at the same time in its amendments we are asked to owe ourselves more. I am pleased that this year some group that used to ask for more indebtedness, on this occasion, does not do so; it seems that, little by little — although not recognised — joins the position of the German Government not to ask for more indebtedness from the authority. And I do, because the facts and numbers — although Galicia, as was common in all public administrations in Spain, had to go to indebtedness to maintain the services to citizens during the strong recession — also prove that Galicia has been the community that has been the least indebtedness since 2009. This responsible behavior has had positive consequences: on the one hand, Galicia has become among the most indebted communities today; and on the other hand, we have had positive economic effects, as we avoid being indebted to more than EUR 3 billion over 2009, if we have done so at the average level that autonomous communities have done so, and in five years we have saved fifty-seven and six million in paying the interest in debt. Ladies and gentlemen, the ultimate goal of our budgetary strategy is to consolidate growth with better services for people. For 2019 we foresee a macroeconomic picture characterized by prudence, realism and being very balanced. The estimated growth of 2.5 percent of GDP makes it possible to continue to follow the path provided for in the Strategic Plan and to continue, one more year, growing above the estimated for the whole of Spain. These forecasts are based, from the point of view of domestic demand, on a solid increase in public and private consumption; also gross capital formation fixed will increase by 3.4 percent, and the expenditure on final consumption referred to above will rise by two percent. As far as external demand is concerned, it will also be positive, because exports, with an increase of 4.5 percent, as well as imports, which will advance about 4.3 percent, will maintain their strong dynamism. The rate of unemployment will continue to be reduced in line with that also provided for in the Strategic Plan and will be, on average, 12.7 per cent annually, remaining below the estimated for Spain by all public and non-public prospective agencies. Ladies and gentlemen, we have always drawn up our macroeconomic picture with realism and prudence, but 2019 has the support of Airef, who qualifies our forecasts as prudent, without any saving, and giving him the maximum possibility of being met, when he is located in the central part of the forecast intervals. And to maintain robust growth is very important how we distribute resources. Our strategy for 2019 is based on raising more than seven percent of the stakes to favor more and more jobs, twice the budget; betting on investment, which rises by 5.3 percent over the average of the accounts; strengthening staff costs to improve the wages and reconciliation conditions of public employees; and, again, with a single down game: the payment of interest, which accumulates a fall of more than half — fifty-three percent in the last five years. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have to highlight a priority above others, this is undoubtedly employment. It continues to lower unemployment and, according to the latest published data, Galicia now has twenty-eight thousand seven hundred unemployed less than when we had this same debate one year ago. Fruit of this recovery from the labour market the unemployment rate in Galicia also follows down, and is located in the third trimester at 12.24 percent — 2.3 points below the Spanish average —; in this way we move towards the target of 10 percent drop by 2020. In addition, the number of busy people reaches 1,096,500, at levels nine years ago. And we also have a higher quality job: employees with indefinite contracts come up in thirty-four thousand seven hundred people, 5.7 percent, while temporary employment decreases by 1.3 percent. The rise in indefinite recruitment is higher than in the average of the state by 2.4 points, the largest increase since 2007. This is the way and we want to deepen it, because we are aware that we must continue to create more and more stable jobs, because there are still many citizens who want to work and cannot. Ladies and gentlemen, along with the job bet, the second major priority is to continue to strengthen social spending and improve our public services. There are already more than two hundred million euros extra that we can spend on social spending since 2014, and this priority has its reflection, for example, in health care, which in 2019 will have the highest budget in its history, squeezing four billion euros. It exceeds the 2009 health expenditure by more than 200 million, which — I remember again — was inflated by a total of 600 million euros, as shown in the negative settlement that we are still paying. But, ladies and gentlemen, since the overall figure is important, it is more of this government's priority, which concentrates 40.5 percent of its non-financial expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, if a decade ago, in 2009, they were satisfied with 36.1 percent — five points less than now — I suppose they will now support the fact that we are destined for 200 million more. And they will also agree that we have come to EUR 1,486 for the health of each Greek, one hundred and sixty-eight euros more than you intended. And after health care, we prioritized public education, with almost twenty-four percent of expenditure; again, one point above the 2009 budget. And with an investment by Greek from two to twenty-four years significantly higher: from 4,760 euros, almost five hundred euros more than we had in 2009. We've completed our commitment for social spending with resources for social policy, which in 2019 will reach seventy-four million euros; about 50 percent more than there was in 2009, and which already represents eight percent of the non-financial expenditure, well above the 5.1 that I assumed a decade ago. Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore faced with some budgets that clearly reinforce social spending. Another of the strengths of the 2019 accounts is that we can reconcile this reinforcement of social spending with a strong investor drive. Next year we'll have 1,652 million euros in investments, 300 more than four years ago. In fact, with the latest known data, Galicia leads the investor effort in Spain and allocates about seventy-eight euros per capita, almost twice as much as autonomous communities. And with this new impulse we intend to meet the needs of all Galicia, but also to help further promote territorial rebalancing. And in this chapter it is of great importance that we continue to improve gross savings, that the next exercise will reach the nine hundred and ninety million euros, and that it allows us to finance more than half of the investments. All this growth that I've been growing up in my last intervention translates into better services. Within our global strategy, we are aware that we must continue to favour R & D+i so that the private sector will accompany us and increasingly devote resources to a key area to strengthen our competitiveness as a society. In the last two budgets we have made a spectacular leap into resources for this matter, with progress that exceeds forty percent and which is going from 1.4 to 1.8 percent of non-financial expenditure; of course, also far above the budget in recent times. It serves only one data to check this leap: in 2009, the per capita public investment in R+D+i was forty-seven euros; in 2017, forty-nine, while in 2019 it will dew sixty-five euros. Ladies and gentlemen, if we continue with this evolution — and I repeat: the private sector accompanies — we will be able to complete the necessary transformation of the Greek economy: an open and competitive model that must improve the position of our businesses abroad and consolidate a more accessible community to improve mobility; more sustainable, with a reinforcement of energy efficiency, and more modern, with the full introduction of ICTs. Unique mention I think they deserve the thirty million euros we include to begin the implementation of the Xacobeo 2021. In this sense, in addition to the 7.4 million euro split for its direct planning, you have to add twelve million for the conservation, maintenance and signalling of Santiago's roads, as well as for the hostel network. Even so, nearly 8.5 million are also included for rehabilitation of goods of cultural interest on the roads, as well as various audiovisual, museum and exhibition activities around the Jacobean route. In connection with this, we continue to defend and respect our natural heritage, to continue to transform our rural and marine environment, so that all the Greeks can count on the best services throughout our territory. Ladies and gentlemen, behind the improvement of these public services are the public employees, whom we want, through the hands of trade union organizations, to improve their pay, labour and conciliation conditions. Among these measures are a significant gainful increase, with a basic wage rise of around 2.4 percent — and with other additional subsidies signed with unions for teachers, justice, health...—; the recovery of professional careers, and also the implementation of the professional career of the Board's staff, which we hope to culminate this year in consensus, if possible, with trade union organizations. But also the 100 percent payout for sick leave; the two-week extension of maternity leave, which will go from twenty-two to twenty-four, counting on preparation -- which places our community at the head of Spain in the cumulative duration of maternity leave -- and also the execution of the stability plan, which provides for more than fifteen thousand squares to place our temporality rate around seven percent, that is, in terms of practical stability. Let's talk about people now. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the third priority of these accounts is none other than people, that is, the recipients of public services. For the past three years, with the creation of the Social Policy Council, we have been strengthening the policies of children, older people and dependent people and promoting the inclusion of the most disadvantaged. For 2019, we redouble the wagering by social policies, with an increase of 4.6 percent, well above the average budget, and with three priorities: firstly, attention to dependent people, which already absorbs 300 and three million euros, fourteen percent more than this year 2018; secondly, integration of people at risk of exclusion, with changes in the risk so that higher amounts per person can be collected would benefit, so that they can reconcile their collection with work and so that there can be more than one beneficiary per household, and, thirdly, support for families and children, expanding the coverage of the Welcome Card to three years for lower incomes, consolidating the programmes of the Council Bonus, the Bono Care, children's homes and schools, also in business environments, and expanding the measures of reconciliation and demographic dynamization. And the biggest budget in history for public health also has positive repercussions on people: on the one hand, modernizing the entire health network, with new investments in both hospital infrastructure and primary care networks; and on the other hand, with improvements in health care, with advances in prevention, with the introduction of new treatments with biological drugs and for rare diseases and with particular attention to chronicity and demographic ageing. We complete people's attention with the empowerment of ever more equitable public education. We expand and modernize infrastructures, strengthen multilingual teaching and our wager for digitization in classrooms. And not only do we attend compulsory education, but we generally attend vocational training, especially in dual FP, as well as universities. We also include a package of measures to promote equality, with measures such as fourteen million for the protection and support of victims of gender-based violence, the establishment of a shift of psychological care to victims, the strengthening of measures to access housing and employment and the increase of regular aid to victims. At the same time, we provide support measures to victims of gender-based violence by ensuring anonymity in the Union's temporary oppositions and employment lists or by implementing a personal supplement that guarantees their remuneration when they unfortunately have to move from administration as a protective measure. At the same time, we included 1.6 million to support reconciliation and co-responsibility, or another 1.8 million to promote women's self-employment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating an expansive but prudent budget with more resources and less taxes. We've been with positive data for five years, with less and less unemployed and more families who notice economic recovery, but we're still aware that there are still families and people who are still in trouble. The German Government is not alien to this reality. To that end, we propose this budget for 2019 as a useful tool for restoring economic consolidation, with a new boost to investment, and for strengthening the creation of more and better employment and the protection of the welfare state; therefore, to favour growth, with better services for people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u4	Thank you, Counselor. Debates and votes on the amendments to the whole proposal for a global refund of budgets or of any section or expenditure centre
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u5	We are now debating the amendments to the group first, which are in particular the amendments to the whole, which demand the global return of budgets or of any section or centre of expenditure manager. Let's get started. There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group. We started with the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which is why Mrs. Pontón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u6	Good day to all and all. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, that my first words are not to speak of budgets, that they are to send all our affection to the neighbors and neighbors of Viveiro, who lived this night a very distressing situation, and to send from here all our affection and all our affection to the family and friends of that deceased person, who I think was a necessary mention. And starting with the question that we are dealing with today, which is to analyze these budgets, I have to tell you, Counsellor, that your intervention — not just here, but also in the Committee on Budgets — is what comes a little bit about reminding us of that film that was so famous in the 1990s, by Bill Murray: The Day of the Marmot. Because, really, the Galician Union converts the debate of these budgets into a sort of marmot day for our country; it comes year after year with the same speech, with the same promises, with the same... now we have a novelty, and it is that since the PP in the state has not ruled there is a hecatombe sidereal. It's the only novelty of his speech, but actually what he comes to us is with the same promises and the same headlines. Look, I've been upset to review the notes that the Galician Board makes in relation to the budgets. In 2017, budgets strengthened social spending, boosted investments and consolidated healthy growth. In 2018, budgets enabled employment creation, social expenditure, innovation and growth to be strengthened. In 2019 they say exactly the same thing: they drive growth, they reinforce social spending, more investments and new tax reductions. You've made Galicia and budget debate a kind of marmot day. I don't know if you remember this film. For years I haven't seen her, but the argument of this film was a meteorologist who was going to tell a people who spent the day there was a cyclone, and every day he was waking up living exactly on the same day. He had several phases of this protagonist, first he fell into hedonism, then he despaired and almost killed himself, but really, until he began to re-examine his life, which things were doing wrong and which were his priorities, he couldn't get out of that marble day. What we expect from these amendments is that, in fact, we will re-examine what the Government is doing, especially what we talk about people. Because that idea of the happy Arcadia that you present to us, in which everything is winding up, is not the people's day to day, because there are thousands of people installed in the crisis in our country. Above all, change your priorities, so that Galicia can get out of this kind of day of the marmot that's preventing us from progressing and moving forward. The truth is it's surprising that they come here telling us that we're in the right direction when we see how they fail in one of the main goals you set, which was to change the demographic situation of the country. The demographic crisis is progressing, and there's not a single indicator that's positive. We're worse than when you came to Galician Union. Ladies and gentlemen, how can you say we're in the right direction, when we're in line with the state as a whole in the recovery of employment? What is more, the problem is that the job being created is a precarious job, and you yourself recognize, in the report that you send to this Parliament in budgets, that an important part of the fall in unemployment rate has to do with the fall in the rate of activity. That's not because it's really generating the necessary job, the job before the crisis, but we're in a bad situation there. And, of course, we don't understand how they can say we're in the right direction when we're still having nearly half a million Galicians at risk of poverty, very low wages, with pensions that are in line with the state; or how they can come here with a triumphal speech when in their government decade they emigrated from this country 270,000 people. It's like the whole town of Coruña is gone! This is really the portrait of this government; a government that has no impulse or ideas, and that doesn't have the ability to manage either. The first thing the citizens need to know is that what we approve here is a prediction, is something the Government says it will do. But as important as what they say they're going to do is know what they've done, what the government is doing, year after year, with the budgets. And here is the truth that there is a reality, and what they say soon does not appear sustained in the execution of budgets. We collected the latest data we have this year, 2018, which they told us would create jobs, social spending, innovation, growth and stability. His goal was to create jobs. What is Joina doing in this matter? So when we look at the level of execution -- I insist -- what his Government sends us on September 30, 2018, what we see is that the five advisors that have a greater impact on job creation, because they can affect economic activity, it turns out they have a really low level of execution on September 30. Infrastructure, 46% execution; Rural Environment, 37.9%; Sea Council, 34.5%; Economics, Employment and Industry Council, 25.7% execution. I mean, for all these months his government has not been able to develop it at the beginning of the year, which is when that investment and public support would be needed. They leave everything to the end, and then there's a very important part of uninvestment budgets. Of course, then reality is not this investment effort of what you're talking about, because, really, when we see the execution by chapters, it's precisely real investments and capital transfers, that is, those that have a higher vocation of stimulus in the economy, where we have worse levels of execution. In real investments they left without spending six out of every ten euros in what we've been doing for a year; and in capital transfers, seven out of every ten. I mean, we're facing a paralysed government with no execution capacity. [[Applause]] Besides, they tell us that their biggest concern is employment, but it turns out that employment programs are the ones that have a much lower execution. These are their data, see: improvement and promotion of employability, 21% execution; vocational training of unemployed, 25% execution; vocational training of unemployed, 9.6% execution; promotion of the social economy, 15.2% execution; competitiveness of fisheries and aquaculture production, 19.9% execution. This is the reality, and so we could keep tearing apart others that you tell us are their priorities: setting up the population in rural areas, 8.9% running. In fact, what we're seeing here is a government that, in the face of propaganda, the facts show that it's not able to execute in time and shape its budgets; with important changes that also end up changing the spending priorities that appear in budgets; and that it's not using all the capacity and power that it would have as Government to actually be able to influence the improvement of the evolution of this country. And the thing is, this isn't just happening this year in the budgets, which they might... I know! be convulsed because they've lost the government in Madrid. No, no, the problem is that this has been the general point of its government, where, above all, in employment, in the Fisheries Council, in the Council of the Sea and the Agro, they have a very low level of execution, and they are important elements for really being able to articulate and dimension our economy. Then comes another of the great bets that you repeat us every year but that we don't see in reality either, which is that bet for innovation and knowledge. We know that innovation is key for a country to develop. There are many economic theories that see it this way, and therefore it has no discussion whatsoever. But it's just that your government is really turning into an innovicid government, because what you've really achieved during these years was putting Galicia in the queue of innovation and destroying half of the innovative companies. I'm a innocent government! And that's not what I'm saying, that's what they say in their own management data. [[Applause]] Take a look at how they act, because it's important that citizens know this. In 2017 they said they would increase — after drastically reducing it — the investment in R+D+i. They present the budgets and then they make a change, and they take away 24.5 million euros from innovation. And by subtracting those 24.5 million euros, then it turns out they're not able to execute 63 million euros in that year 2017. And now, on September 30, 2018, they don't run 77% of the European Research and Innovation Plan; they've only executed 13% of university research; and only 14.4% of support for modernization, internationalization and improvement of competitiveness. I mean, not only are they making an investment effort far below the average of the countries around us, of course far from what they do in Catalonia and in Euskadi, but also what they put forward in budgets then, really, they're not capable of executing it, and therefore we see how there's no bet on our productive base or bet on innovation. This I think is very worrying because it has practical consequences. Of course, you have been unable to dimension and bet on the productive base of our country. Fishing and the sea accumulate the most important cuts over this decade in budgets, and this has results. And the results are that 3,600 jobs have been lost in fishing and 13,300 jobs in livestock and agriculture. But we don't see it as soon as they make other bets on sectors that might have potential. Let's analyze what's happening in the towns and cities of our country with the small and medium-sized trade. What's going on, Counselor? So what the data tells us is that in last year, Galicia has closed three shops every day in our country. Three less shops every day, as long as you keep feeding the big commercial surfaces. [[Applause]] And do you know in part — I don't say everything, but in part — why is this happening? Because their government has cut in this decade by 50%, 50%!, support for Greek trade, when it's a basic element to create jobs, and quality jobs; so that we have cities and cities with quality and with a productive fabric; and it's also important to get them out of our products. But your policy in this area is really to support the large commercial areas. And this lack of project, this lack of vision, because they don't support the productive system, they don't support innovation, they don't support small and medium-sized trade, then they have direct consequences for employment. And I'm very sorry, but we're not going to congratulate your government on the work situation that Galicia has. You can torture statistics whatever you want, they're really master at the torture of statistics, but the reality is that we're still having a serious problem, because formed people emigrated that they had to be generating wealth in our country. If we didn't have that emigration, today's demographic situation in Galicia would grow from the population's point of view. And we have some data that any government would be here saying, hey, we have a very serious problem, let's see how we solve it. Because it is a serious problem that, by recovering GDP, employment is not recovered. And when we're going to analyze what's going on in these new jobs, what we see, Counselor, is precarious; an increasing precariousness that affects young people and women more and more. In the last year in which we can see a complete X-ray of employment, which is 2017, we see that 92 percent of the contracts signed were temporary; of these 100,000 contracts signed, 35% had a duration of less than one week, an indicator that increases because many people are working in precarious, and increased the rate of temporality especially between youth and women. There's a lot of jobs with wages that don't allow you to have a decent life, Counselor. There are people who work hard every day and they can't get to the end of the month, because with 600, 400 and 500 euros it's impossible that they can give conditions to develop decent life projects. In the workplace, there are many elements that affect us. One, the working counter-reforms that the People's Party and the Socialist Party have done, which should already be repealed. But also in this matter, there is a part that has an important impact on the quality of employment, and that's what Galician Union does in its contracts. We could come here to talk about health, about the precaution that is taking place, which drives out a lot of professionals. We could bring here such a lot of people that every day you're going to work for a contract. So it's impossible for doctors and doctors, nurses and nurses to bet on this country, because they're not being given stability! But this is a global problem in the Galician Union, because the Galician Union has destroyed public employment and is undermining working conditions. Look, data from the Galego Institute of Statistics. The staff serving the Galician Union fell in nearly 2,000 people from January 2009 to the last available data we have, which is July 2017. But when we see what kind of employment has evolved, as employment has evolved according to its stability or not, what we see is how the statutory staff have done, the career officer and the staff have experienced severe falls, and how, on the contrary, you do it is to increase the number of temporary staff, the temporary staff, and the temporary staff. I mean, we're seeing that the Galician Union, in these years, has abolished public employment and has increasingly undermined the conditions of the workers and the employees of the Public Administration. So at a time when you could have invested in stability, in creating more public services, in better caring for social needs — and therefore since the Public Administration, to have an impact on the economic reality of our country — you were a machine to destroy employment and to prevent work relationships. There's actually another aspect of what we want to mention today, which has to do with all this propaganda that you make of being champions of social spending and that they've always made a strategic bet in this area. Here is a fact that is objective, and is that the bulk of the skills that the Galician Union has are: health, education and dependence, and they have a fixed expenditure structurally very strong by the number of employees and public employees. So if we analyze this reality of weight that has these competences in any self-government, it's going to be very similar because they're really the competences that Joina has. But it's important that we analyze exactly what the Galician Union is doing with health care, education or dependence, because they're playing with something that's fundamental to people's lives because they are the pillars of the welfare state. In this sense, I believe that in this budget debate we saw that the Galician Union intended to continue to deteriorate public health. You presented a budget project where you wanted to pay the pediatric care of this country. They went through the back door, because, in fact, as they don't have pediatricians, what they wanted was to suppress the right to pediatric care in the primary care system. [[Applause]] That's how you want to solve a problem. [[Applause]] If there's a problem and I can't solve it, I'm hiding it under the carpet or making that right disappear. They had to adjust because it was a very important mess, and rightly so, because they were playing with the attention of the children and the children of this country. Obviously, what shows us is that, when they correct, their government is right. We therefore ask that it not only be rectified in the field of pediatric care, it be rectified in all the cuts that are still present in the budgets of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] Because, look, it's important to analyze what's going on in health care, right? You know that you don't want to investigate, you want a self-exculpatory commission and you don't want the critical voices of public health to be heard in this Parliament; it's the censorship of democracy that you practice. And they don't want to be heard because it's very serious what is drawn in the budgets of the board. In these budgets, really, the weight of the Low Health Council; that is, the effort we are making, comparatively, is inferior, and appears so, of course, collected in the budgets. And where does the cut concentrate? Well, it's still being cut into primary care. Today we have 200 million euros less than ten years of primary care. And all of this after an accumulated cut of 2,000 million euros. I mean, as much as you tell us there's a budget where there's the most resources, they're devoting more resources to private resources, they're devoting more resources to privatization, but they're not dedicating more resources to the base of the system, which is precisely primary care, which is still having a very important cut: 13% less than in 2009. The results, of course, are in sight. Of course, we have people in the streets protesting because they have no quality in their primary care centers, and people who don't protest but who have to wait a week in order to be able to go to their head doctor. We have the health centers collapsed. We have as serious problems as those we saw on the Road. And the cuts in primary care are consolidated in these budgets. Another one we can say of a fundamental aspect as is what is happening with the education system in our country. I have to tell you in all sincerity: it's worrying that they are also deteriorating public education because that means deteriorating one of the elements about which this country can grow, which is about a better-trained youth and about a research and a university that is a point in our development. What we see here is how we have a cut in education that focuses, above all, on compulsory education and on the Greek university system. We believe that much more resources are needed to move forward, to end the brain drain and the precariousness of today's university itself, which has nearly 5% less resources than it had in 2009. Therefore, precariously, with low wages, with less resources, you can't ask excellence from our universities, which are actually doing much after the cuts you've made. And yet we can tell from the state of attention to our dependents and our dependents, because, really, the effort you've made is not enough. The Greek Government violates the Dependency Law, and violates the Dependency Law because there are 10,000 people who are entitled to a benefit that they do not receive; because we have 30,000 dependents who need help in the home and who do not have it; because there are 14,000 people who need adapted transportation and do not have it; or because there are 12,300 people who ask to go to a center of the day and have no place. And if you do not comply with the law, Counselor, that when you say a person has to wait nine months at most to have a place in a residence, it turns out that the reality is that you have to wait two years. And do you know what your response to these budgets is? Assign three million euros to build seven public residences; i.e. propaganda, but make sure there won't be a single work initiated by these residences in this legislation. Pre-election propaganda, but of course not solutions to the dependency problem. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We are therefore faced with budgets that are like an empty shell, which show us that in this government there is no future strategy for this country on economic matters. Which is also antisocial budgets, because they continue with cuts in aspects that are basic to improve people's lives, such as health, education, or how dependent people should be. And here's a question to which I think you should answer, because you make a statement about the debt of this country that, at last, I see you have to believe very much your propaganda to be able to say what you said in this gallery. They came to tell us something like that you little Galician indebted. Of course, they triple the public debt of this country and we have to be grateful to them! Thank you for that, Counselor? [[Applause]] What do they leave us with an inheritance of 15 billion euros that will have to pay other generations? [[Applause]] Because that's what his government is doing. [[Applause]] Look, this is the evolution of debt in relation to GDP. By 360%, if we measure it with this indicator, that's what you've raised your debt. So I don't know what good management they're talking to us about because it's the Government that most mortgaged Galicia and it's the Government that most indebted to us from the last 40 years of this country's history. Indeed, the existence of debt has reason, and we have to analyze what those reasons are. First of all, we have an unfair funding system, of course! But that financing system which has signed it was Mr Feijóo, who is now absent in this debate. And in that financing system — which had to be reviewed four years ago — you were applauding all the delays and failures of Mr. Rajoy, and we still don't know what your proposal is in this matter. [[Applause]] Because you're critical of BNG's claiming that we have a Welsh farm to collect all taxes and have more resources for health care, education and dependence, but we don't know what your proposal is. Another reason why we have such an important deficit in funding is that during these years of the crisis, it has been attacked very much and limited to the limited capacity that we also had in financial matters. There was a process of recentralization which led the State to capture many of the resources that could be made available during the years of the crisis, and no such resources were used either to safeguard health, or to safeguard education, or much less to care for dependents. What the PP's government did during those years was to increase military spending, that's what they spent on these resources during this time. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And thirdly, we have this problem because the government isn't using the tax capacity it has to generate more revenue and put in place a fair tax. Fair taxation means to us that those who have the most pay and the incomes of the capital pay the most. Because in this crisis we also saw more and more workers and the large incomes of the capital suffer less, and there is a accumulation of wealth which, of course, goes against any principle of equality and solidarity. And that's why we tell them, if we need more resources, how do you understand that you now give them a tax gift of twelve million euros to the highest incomes with that discount on the estate tax? Do you know how many teachers and teachers could hire with those resources? Almost 300 teachers and teachers to take care of our children. But there are other policies that could be done in this area, we are going to propose them in our amendment. Really raise the burden of IRPF to the highest incomes; you can tax companies that are engulfing a large part of the empty housing in our country, like Sareb. Why don't we tax companies that have a large number of homes in our country and that would mean more resources to our economy? We can also tax large commercial areas and allocate those resources to support small and medium-sized trade. We can collect more if we record the sugary drinks, or if we record the high-voltage networks. According to our calculations, with the tax reform proposed by BNG, we would have 200 million euros more; but, of course, its government prefers to cut. We are, Mr. Counsellor, therefore, not in the face of budgets that are going to bring happiness, but in the face of budgets that are antisocial, without a project for the future and that leave us a Galician in precarious, low wages, while the bill of light, gas, gas... we are seeing, therefore, as you leave a Galician where young people emigrate and where older people have the lowest pensions. And they show that we have a government that is installed in the paralysis, that it's a slab for Galicia and that you're not part of the solution; you're part of the problem because you represent a government and a complex president who doesn't trust Galicia's possibilities. And the best evidence is that they don't trust Galician or what we're like Greeks and how Welsh is that economic suffocation to which they have submitted their language in budgets. An accumulated 62% cut in language normalization programs as we see how everything that has to do with language normalization is deteriorating.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u7	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u8	We also see, Counselor, how they are unable to respond in these budgets to the two major mobilising vacancies in our country. Women leave the street on March 8 to claim more equality and you cut 80 percent of the equality funds in a decade. And to pensioners in this country, who bear the second lowest pensions, they keep this autonomic supplement frozen for non-contributory pensions. Indeed, Counselor, these are the budgets of a Government which has no project for this country, which is an empty shell, which does not trust the potentials of the country, and which, far from being a help, is a disaster for Galicia to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Before we continue the debate, we greet the students and students of the first bachelor's degree from the Xelmírez College in Santiago. Welcome to Parliament, as well as to your teachers who accompany you. And now yes, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Leicega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u10	Good morning to all and to all. Counsellor, in relation to your first words, you must remember when the 2018 State budget was approved. And finally, to put him in a position, it seems to me that we left a stable government with an absolute majority, which was Mr. Rajoy's, and that in May, June, it completely changed everything. But precisely the motion of censure indicates that it wasn't. So a little more prudence in assessing the political situation. [[Applause]] And by the way, you forgot to tell us that those 198 million euros that were pending and I don't know that in relation to IVE was a decision by Mr. Montoro, to which you silent for him, silent, while there was no new government. You have to tell everything, Counselor. [[Applause]] Look, this debate is very important. Together is the main economic agent. Not only does he move funds that are 16% of GDP, but he's the biggest employer in the country. And through the recruitments that mobilize at best another 6 percent or 7% of the jobs that exist in Galicia. And, moreover, rule. You, in this law of measures accompanying the budget, amend 29 laws and 6 decrees. So there's a remarkable regulatory capacity. And besides, through the amendments of the People's Party, it turns out that this is still going to increase substantially. And besides, they're an example and a reference for all economic agents. If Join reduces precariousness, there is one message; if it rises certain aspects, there is another message as well. I mean, they're very important. It is a debate that we all care about. But I see, by the absences in their ranks, that this debate is less important than it seems, especially for Galician Union itself. And that's not a good transfer we're making to citizens. Because you know what that denotes? [[Applause]] That budgeting in good measure is not an instrument for action, it is an instrument of propaganda. And that seems to us to be devaluing this Parliament, devaluing its own budgetary debate and devaluing it to you, Counsellor. And that's what happens when we accompany a debate with all solemnity with budgetary changes of such a caliber throughout the exercise, fruit of the executive's own autonomous decision, which then substantially transform the budget that is presented. And before the spokesman who preceded me in the use of the word, he already gave me some data. And the debate on the law of measures accompanying this budget is also an indication of how you see Parliament. It is the first bill to send the Government to this Parliament in 2018, the first. And it changes 28 laws, 20 and so many laws. [[Applause]] So something happens, something has to change. There are three reasons for returning this budget. The first one, that we don't share the diagnosis. We didn't share it in 2017, and in the debate of the state of Autonomy we explained the reasons. We don't share it in 2018 and we're back in the debate of the state of Autonomy giving reasons. We discriminate in the priorities of public policies of this budget, both in revenue and expenditure, and I will explain below, because we believe that much more can be done to reduce inequality, to boost the economy and to strengthen public services. We don't think they're doing all they can with the instruments we have. And thirdly, we believe that the relationship between means and ends is not as effective as possible. They could be done, for the purposes that you proclaim, other things. First, we disagree about the situation. The wounds opened by the crisis are not closed, Counselor. In the debate of the state of Autonomy we indicated the four most worrying fractures: the social fracture, the territorial fracture, the gender fracture and the generational fracture. And none of them are well treated in this budget. And in view of this, we have a good view, which is yours, or that is that of Mr. Núñez Feijóo in the debate of the state of Autonomy. Like -- let's say -- in a panglossian strategy, we're at the best of the worlds possible; in any case with small deficiencies that some fine fit allows to solve. By making a cultural reference, Keynes many years ago in a similar situation from an economic and social point of view was talking about the pessimism of reactionaries, who consider that nothing has to be changed because social balance is very fragile and because everything goes at the very best of the worlds. He also warned us against the pessimism of the other end. Those who believe that the matter is so bad that only a radical, deep, violent change can lead us to a better world. And we're not in a situation or another, we're in a reasonable optimism. We believe this system has weaknesses but it's probably the best compared to any of the others we could have in mind. But he needs substantial reforms. And we're in that deep reformism, a reformism that attacks some of the most remarkable deficiencies that we see today without charging us with the foundations of our political and social system. And we believe that this budget doesn't go around, it's a purchasing budget, which is based on that pessimism of reactionaries who think everything is okay. And I'll try to prove it. In the debate of the state of Autonomy of 2018 we put four examples of aspects on which to reflect and modify public policies. We're talking about demography and employment as symptoms of deep distress in our society. And we talked about the crisis of basic services and the failure to comply with the infrastructure plan as symptoms of a government that did not have enough ambition, which lacked an integrative project and was disconnected from social needs. In demography something has already been said. But let's do what's so fashionable now, the fact check, check the facts. In 2017 there have been the smallest number of births since these were recorded in our history, the smallest!; after there was a local peak in 2008 – in which, by the way, I ruled that Emilio Pérez Touriño that you are so critical. There was a local peak and from there there was a continued decline. But it turns out that in the negative crop balance we find that the historical peak is also given in 2017. Of course, and this after there were three demographic dynamization plans starring by Mr. Manuel Fraga and Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, three plans that were an absolute failure and which, in addition, they intended to have a fair impact on the decisions that families, couples and people had to make about their children. It was a failure, and therefore public policies have to be modified on this issue, and we have to do it with a certain depth because otherwise we would not get good results. By the way, Mr. Feijó is right. In the only place where in statistical terms — if we don't do a very fine analysis — we have some results in relation to immigration. The balance accumulated since 2009 is slightly positive. Look!, with the following cautions: what happens in the emission countries is fundamental. When there is a crisis in Venezuela, given our historical roots, Galicia receives more immigrants; when there is a crisis in Argentina, it receives more immigrants. But that has to do with what's going on in those countries, not with what's going on in us. Because, if we take care of what happens in interregional mobility, it turns out that we continue to export young people and girls who are going to look for the garages to other parts of Spain. And that's what matters, because that's where the conditions of employment are fundamental. And, by the way, praising the People's Party for a good result in terms of immigration is still paradoxical given the position of its party in Spain. It turns out that where they affect, which is in fertility policy, they don't achieve any success; and where they not only affect but have an opposite position is where this allows them to see some positive result. But projections to the future tell us that, with a high probability, we're going to experience a very remarkable demographic decline. I don't dare put a number because the projections themselves are subject to many criteria. But in any case, most likely within a few decades we're squeezing the 2 million inhabitants in Galicia. And our position is that we must make a radical change in the living conditions of young people, which affects employment, affects housing policy, affects social services, affects training — and so does training — if we want to have an opportunity to reverse this strong demographic trend. And at the same time, we must feed an orderly immigration, a controlled immigration and an immigration that will allow, at least in the short term, to solve the population deficits we have. And we don't see a reflection of that in the budget. For example, in 2019 the public housing park which plans to increase the Galician Union increases in the high 3 housing figure — according to the figures of its budget — 3 additional housing in this situation; 0.1 % of what has been approved very recently for five years. But, as was said before, we go to the execution of the housing program, to the last available execution: the execution of 41% in housing matters; a spinal program that has a very execution beneath what is reasonable. And at work we're going to talk now. It is true that Galicia has grown at high rates since 2014, following the pace of Spanish impulse. No more than Spain, like Spain. It's okay. Our private economic agents increase exposure to the international market due to the depression of domestic demand — the private and the public — and wage adjustment favours this because it allows for increased competitiveness even though it is certainly not the fundamental reason. Productivity evolves positively. There are positive factors to highlight. The tail winds are pushing us, though they're running out and this is no longer a problem. But what is the contribution of the Galician Union to this? First, in tax terms this consolidation strategy takes fuel back to growth. That's right. Surely we had to do it, and we didn't disagree with the consolidation strategy, we disagreed with the pace at which it is taking place. But, in any case, take off your fuel. But that is where we can influence from the supply side, in the conditions of competitiveness, which are important in the medium and long term, it turns out that in innovation, training and infrastructure the policy of the Galician Union must take a round turn. And we certainly didn't approve of it. Igape is paralyzed. Executes one out of two euros that are recorded in the budget. We can put a lot more on him. This year's credit increases. But if we don't change the basics, we're going to run a very similar amount last year. And, therefore, what else do we have? Where is the essential reform of the Igape? What about R+D+i? Indeed, we have also increased credits this year, but again the execution is scandalously low. And we have a percentage, even with this increase, which is about half in terms of GDP as much as that of the Basque Country; and much below, in terms of GDP, of what was in 2009 — it's speaking in terms of GDP. We need to solve the execution, we need to reform the structure by integrating everything into a real agency so that this can be solved. They don't, and we can go on like this in other ways. In short, there are budget patches — welcome — but no guarantee of execution. And the organizational responses are insufficient or null. And so we can't be in line with this. As mentioned earlier, the most serious difference is in employment. Spain has more jobs since in 2009; and Galicia, in the last figures, 77,000 jobs less, 77,000! If we were to behave like Spain, we would have 90,000 jobs more than we have now; that is very important, 90,000 jobs is an additional 9% and it would mean that we can give all the young people we have unemployed, everyone! Which is a very serious figure. And the youth employment initiative funded by the European Union and which has run the Employment Council still deserves an evaluation of this Parliament. There was no balance, because I suppose the councilman doesn't want to come here in the face of having to defend such an absolute failure. Industrial jobs fall. The youth activity rate is lower than Spanish. There's a remarkable fall in the total number of young girls living in Galicia, and yet the rate of activity is lower than Spain. You yourself, Counsellor, when you presented the budgets in a radio interview, you recognized that precariousness was a very serious problem: 9 out of every 10 signed contracts are temporary — also in Spain —; 2 out of every 3 jobs created since 2014, since the beginning of recovery, they are temporary; all employment for children under 30 is temporary and all public employment created since 2014 is a temporary job, everything! In these conditions, how are young people going to take forward their vital project? How can we ask them to continue to invest in training, to undertake professional careers in the country, if we are offering them this panorama? So, for us, giving a horizon to youth is a basic priority, and that means acting in education and employment. The priority for FP, for dual FP, is to give everyone — including those going to public schools — an opportunity to leave the foreigner to improve their language management. Freeness in the first university degree, the reinforcement of scholarship policies for the masters, for the masters, all this, is an absolute necessity if we want to give youth a future. I've spoken before the housing policy, but there must also be a clear Galician union policy on precariousness. And we know they're doing something, but it's very insufficient. You have to go further and you have to develop the social clauses of recruitment by introducing limits to precariousness through that route, because that will allow sectors around the board that are not part of your body to have a positive evolution as well. This is what we ask them to do, because precariousness discourages the training of workers, because it discourages the involvement of workers. And in the work context that we have, these are two basic variables. We also don't agree with your management of basic services in this budget. They evolve in 2019 under nominal GDP, they evolve under total budgetary expenditure. If we take into account the impact of inflation on purchases, wage commitments — which are good even if they are too late — and the burden of public-private commitments, the budgetary margin for strengthening public services is minimal. There's not going to be a substantial improvement in services, it's not planned in the budget. And, therefore, what citizens will perceive as the action of the Galician Union will be a repetition, at best, of last year. I can't stop much, but I'll give you two examples. Support for the study increases by 1.17% below the IPC; therefore, we are reducing public support in this area. The building of centers is very insufficient. And in health Galicia, which, according to the perception of its citizens, is the third worst public health in the autonomous communities — and 75% of people think there should be changes in Sergas — what we say to them is that primary care has a very ridiculous increase, with immediate effects. I took the staff sections of 2018 and 2019, and compared them, we see that there is a fall in primary care, a fall!, in staff scheduled for 58; and in a context of economic recovery where the advisor tells us there is a considerable reinforcement of public services. But it turns out we're going to the figures that they themselves put in budgets and there's a fall of 58 people in primary care. That is the message that we are giving to the citizens, that we are giving to the staff that is mobilized in the CAP, and not so much for wage improvements as for an organizational change and resources that enables us to strengthen primary care, which is the gateway to the system and is the one that is now better suited to chronicity and that allows us to reduce tensions over other parts of the system — which are much more expensive, as we all know. [[Applause]] And precariousness is a scourge that is corroding the effectiveness of the health system. The other day I was with a girl, who didn't know, who told me that in ten years he had more than 600 contracts in Sergas, more than 600! It leaves at an average of 60 a year. And she thought she was lucky. That's the situation we have today. There are about 25% of Sergas workers who are precarious, who are slaves to the lists, with professional discouragement, who have to be pending the entire year of a call because, if they are not available, they go back and stop working. And that's the situation we're condemning our youth. And health research foundations are already a scandal. They have to integrate into the board budget. We make an amendment in that sense, which we hope they collect, because you know that you are being used to give low-cost care functions by hiring those people who finish the MIR, who end the FIR, the PIR or whatever, to meet care needs and not to do their health research work. They have to be integrated into the budget, but above all they have to give satisfaction to those workers. We can follow in other matters, such as social services, where there is an excessive dependence on transfers from the state. This is what enables you to reinforce your economic allocation but does not allow you to suture the wounds — which there are too many still in Galicia —, it does not allow you to suture those wounds, nor does it allow you to solve the problem of residences, so many times announced, but they still do not have a concrete formulation in the budget. There's a general forecast, but they don't have names and surnames, and so we're rather skeptical about the possibility that they're put into practice in 2019. It seems more like an instrument of ubiquitous propaganda that allows you to travel to the country before the municipal elections announcing residences everywhere and then not to do anything. And we don't like that. And the infrastructure, one more year, is preserved. I was saying in the debate of the state of autonomy that the Galician Union took off the towel. And this year it pulls it a little further, because it turns out that the program corresponding to the construction of infrastructures goes down by 7 million. At a time when the advisor says we're going to make a huge public capitalisation effort, that decisive program falls into seven million. But it's a lot worse if we analyze what happens in one budget after another. The reprogramming of roads is phenomenal. The construction planned for 2018 of the most important road infrastructures had budgeted 10 million euros in that year and provided 42.5 for 2019. What happened? Nothing was executed, asymptotically, we said, the runlevel is zero for 2018, Ah! and is scheduled for 2019 and instead of 42.5 million, the current forecast is 14. That's what happens from year to year. The North Coast VAC in 2018 is expected to have 4.4 million, and zero execution. In 2019, 10 million. The forecast for 2019 now, in this new budget, is 3 million. It's reduced to 7. We're talking about the Coruña intermodal, we're talking about any other important infrastructure, that's what happens. The Move Plan is not that it moves people, it is not that it moves goods in Galicia in better conditions; what is moving are budgetary resources from one injury to another without executing them, and allowing the Board to say, year after year, that it will do more and more. And road infrastructure is important not only because it improves the living conditions of citizens and because it connects and integrates, but also because, in a small and demographically limited country like ours, it allows us to generate a mass effect that is absolutely necessary for competitiveness. [[Applause]] And you loaned me capital formation. But if gross training has not been able to overcome the barrier of billions since 2011! To give a reference, in that evil government of Mr. Touriño of 2008 was over two billion euros — with net liabilities zero, eh!—. I'm talking about the year 2008. And now you assume we're under a billion. More importantly, this year's gross capital formation comes down, he forgot to tell us. Go down, yes, yes, go down to the budget figures. I have them here, we can check them out later. And gross capital formation expresses the Union's commitment to the modernization of the country on its own and autonomous bases. And when a budget lacks ambition and the bet on the future is very shallow, because that's what happens. Mr. Julio Camba spoke of an old Minister of Development, of Pontevedra, Mr. Besada. And he said his work was a work of canterry, because where he passed he left a road, a dock, a relevant work. I believe, Counselor, that neither you nor Mr. Núñez Feijóo will ever compare them to Besada, because they would not give the size in this sense. [[Applause]] But let's talk a little bit about income policy before it's over. The official version is known: "superman" Feijóo took a broken Galician Union, and, with enormous effort of austerity and exemplary determination, he managed to bring us to the current beaches of prosperity, balance, stability, etc. He crossed the sea of tears following the white rabbit and bringing us here, a sort of "Alberto in the country of wonders." It's a heroic flap, an account, at last, very interesting. The only problem you have is that it's a fantastic story, because it's fake. And to see it, we only need to go to the swings of the Galician Union. The 2008 balance sheet tells us the following: long-term creditors, 3,381 million; reserves, 5,546; own funds, 4,384 million euros. In 2017: long-term creditors, 10,603 million; reserves, 1,272 — practically liquidated 80% of the reserves they took — and own funds, negative, with a result of the exercise also negative by 281 million; official figures that you signed. But it's just that the Galician Union has had a negative result in all exercises since 2010. And in 2009 famous, where you say it was broken, it turns out that this year 2009 has a positive result of two hundred and a peak of millions of euros, a positive result. And you, the result is negative, and triple the debt, reduce the reserve substantially and without just raising the value of the immobilized. What would we say, in business terms, if we took this situation? Then it turns out that the official speech is that others will waste and the Galician Union is an example of saving. And what the data indicates is just the opposite. There was a huge debt without having the ability to prepare the future, that's what happened. Then we can put all his cautions on him, and other autonomous communities did the same thing, we had a very difficult situation... yes, but you yourself assume it's been five years, five years, growing at very high rates. Therefore, five years of weak cows but five years of growth at high rates. They're already compensated. From now on, they can't say the same thing anymore. And what about the public-private concessions that both Mr. President and Mrs. Infrastructure Advisor tell us that this is an inheritance from the previous government? But it turns out that two-thirds of the burden that is pending is the result of contracts from the time of Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, who also expanded the matter to basic services, as Vigo hospital. And at Vigo hospital, which had a cost of 325 million euros in the 2012 budget, in the end we're going to pay nearly 800 -- from that management -- with an implicit interest rate of 8%. That's Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo's management. [[Applause]] And, therefore, in connection with obeisance, we share that it is appropriate to respect the rules, but it is also appropriate not to let it pass by. It is appropriate to comply with the rules, but when the European Commission gives us a margin of indebtedness within Community rules, why not use it? That's the big question, especially when we're not in a normal economic cycle, but we're coming out of the worst recession we've had in eight decades. Why don't we do it if we're paying too little for the new debt ratio and if the debt-GDP ratio would keep going down despite those two additional tenths? There are plans to choose that would allow self-debtedness to be paid. So why don't you do it? And I'm going to dedicate a little bit to fiscal policy. Your fiscal policy has a significant impact on redistribution, but when it inciduates it's regressive. And I'm going to explain why in the 2019 budget. The property tax provides for a fall in collection as a result of a 20% drop in types. But the figures from the Tax Agency tell us that taxpayers who pay the estate tax are 0.25% of Galician citizens. We're not talking about 1% versus 99%, no, we're talking about 0.25% versus 99.75% that don't pay. They're those contributors, those contributors and not others. Are the middle classes? The taxable base is over 5.5 million euros in average, and a very high proportion of it, because around 90%, it's real estate values, it's shares. The middle class? We're talking about the greatest fortunes, we're talking about the cream of our society's cream, and it's not about making them pay too much. Do you know how much money they pay in wealth tax? This is an average of 10,000 euros a year, which is what each of these taxpayers has, I say, a declared wealth, for tax purposes, of 5.5 million euros. And to these taxpayers you say you have to lower them by 20%. That's what you're going to approve with your votes in this budget, and that's what you have to explain to the citizens. And you also have to explain to us what is the economic issue you want to solve with that downside. Because, no doubt, it weakens the state of well-being and no doubt is launching a message that is not prudent. But there'll be some reason. I'd like to hear it. And of the rest of the incentives, we can share many ends, but look at it: investment in the alternative market stock market, tax benefit, 3,000 euros; investment in the acquisition of new companies, 76,000; creation or expansion of new companies, 50,000; reduction in the acquisition of agricultural holdings in grants, 4,000 euros. In other words, with EUR 133,000 compared to the 12 million in wealth savings, it aims to focus on the pace and profile of business creation. It's a drop of water in the ocean, that's nothing, Counselor. That's pure electoral marketing. It can be cheap in terms of marketing because it allows you to do several press rounds and convince innuendos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u12	But we, although we can share the ends, consider this to be irrelevant. And there is a final question — half a minute, Mr President — that I will exemplify in the General Secretariat of Equality. There's a remarkable budgetary reinforcement — it's true — that's good. But almost everything comes from state funds. The policies in which we agree, and which you prioritize, are policies that are being reinforced since the State Administration with finalist transfers. And we talked about equality, but we could also talk about employment, we could talk about housing, or we could talk about dependence. [[Applause]] And that — which is good — is priorities that others set and that, instead, reduce the autonomy of the Galician Union, which lets itself rule by others. I'll finish now. We call for the return of these budgets for all these reasons, because they do not reinforce the parties sufficiently to resolve the shortcomings of our society, because they do not strongly wage for the modernization of our economic structure, but also for the regression in tax matters, which, of course, is a serious set of these budgets for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u13	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u14	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Counsellor, some forgetfulness, some silences, some omissions in connection with your own speech also give an idea of what your economic policy is, and they give an idea of what the social policy and social sensibility of the Galician Union are presenting today's budgets. There is no explicit mention of the word "precarity", of precariousness, which is what afflicts many homes in our country and many citizens and citizens, even many of them who cannot be in our country today. Not an explicit mention of the word "inequality" — social inequality, work inequality, gender inequality, inequality of opportunity... — which will not be seen closed as a result of budgets that continue to grow these cracks. Therefore, it is an explicit and implicit message of despair, of hopelessness for new people, which is not reflected in those budgets in search of a solution for their needs, and where the only thing offered is the door to emigration to look for the opportunities that you don't generate with these budgets. It is also a despair for all those people who don't arrive at the end of the month, for all those people who do numbers, and to whom the month is too long for their wages — when they have wages — with wages and a situation, or a ability to arrive at the end of the month, which is not supported by budgets that at all meet these needs. It is therefore an budget and a speech — made today by the Counsellor — of social injustice. Budgeting is the economic support of policies. They don't refer to these policies to combat either inequality or precariousness, they don't mean people. You came here to make a bad count of numbers and now we'll have to explain to them what this means to people. By the way -- and talking about people -- the 48 minutes that lasted your speech is at minute 43 when you say, "Well, let's talk about people now." Well, from En Marea we say from minute 1: let's talk about people when we're talking about budgets; from a budget cycle that has always seemed to us, and that continues to look like us, unfair in its own formulation. The budgetary process had to start here with a political debate about what needs we have to meet outside Parliament, what needs we have to satisfy citizens and citizens. What do they need? What rights do we have to satisfy? That is what we have to talk about here in this House, and from then on we have to quantify those needs. How much does it cost to satisfy those rights? From there we have to make an account of where the wealth of our country is, because there is wealth. Repeat it constantly: the crisis has passed, the recession has passed, we have the same wealth or more than ever in our history. It is true in terms of GDP. And what does that later translate into budgets that meet social needs? Nothing! That was to be the course of budgetary development: first, to know what competences we have, what rights we have to satisfy, what social needs there is, how much this costs and where wealth is; and then to make budgets that collect wealth where it is to put it where it is missing. The redistribution of income and wealth, social budgets, that's what you lack in the speech you just made. It is a speech which is also incomplete in political terms, because in Marea you will not be able to debate all your political proposals here, because you have suffered an initial veto in the Bureau of Parliament: the impossibility of discussing what to do in full with the money of the Greeks and the Greeks. In fact, because of the direct application of Article 135.3 of the Spanish Constitution, we will not be able to debate what we want to do with part of that money you spend on debt. That money you spend on debt, returning some money to the banks -- affected by a hole that didn't cause people but caused their bad policies -- we can't allocate it to certain social investments. We would at least want to be able to debate that, although most of us would then vote otherwise; but we would like to be able to formulate here a political and economic alternative that put people above Angela Merkel, above the return of money to the German banks, above all other priorities that are not the priorities of the whole of Greek citizenship. And we can't do it. You say, in order to justify the fall in wealth tax — this fall infamous for the richest assets that will make those people who have a declared heritage of more than 10 million euros in Galicia will have a tax gift on their part of about 40,000 euros — that the crisis has passed. You said, "The crisis has happened and that's why we're doing that downside." Well, the recession happened, the crisis didn't happen. Because for many people, rights have not returned. And we got the reforms. Among them, the 135th, which prevents us from debating in depth what we would like to do with the money of the Greeks and the Greeks, which we are sure would prefer to invest them in more teachers, in more health workers, in more and better attention to dependency; and not in paying the interest of loans that we should never have asked if there were other policies at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, the general budgets for the 2019 financial year presented by the Union consolidate — in our opinion — cuts in public expenditure already made in previous years; in particular, in the period 2010 to 2014. That's the fundamental reason why En Marea will vote 'no' for this budget proposal next year. The Greek economy, as well as in the state as a whole and in the Union itself, has begun an accist phase of the cycle — recognised unanimously from 2014 onwards —. It took us five years, but the gross domestic product is above the level before the double recession, both in real and nominal terms. A decade lost, certainly, as a result of the neoliberal policy of spending cuts and wage devaluation, with very negative effects on the lives of those who still continue. This is the central reason for En Marea's rejection of these budgets: the return to economic growth does not move in the well-being of citizenship. We have the same level of wealth and it is necessary to repeat and it is necessary to know socially that we have the same level of wealth as in 2009 but that this wealth is poorly distributed because the neoliberal management of the crisis has caused a redistribution of income against the majority of society to benefit the elite. A few have benefited from the loss of many. We have more wealth but less budget; that is, less resources for the well-being of citizenship and for the capitalization of our country. Expressed in nominal values — by giving some figures — the macroeconomic framework accompanying the budget of the Union estimated at EUR 66,000 million and the GDP of Galicia by 2019. This figure is the largest in history and exceeds 9.500 million to 2009. However — despite this — the budget of the non-financial expenditure for next year is actually lower by 611 million to 2009. More wealth but less public spending, more wealth but less share, more wealth but less resources for people, to finance health care, to finance the health staff we lack in the CAP, to finance the professor we lack in education — in Brión, in Portomarín, in Lugo, in Coruña... — to social protection, employment policy and even in investment. The final result is loss of public weight in the economy. Measured through the public-GDP spending rate, in 2009 Junta managed 18.5% of the wealth produced in Galicia and now is going to be 14.9 per cent; a fall of 3.6 points up to the chilly of 2,300 million euros. That's what you stop redistributing as a result of your way of doing politics. The 2019 budgets can in no case be described as expansives, as in some cases they have been tempted to say, as non-financial expenditure increases by 3.8% compared to 2018, and therefore grows below the nominal GDP growth forecast for 2019. It's an increase, therefore, for us, disappointing and insufficient to recover from the cuts in the acute phase of austerity. It's 363 million more, but it's barely worth covering a minimum part of that huge hole of 2,000 million euros that we've suffered since 2009. Let the budget grow below what the economy does means the continuity of the policy of cuts but under a different formula. In the recession the budget fell nominally and now grows below GDP. The result is a renunciation of the cuts and also a reduction in the role of the public in the provision of services of the economy; ultimately, of redistribution. For us this is an absolutely unacceptable evolution, because the cuts are consolidated in budgets, they become permanent, they get chronicated. If after six years of GDP growth we only progress in resource recovery, the question is, when are we going to do so? Let's see now where it stops spending on the Galician board. The specific figures make it possible to quantify the decline in public resources. In 2019, Junta will have 363 million euros more than in 2018, but with 2,500 million euros less than in 2009. That's why we say that the budgets consolidate the cuts, the downturn in the overall figure, which becomes more obvious when we analyze the different spending functions. We're going to review with you now the main expenditure functions, and in the replica shift it will say whether or not. Look, health expenditure is less than EUR 549 million than in 2009, a reduction equivalent to 13% in real terms — tell me in real terms, not nominally, in real terms about the initial figure. In education, the retreat is 413 million euros, which means a 15% cut. The drop is still higher in infrastructure, which loses 48% of its amount, and no longer invests 331 million euros. We have a similar figure in terms of employment policies as well. We are glad that at last this time you say you have the ability to significantly affect employment with your budgets. Well, look, in order to be that way, despite being the main problem of citizenship, Junta will spend in 2019 EUR 221 million less than in 2009 — a 46% retreat in real terms. The housing policy virtually disappears in budgetary terms because 66% has been cut since 2009. The evolution of Part No. 71 also shows the reality that it hides itself after the propaganda discourse of the "rural legislation", and causes economic dynamization to lose 151 million euros, which is a 32% downturn; a deterioration in rural policies that is aggravated by the backwardness of rural actions and evaluation, which loses 64 million euros in real terms over the 2009 figure. The same is true of other relevant activities in the primary sector, because resources for fisheries policy, for example, fall into nearly 100 million euros, with a 49%, again, in real terms. Fewer budgets also for economic policy, because resources for industry, energy and mining fall by 26%; business development falls by 31%; trade support policies by 61%; and tourism budgeting — despite creating advice this year — is going to be 32% lower than in 2009. There are setbacks which also seriously affect other non-economic issues, such as culture, which lose 56% of their resources — many of them buried in that mammoth, which is the City of Gaiás. In real terms it also falls for linguistic normalization. Linguistic normalization falls to the extent that the number of spokespersons in Galicia also falls, especially between youth, with a 68% cut already, at the moment, small budgets. It is the same for the territory, because function 54, of environmental actions, loses 65% of the resources it had in 2009; a cut of 220 million euros to which the 43 million euros that cease to invest in function 52, in spatial planning, which thus loses 73% of the resources in relation to 2009 in real terms. Why do we insist in 2009? Because you're continually saying that we already have the same wealth as in 2009, the same wealth as before the crisis. Well, we want some budgets up to that wealth, we want to redistribute the money available, the wealth in the country, according to people's needs. And it's not good for us to consolidate inequality and for a few to live much better at the expense of a worse social majority. Social dividend, in addition, has a source of income evolution -- we also want to put an end to this, and now see, in part of the income, why these expenses are so -- that is unacceptable to us. Both in the year 2019 and in the path that has been following since 2015 are growing these budgets below nominal GDP, which means losing public weight in the economy. And it prevents this from regaining the level of available resources prior to the recession despite the fact that GDP is already higher. The reasons for this negative evolution are several, of course. One is the malfunction of the system of funding for autonomous communities. Of course, you have been ruling seven years — four of them with absolute majority — in the State Parliament and have not been able to solve the financing problem of autonomous communities. And now they come to point it out as one of the problems we have to fund ourselves. Another is an unacceptable decline in the Interterritorial Compensation Fund and other capital transfers. And — and this is for us most relevant in political terms — a decisive and relevant role in the fiscal policy applied by both the Central Government and, in this case, by the Council of Galicia. And it must be said quite clearly: the neoliberal fiscal policy of the People's Party has led to the fiscalization of capital incomes, business profits and large assets. I mean, the crisis was good for the rich, because it was the excuse you had to stop paying taxes, of course. This tax desertion — which cannot be called otherwise — has reduced public revenues from the richest, but has also disbalanced the tax burden, so that the majority of society is now paying twice its disastrous economic policies. First of all, because the majority of society bears a higher tax burden, that of which you exempt the wealthiest by reducing their income tax. And in addition, they also pay the consequences because they receive the worst majority of social services and worse social protection. So everyone can understand us, what is this? Either you go to the emergency room or a CAP and you don't find any medical equipment. That's what your economic policy translates into practice, which you present here in a consolidated way year after year. [[Applause]] In the 2019 budget the tax discount propaganda continues to occupy a central place, we just saw it. On the contrary, we have to make the complete picture of this popular party tax strategy in recent years. We have to explain everything. First, income fell significantly; secondly, debt increased as never in our history; and thirdly, it reversed public spending, which suffered severe cuts. But yet you say there's a margin to lower taxes. The official statement of the presentation of the budgets said: "The tax benefits include all those incomes that the Galician Union decides not to perceive." You decide not to earn the richest! For what? So we still have to endure shortages in essential services? Is that why you decide not to receive the income of the wealthiest? By giving the budget data good, in 2019 the tax benefits will reach 430 million euros, to which the accumulated 1,9 billion from 2012 to 2018 will have to be added. And now we ask you, Counsellor, how much of the public debt corresponds to these tax rebates, with these incomes that the Board decides not to perceive? For everyone to understand it, when you forgive the rich, when you make tax rebates, when you make tax gifts to them — those tax gifts to those who have more than 10 million euros in their wealth — and say you lower taxes, you're charging it to the public debt. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, a debt we're going to have to pay all and all not now but in the next few years. You benefit very few in wealth tax to carry it over many. And are you proud of this economic policy, this fiscal policy? This fiscal policy is unfair, it's a fiscal policy that carries the benefits of the rich on the shoulders of the popular classes. And this for us is absolutely unacceptable. You have to ask yourself, and you have to ask yourself, what cuts in health and education were caused by these lower incomes? Because — and we repeat — what is not paid by taxes is paid either with cuts or with more debt. The fiscal policy that has been applied in these years and which is still present here in the 2019 budget has a profound ideological bias of a conservative nature. Because reducing taxes always benefits the richest and cutting public spending always harms the weakest. This is the option: to choose taxation and public spending for the elite or for the majority social. And yours is a clear example of a tax policy for the rich, because the fundamental measure is to lower the tax on wealth, i.e. the taxation of people who have a net worth of more than 700,000 euros. What is not paid by taxes is paid with cuts or debt, and therefore, as a result of this fiscal policy, public debt will not fall but will rise again in another 238 million euros this year. And we explain why. Next year, Junta will issue a new debt of 1,768 million euros to pay 1,530 million euros that are due this year. Right? Right, right? Well, this is the reality, asking for new loans to pay the loans they win. Using budget data, function 91, public debt, will have an allocation of EUR 1,675 million, equivalent to 14.5% of the total budget. In 2018 11.4% had been allocated; therefore, its propaganda about the debt downturn because it's just propaganda. Since they rule, function 91 has multiplied its weight by 5 times in the budget; that is, we now spend 5 times more resources on debt service. There is an indebtedness that also reflects the overcost in which Junta has been charged with banks instead of addressing the state financing mechanisms that the State has made available to autonomous communities as of 2014, to a lower interest rate than on the market. For everyone to understand it too: a family, when you're going to buy a house, seek out the banks to see what kind of mortgage it gives you; you went to the highest instead of going to the lowest. What family would do that? None! Why did you do it? Because they played with other people's money. So, of course, you could go to the public funding mechanism, to the FLA, to obtain resources for a lower interest than in the private market, than in the private bank. But they didn't. Why didn't they? To say they didn't go to public funding mechanisms. Does the FLA suppose the intervention of the Greek accounts? No, sir! And here we prove it, with the BOE on the table. Where was it that, if the deficit targets were met, they had to intervene in the public accounts? Anywhere? But you preferred not to go. And that financial overburden that caused his attitude I assumed a loss of income, I assumed, in this sense, an overcost of 549 million euros, 549 million euros! And now they're proud that, of course, they're going to save money because they're in line with the public funding mechanism. Welcome! Welcome! Already In Marea told them in 2016 that they would have to do it at that moment. They would have saved EUR 549 million. The crisis, but above all the neoliberal management of the crisis, caused a deep imbalance in the primary distribution of income, that is, of wages and benefits. But also a secondary distribution, an unfair redistribution in that secondary division, which is done through the actions of public administrations, the tax system and the public expenditure; an unfair redistribution of wealth that explains that this time economic growth only moves to well-being, as demonstrated also that, after five years of acquittal phase, 94% of the Greek citizenship considers the economic situation to be regular, bad or very bad. People behind numbers, and people's opinions behind numbers. You hide in numbers, and we're committed and committed to talking about people. Let's go back to your speech. Do we have the same wealth as before the crisis? Yes, but it's worse distributed. We have the same level of wealth but less employment, more precarious work and worse wages. These are people, this is the reality behind their numbers: in Galicia there are 120,000 jobs less than before the recession, and 60,000 less than in 2009, when they started ruling. Fewer jobs and, in addition, worse quality, because half the working class is already precarious. There are 153,000 unemployed people, 67,000 more than before the recession, and many of them are long-term unemployed. There are, moreover, 53,000 homes with all their members unemployed and, within them, 32,000 who have no employment income, no salary, no pension or unemployment benefit; 32,000 homes that have to do more than malabares to arrive at the end of the month! People who don't reach the end of the month, people who have difficulty meeting their basic needs, people who have difficulty lighting up the heating now that winter comes, people who have difficulties and that in many cases, especially younger people, there's no choice but to take the suitcase and leave. And that's what you're hiding in these budgets. Wages. Wages averaged 8%. That's the kind of job that's being created thanks to its economic and employment policies. But besides, the most precarious have lost at this time 25% of their purchasing power. I mean, people who worked before the crisis and who are now working on similar jobs are charging 25% less. And these are official data. Are you satisfied with this situation, with the precariousness of the material living conditions of people? These are the budgets you like? Is this the healthy growth? It'll be healthy for you, but for most social people it's not! [[Applause]] Let's talk straight. About 450,000 employees have income under the €900, and 1 out of every 3 employees in Greece is in labour poverty. Poverty that also affects self-employed people, because 55% declare income under 500 euros a month. 44% of the Greek homes enter less than 1,500 euros a month adding the income of all their members. And in 2017 families spent, on average, 3,600 euros annually less than in 2008, a 25% drop in real spending. There are — and they are official data — 612,000 people at risk of poverty or social exclusion, who have not been lied to by the Counsellor. We have an AROPE rate of 23%, which means that 1 in 4 people in our country is in this situation, which has not been mentored by the Counsellor either. 63% of the pensions are below the poverty line, something that has not been lied to by the Counsellor; poor pensioners who, in the case of widow's pensions, reaches up to 81% — by the way — with a gap in the perception of the pension between women and men of 50% — for whom you have not had any mention either. Is this what you're talking about when you talk about healthy growth? Is this the healthy growth you would like for your own family? No, right? Well, we don't want it for any Galician family. It's a model of growth, besides, that leaves behind a very important part of the population, something that we can't qualify for healthy growth. It's a model, for us, insanity, exclusive, unfair, insolidary, antisocial. We already have the same GDP as before the recession but much worse distributed, so we have a society that is more unfair, more unequal, with more poverty, with less labour rights, with less employment, with less unemployment, with lower wages and more precariously worked than before falling into the pit of the double recession. The budget project presented by Junta does not serve to respond to this situation, and that's why we evaluate them as disappointing, as restrictive and, yes, as mediocre, as antisocial, as continuityists and as neoliberals. And they're not worth improving the quality of life of the citizenry or starting to turn them around to cuts either to boost economic activity or to get back to work. It is a project of budgets which is restrictive and which will cause an intense slowdown in economic growth, according to the predictions of the Galician Union itself — which does nothing, on the other hand, to reverse it — a budget that increases less than the nominal gross domestic product, and therefore actually reduces the resources for public services, services, social protection and capitalisation of the country. Finally, a budget of hopelessness. In front of this neoliberal model, we propose from the Marea to advance on a different path, by a path based on an inclusive growth model that leaves no one at all at a standstill and, therefore, that it be more fair and more solid; by budgets that bet on improved activity in sectors of greater added value — especially, with an important weight in industrial branches — that make the productivity of all the factors — that of the work included, Mr Counsellor — the instrument of competitiveness of companies and the country, which would allow — in our opinion — to recover stable and with rights as a rule and not as an exception. Is it necessary to thank you for having an indefinite contract and not to concatenate 11 consecutive contracts to work for a year? That's the average that a Welsh woman has to be signing, at contract level, to work a consecutive year, according to official data. Yes, yes, it's official data; if not, go up here and round it up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] With decent wages, yes, with decent wages, not with precarious wages, on which the welfare state can be maintained thanks to taxes and contributions. Faced with the wage devaluation model as a factor of competition, our proposal is the boost of domestic demand, with more and better employment, with decent wages and better social benefits, as a factor of growth, and productivity as a sustainable way, in the medium and long term, of our country's external competitiveness. The growth of economic activity is in the logic of speech. So, what's the role of politics? The role of politics and rulers — in this case you — must shift this wealth increase from GDP to people's rights recovery. For the last ten years they've cut rights. Give us back! Give us back! This is our budget proposal: to return rights to people. We have the right to live better, to have stable jobs, with decent wages, that are the norm, and not the exception. We have the right to recover the quality levels of public services. To have better social protection for pensioners, for unemployed or dependent people. Reducing poverty and inequality; having a public protection network that ends with evictions or energy poverty. We are ultimately entitled to a fair country. Faced with this resignation of cuts and permanent adjustment, we demand and commit ourselves to an ambitious position of the Galician Union with the objective of increasing the budget by EUR 400 million — and this line comes to our amendment — by improving incomes in order to finance an economic policy that boosts growth; that it transforms it into economic but also social development, based on a productive, non-speculative economy; that it transfers the greatest wealth and well-being to citizenship, by combating inequality, precariousness, poverty and exclusion. As a result of the advance, we cannot do anything else, from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, which explains that there are more than enough reasons to reject the general budget project of the 2019 autonomous community as a whole, and we ask for its return to the Government to make others who — this time yes — take people into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. Mr. Martínez García has the floor. We suspended two minutes, just the session and continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u16	We resumed the session. Mr. Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u17	Good morning again. Thank you, Mr President, for this momentary interruption. I really appreciate the tone of the various interventions of the opposition groups' spokespersons, with a different impact, and I have to admit that quite well-structured. And taking up a little again Mrs. Pontón's words, I also wanted to use that of Marmot's Day in the Government's arguments. Don't look at this as much Marmot Day as evolution and persistence with certain reforms that we're introducing year by year into the fundamental lines. What is true is that the arguments I heard today were quite predictable, so I think that Marmot Day, by the opposition, has a much larger corollary and force. By the way, without making any kind of shrapnel, it seems to me that the last TV show on Marmot's Day didn't end so badly. So let's say that sometimes certain shrapnels are made, based on certain questions, they don't necessarily have to conclude badly, Mrs. Pontón. What is true is that some kind of argument in the group that you represent is essentially the same one that almost 40 years ago. That is to keep not the Marmot Day anymore, but the decade and decade of the Marmot! But well, it's quite normal. In principle, you also said that we are in a happy Arcadia. Would you refer to the demographic crisis? Welcome to the club! There is not so much that from certain groups the demographic issue was not a top-level issue. Welcome! That's what we've been saying since 2009. One thing is to put the different means and have the performances with everyone's participation, because in this nobody has the truth, and put the conditions in which people want to live and have children in Galicia and want to come; not only must they have children, but they must come, the concept of immigration. I understand what you also referred to a lot at the end of this first intervention, and, if I have time, I would also like to explain, once again, my opinion on this matter. There's also a very recurring issue, and not for long do we have to take it as formulated, with different sensitivity, each of the three groups, which is the subject of employment. From my words, and also from the interventions of other members of the Government, they can never deduce that we self-purchasing ourselves in this so-called happy Arcadia — I also named you, Mrs. Pontón — when we have to bear in mind that there are still many people who want to work and don't have jobs, that there are still many people who want to improve their work and still don't have it, in any way! But it cannot be denied that at this moment, little by little — and no longer so long ago — the trend is that there is a differential in the concept of employment, not so much in the absolute magnitude but rather in the quality of that job: it's called part-time or full-time employment, better behavior in the last two years than in the state; it's called indefinite, better behaviour; it's called wage matter, there's a slightly higher increase in Galicia than in the average of Spain. Still, in no way can we be satisfied. But one thing is not to be satisfied and another to notice that little by little, with an evolutionary character, we are making it better, as society, always. As well as another theme that is a classic: the subject of emigration. When we re-examine the subject of emigration, we see that Galicia — year 2016-year 2017 — is, in comparative terms, the community that presents more childish immigration rates by adding the two effects, which is how we have to look at things, without any kind of demeaning people coming from third countries where we are. So when we analyze the global component -- that's the third year that's positive, the previous three were negative, and historically it's always been positive about emigration -- or when we confront the theme of the structure of those people who go out or come to be with us, it turns out that we're always at positive rates. When we're talking about poverty -- and I'm going to comment on this a little bit more about the kids in a moment -- some group just introduced the AROPE rate here, and you have to have some cold blood to say what's said here. When we see the AROPE rate, people at risk of poverty or exclusion, the result we have today is better in Galicia than what we have in Spain. And as for the reference that some groups made, in magical terms, over 2009 and 2008, it turns out that then the index was worse than what we have today. So the index was higher than what they had in Spain, today we have less, and it turns out that it's about transmitting this message that everything goes wrong, from this almost Dickensian world. Allow me not to sympathize with reality just by using what you have used, Mr. En Marea, Mr. Villares, the theme of the AROPE fee. I say, there's something that might not happen. Because if you look at the AROPE rate and look — regarding the magic year 2008-2009 — what is the Autonomous Community of Galicia, it turns out that, when everything was done so well, it was a worse index than what we have today; then we were above Spain and now we are under Spain. And I repeat again, in the matter of poverty, as in the matter of debt, they will never hear us rejoicing. Because he has no noses!, speaking of people at risk of social exclusion, as you will understand, this government has the same sensitivity as any one of you. Another classic is also the theme of budget execution. I understand it's hard too. When we are talking — we are on the side — it is not a favour — of what is the budgetary process, what is the drafting process, what is the debate in Parliament, what are the initial credits, what are the final credits, what is the execution as such, what we have discussed several times in this Parliament. Any comparative parameter tells us that the Autonomous Community of Galicia is the one that best implements its budget, both in terms of when we first measured and on the executed one. But let's go further, let's go to the final. When we compare the definitive, we don't have to know too much to see that the financing structure is not lost. I mean, there are finalist funds, chapters IV and VII, that are not lost; there are European funds that are not lost. What we have to do is try to do it better and better, but here the concept of annuity is not so limited. But we're still focusing on the same kind of issues, and that's very important when we're questioning, from the point of view of execution, games as important as those that might be, within the Economic and Employment Council, those that are linked to employment. There's been enough explanation. It has already been said that there is really no loss of capacity for incidence because the concept of annuality cannot now be linked to that financing structure, but they continue to address the same types of issues. Now we'll look, within a moment, what are the results that are being obtained, both in terms of registration and affiliation, and of EPA, etc. I mean, there's nowhere to try to answer about this. Another thing I didn't do, but on the subject of R+D+i, Mrs. Pontón, I made public reference to what the great government had in 2009, to what we had in 2017, to what we have in 2018 and, above all, to what we will have in 2019. And they're still selling certain mantras and certain issues that are completely sympathetic to the data they say. I repeat, I spoke of 47 or 48 euros in 2009; I spoke of the same 47 euros in 2017; I spoke of 65 euros in 2019, but we still follow the mantras. I understand that it must be quite easier to deny these kinds of questions and not stop thinking, sometimes, about what we say, but to look at innovicide, with this kind of grace, to this government, let me tell you that I can't be more at odds. In the field of innovation, the major change that is taking place, particularly from the financing point of view, is the structure of funds linked to European funds, as you well know. You know that these programs have a release that usually go a little late than the rest of the funds, for a simple matter, because they were relatively new issues in the state, also in the autonomics and in the European, and these types of programs, which are also quite innovative in the form of launches, in the form that they have to be managed, it turns out that they have a period of acclimatization or release slightly higher than the rest of the funds have. And that's where we met. Therefore, the great ejacism that currently presents in the field of innovation is not so much in the launch of these public funds within each programme, but in the support of the private sector, which we need as May water. It is also our responsibility to try not to encourage this accommodation, but to accompany the private sector. But everything indicates we're doing better every time. Again, jobs and emigration. Let me say that we can't always be talking about these kinds of issues with such contradictory messages. I'm not saying that everything we've done since we're doing it right, but of what I'm very sure is that this dike-like message they're using doesn't match. Let's focus a little bit on the EPA, third trimester. It turns out that we're talking about having a total of 1,096,459 people busy. We have almost 80,000 people more than when we mark the reference for the third quarter of the Strategic Plan, when we were predetermining to count between 80,000 and 100,000 new people. Two years before we're done, it turns out we're already on the low road and we're still going on. If we look at, for example, the female component, men and women, there's an increase of 1.8% in male occupation and 2.7% in female occupation. We will therefore have to rejoice at how this is evolving, which is the first of the social policies of more and better employment. Or when we talk about the increase in full-time by 2.5 % and in part-time by 0.4%, and we continue to focus on the characteristics of these issues. So I can't agree. When we speak — as it was introduced by one of the opposition members — 53,000 homes with all their members unemployed, why aren't 8,700 homes less than we had a year ago? Why aren't these percentages said to be the lowest in Spain? Why are we glaring at these kinds of issues? At the sectoral level, a perfect evolution. And let's not say what it's at provincial level, in all sectors. So I can't match you with these catastrophic messages, because the most objective reality that tells us is that in the field of occupation, in the field of employment, and consequently in the field of unemployment, the results that we are achieving are very good results. In no way do we feel satisfied because — I repeat again — there is a lot to be done, but I think we are going in the right way. And we also always use — others preach — social dialogue. Social dialogue that we used in the field of public employment, and there was a member who came here to talk about temporaryity in the public sector. In fact, what's strange to me is that we throw these kinds of questions and we're not a little bit more powder and objective. because the results presented by the Autonomous Community of Galicia in the field of timeliness and public employment are the best in Spain. Again, hiding a reality. [[Applause]] It turns out that in the whole phase of crisis there was one thing that is called the replenishment rate that this autonomous community, even for now, 2018, and for 2019 in an increased way by its results, has always executed our capacity from the state's basic legislation, and yet they question us. The question is that, in terms of health, today we have more workers working than in 2008, and we continue to rejoice. We are concerned that, in the field of justice, we have a lot more people working; that in the field of public administration we are practically equal, slightly below, and the same in education, as a result of a simple adjustment. Another of the messages that try to broadcast many times is always the reference of 2009, when we don't know that this is something else, this starts to be something else, and blessed thing!, which makes us stronger even for possible moments of crisis that can come, and makes us more resilient. And another thing, from the point of view of the economic model, the social model and each of its components. Let's see, social expenditure. When social spending here is criticized, we compare again in 2009, magic year, 1,600 million euros that were painted. But still, let's talk about the 1,600 and the credit there was. We have already returned approximately 1,100 million euros this year from those 2,200 in total, from 2008 and 2009, but what would be for next year, almost 1,200. But let's continue with your reasoning. In your reasoning, it turns out that in 2009 there were about 105 million euros — I think I remember — that they were state finalists. We don't get this to the Government of the Union, we don't get it from the state anymore. We are so delighted to receive more from the state! Don't get us the 150 million euros less than they come through the FCI. And we're criticized for the level of investment. Welcome! We're ready! The central government of the state, therefore, with its various groups, throughout this stage, what is very clear is that it has an impact on our large budget, up to 600 million euros in this particular case, in 2009. As we are also criticized for the EUR 390 million, which at that time had the possibility of financing ourselves in debt. We only do this next year at 69 million euros. But then what are we left with? Is debt good or bad? The debt we don't have, and that we don't take, how can we...? Don't you realize this is starting to be something else? However, the level of investment presented by the Autonomous Community of Galicia is one of the highest in Spain. If we're not the first, we're the second. Our social spending structure, as I said, health spending, spending on education, spending on any social policy, is immensely higher than we had in the real year 2008-2009. And above that, our economy is growing above what the European Union is, above what is the Spanish average, and we're getting better out of the crisis. [[Applause]] And since another very specific term was used here, such as inclusion, normally analyzing objective data, what we're being told is that our exit from the crisis is being better than what's going on in Spain, more inclusive. We're getting to more women. Is there a precaution in one part? That's where we have to incise, and, in an orderly way, correct that question. But it's undeniable that we're getting out better. That's the great achievement as a society, not just as a German Government. Because, as I've told you many times, when we look at the two things that really summarize that as a society goes up, it turns out we're going to almost 91% of the GDP ratio per inhabitant, when we start from low levels twenty-five years ago, and we don't say eight or nine years ago, when we were about five or six points. But what you're telling us is that our demographic component is leaving on one side, part of the denominator, but at the same time we're able to do better than what any other autonomous community is doing in general. And it places us, along with the Basque Country, like the only two who are winning that differential. And even more inclusive, because there are lots of homes and people who need our help, it turns out that we're in an AROPE index immensely better than we had in the bonanza stage that you want. So I can't disagree anymore. Like I can't disagree anymore when it comes to debt. It's a very clear matter. Starting from a situation with the whole stage of the crisis where we were on top of the average, the situation -- since there are several exercises -- is that we're under. Besides, it's fake the message that's leaving. Because it turns out that in 2009, with a debt volume that we put up to 4 billion euros, there was some interest that was 145 million euros. And right now, with the amount of debt we have, it turns out we're at 160 million euros. What are we left with? When we have a kind of interest that is 1.4 and a little bit more, it turns out it's about 8 tenths below, and 9th of the State Treasury itself, and like in any other autonomous community. That's what you're telling us is that we have a very well-structured, well-structured debt, where at the time you actually got it, because there's something that we can't sometimes put on numbers, or we should, what it's like to gain the capacity of self-government that we should never lose. That's what was done with certain decisions, and above all when matters are changed on the move, what the FLA can be like. And we, the financial facility, are nothing more than with the Canary Community. So let's stop asking questions... [[Applause]] One of the issues I would like to talk about is fiscal capacity. I rather than fiscal capacity, tax capacity, which I deduce from your words — but we will talk in the afternoon — is really almost a situation of fiscal wisdom. Because the news we're going to know, both from the central government and from different groups and different years, is always a matter of tax exhaustion. But also for this one who talks to them, it's really exhausting — I don't say otherwise — to repeat again what it means that this was the only government that raised the tax of wealth. All we do is take back what we already had in 2013. It's incredible, incredible, to try from this rostrum to give an explanation to a PSOE government, to a Bipartite government, that at certain times it's not just lowering the estate tax, it's gone. It's that a 20 percent downgrade disables any kind of future reasoning. It is truly incredible that we are now being asked certain questions when the elimination of the property tax was in agreement, when the Socialist Party in Galicia and the BNG were silent; also a third of Podemos and En Marea, on the most nationalistic side. But when we do the comparative level, at this board, what is criticized is the same thing as... I think I remember that the only direct government that we have right now has the people of Podemos is with the PSOE in Castela-La Mancha, and it turns out that we've been going through the room for three years, where the applied rate is less than that we have and we intend to resume. And all of a sudden, these kinds of adjectives that are used. They don't make any sense! As well as when we look at Asturias, who's got the guy under us today, hopefully not from then on. And here you come to tell us and relate to the number of teachers that we won't have... it's all right to manipulate! Why, really, how many teachers do we then have in other parts?, how many doctors do we leave when, if we really analyze our occupation, as I said before, it turns out that there is no such thing, that we have truly stable templates? [[Applause]] What unfortunately we have is less and less children. That's the reality we have. But this government was the first to put it here. You mean in politics you're going to look at the results right away? No, no, no, no. As I said other times in other years, without getting too smart: mess with me, let's agree because this truly, as a society, is one of the great battle horses we have in the future; they participate actively in the observatory, they develop the plans, we win in conciliation. By the way, no one says here that in children's schools we are the autonomous community that is setting us higher. I think there's no one like us. I understand that they don't like to talk more about it, but there's also a need to talk about conciliation on this and to put all those amounts in. So I think we're pretty good at all these kinds of issues. Mr. Fernández Leicega, I can't agree with you when it's said that basic services are growing below nominal GDP. Let us not play with the figures, because only if we take into account the impact of chapter I on each of the issues in basic services, would we see that all the chapters that really have to do with the provision of services grow above nominal GDP, and it goes on. As you're also saying that 3.8 versus 3.9 is not like that. But please! if last year has already been explained here to satiety what is the concept of primary expenditure. I understand that you don't have to understand everything, but don't laugh at the same kind of nonsense. Primary expenditure is quite clear, which is the true capacity within the non-financial expenditure that has any government. And what's that? It's non-financial expenditure but interest on debt. If we isolate interest on debt, it turns out we have 10 million euros more this year to be able to spend than the 64 million we had in proportion last year. So last year's budgets at primary expense were expansive, which is what any administration can really spend, and those this year's budgets are. Will it be so hard to understand? Well, nothing, we're still wrong about the kind of thing. So I'm telling you, these are very balanced policies that we intend to develop with these 9,850 million euros. I think the logical sequence is very important, even if it's on the day of the marmot we predetermined. We need economic and social growth to have better services for people, always people. And when we actually analyze the budget structure, and we talked very little about the budget during this first intervention by all and everyone of you, what we find is a budget that reflects very well, even on the organic level, what are these priorities and how government we give ourselves, and who are waiting for our citizens and our companies to be executed as sure. And, of course, in tax matters, don't be mistaken, there are many people — who here we laugh about — and families, and in 2016 they were in succession over two hundred and forty thousand. There are more than forty-one thousand people who have benefited from the mobilization of land and business that is supposed to be rural. They're more people who have on the subject of ZPPs and habitual housing. They don't despise issues of almost acupuncture, because they are cumulative and even have a social component at the same time as economic dynamisation. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u18	Thank you very much, Counselor. We started the round of the non-amendant parliamentary group. Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u19	Good morning, gentlemen. I have to admit that at this point in the debate, and every year when I intervene in this debate, I have a feeling of being a glosser. As the glossors know, they were the ones who wrote down on very long texts and very deep little notes that contributed to enriching them — in this case, the Justinian Code of Justice — but that certainly contributed little to the whole debate. Despite the fact that the debate is certainly very important, we are really talking about how we are doing this year the areas of Galicia for increasing well-being, for making a more just society, for a more prosperous society and, in any case, for whether we vote today to follow the planning of Galicia or not. And I have to say that I read those amendments to the whole with restitution, just as I heard the speeches of the opposition spokespersons this morning, and I think that the councilman is accompanied not only by the calmness that gives him to know what he counts with the support of the majority, but also with a coherent speech, evaluated by the facts, evaluated by the results and also evaluated by the independent authorities and the technical bodies of all kinds, and who have analyzed the autonomous public accounts, and particularly their effect on growth and equality in Galicia. So, as the first comment, first gloss, I want to point out that as far as forms are concerned we are presenting the budgets in time, which are adjusted to the law, are based on prudent forecasts, and specifically tells Airef that Galicia is fulfilling satisfactorily the recommendations and suggestions of good practices made in previous reports. And this support, of course, is an endorsement to vote favourably for the admission of these accounts, and much more convincing than the appeals to patriotism that are made in other cases, when it comes to passing budgets by Parliament, in this case of the State. As a second gloss, I want to say that in the face of the catastrophe of the past, and those that we have been here for some time with the budgetary debates we remember what they said that the budgets of Galicia were going to sink, which it was impossible for us to grow or are growing, how would we overcome Germany in a short period of time?, and even in the face of today's catastrophe, the truth is that Galicia is growing two tenths more than the average of Spain, four tenths more than the OECD average and six tenths more than the European Union average. In this way, Parliament today has some budgets that open the ceiling, at most, to a total expenditure of 9,850 million euros of non-financial expenditure, with an increase of 3,8. These figures reflect that we are recovering, as evidenced also by the objective data that Galicia has just reached its maximum per capita GDP as average of the Spanish state as a whole. But these days, several additional reports have been made public regarding growth in 2018-2019. BBVA Research says Spain will grow in 2018 to 2.6, and Galicia to 2.8. For the coming year Spain, 2.4; Galicia, 2.6. E Funcas last November 12, 2018: Spain, 2.6; Galicia, 3.1; and 2019: Spain, 2.2; Galicia, 2.4. And explicitly tells Funcas that Galicia will be together with Cantabria and after the Basque Country and Navarre — the two communities of special regime — the one that grows more in the set of Spain. As a result, we are also improving the main problem facing the Greek society, which is nothing other than unemployment. The advisor has already made some reference to the evolution of the last known figures. There are five consecutive years of unemployment casualties, and in the last known inter-annual in Galicia, a 8.69 decreases in comparison to 6.12 Spain; i.e., it falls more. It is true that the membership of Social Security which is correspondingly rising in both areas, rises more in Spain than in Galicia — in Galicia is rising in 2.35 and Spain is rising more — as a result, indeed, of the demographic decline, which is precisely something that makes economic growth difficult and contributing to it. Indefinite recruitment, by the way, in the last known act, increases by 26%, while Spain does by 19%. The truth is, in addition, in the written text of the amendments, the opposition itself recognizes that things are better. For example, the Block speaks of a more favourable economic context, the tide speaks of Galicia's GDP as being at the top of history, and the Socialist Party says that Galicia has been expanding its product over the past few years, that labour productivity is recovering its delay and that foreign trade is evolving satisfactorily. However, despite that — and I am summarizing it with the written amendment tabled by the Socialist Group — in this good context little has to do with this positive business behaviour. It's an interesting conclusion that today we hear again: who predicted that budgets would sink us, who recognises that things are now better and that the economy is working relatively well, because what he says is that all the good that happens in Galicia is guilt and thanks to society, and all the bad that happens in Galicia is the government's fault, so that the bad thing there is, if it isn't society, it's the wind of tail, that Galicia grows because everyone grows. Obviously, this doesn't explain why Galicia grows any more, it doesn't explain why Asturias grows less; we don't know, we don't know that they put a chopper on the river Eo, it might be. But the case is that just because of this contradiction, I think it would be enough to reject the budget's refund amendments. As a third comment or a glossy, I'd like to defend that these budgets pass through their structure. First, income increases by 363 million euros. That means that in recent years, since 2014, they have grown to 1,452 million euros. Therefore, the cost also grows. At the expense, 72% of the budgets are the three eminently social councils: Health, Education and Social Policy. If we add social policy to it from many others, such as, for example, from Industry or Culture, etc., which also has social support, we would be about 80% of the total expenditure. But in addition to that weight of social expenditure, the fact is that these budgets this year bring us a gross savings of 918 million euros. I mean, more than half of the investment this year is funded by gross savings. We are talking about the Autonomous Community that in recent years with its own resources has invested more in its territory, with an increase compared to last year of 5.2. And, in addition, with witness obeisance. I mean, we've met the target of the deficit, we've met the spending rule, which is the mechanisms that guarantee the sustainability of this expenditure for the next few years. And all of this without needing to introduce, beyond the support of the organizations I have just referred to, no concept of external heritage accounting that gives the impression that the Board has consumed some money that it has not received, according to the situation in 2008-2009, in which we positively know that the Board had many more resources, even many more than it would have to bear as shown by the negative liquidations. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point it must be remembered that Galicia is not the one which currently governs the Socialist Party, Spain which presents to the European Union accounts which, in particular, in relation to the document which the Government of Spain and We can jointly sign and send to the European Union, the European Union itself believes that there must be a failure to comply with income, that there will be a negative tax impact on accounts as a result of the rise in the minimum wage — the figures proposed by that document — or that this will lead to a deterioration of the structural deficit — and structural relief — or a failure to implement expenditure. What Airef basically told Airef already. Airef said that "It estimates a lower tax on certain digital services by incorporating a lower impact on the collection of measures against tax fraud, and estimates on financial transaction tax also present a high uncertainty. I mean, something very similar to what we found in the budgets in 2009 exactly: more taxes, but with a collection much below what was estimated or predicted in the budgets. That, of course, adds not only uncertainty to income, but also to expenditure, which would have to be adjusted to the drop in revenue on the forecast, and which would add to other uncertainties that the Government is introducing, either in the energy field or in the industrial field, or in so many other matters. In Galicia the budgets are credible. In particular, income is giving executions of more than a hundred percent, i.e., that initially improve the budget. By the way, in this year's revenue we don't hear the typical criticism that the indirect grew more than the direct ones, which have a redistributive component, because according to the information provided, direct incomes grow by 6.9 and the indirect ones fall by -0.2. So even the composition of direct or indirect taxation is more redistributive, although it is suppressed or — let's say — a reversal of the rise that has agreed this chamber by a pact between the Socialist Group and the People's Party in relation to property tax is made. On heritage tax, I will read something that was said in 2008 at the Congress of Deputies: "The abolition of heritage tax is the fulfilment of an election promise. It is true that some parliamentary groups do not like it, and it is true that they defend from their position that this is to favor the rich. In Spain it had to be deleted. We don't live in a bubble, we're part of the world, for good and for bad. It is true that there are many inequalities and that there are still borders, but not for capital; capital travels at the speed of the Internet, remember. There is no more wealth tax in Europe, and there could be no more wealth tax in Spain. It is a tax that no longer serves; therefore, we do not need it." This is what the Socialist spokesman at the Congress of Deputies said to justify the abolition of the property tax. And I say that between having the estate tax with a 20% rise in the worst time of the crisis and imposing on the capital so that it can cover the social expense that the fall of ordinary income generated in the Galician Union, between that, between climbing it or making it disappear, there's a medium term. This is exactly what the Union recovers, recovering the imposition on the heritage that the Socialist Government itself approved when it had to recover precisely because of the crisis. Finally, budgets have very little indebtedness, practically testimony. Galicia began in 2008 being slightly above the average indebtedness of Spain, of the autonomous communities; today it is 6.7 points below. It is true that it has increased from six percent of GDP to 17 percent of GDP. But the truth is that today the Greeks owe per capita 4,200 euros of autonomous debt, and the average of the Spaniards is 6,346. It is also true that it was the third Autonomous Community that has increased its indebtedness since 2014. When we hear now that we are very indebted — and Mrs Pontón tells us that they seem to have to thank us because we don't owe ourselves — I think that at least we should thank ourselves because we don't accept the amendments that presented to us AGE, today the tides, that would be a debt of a billion more, specifically, 1,010 million, or that we didn't go to the state average, because in that case there would be 3,800 million more indebtedness. It's also true that we're doing better because today it only calls upon the Socialist Party to commit itself. Today the Socialist Party is calling for an increase of EUR 130 million in debt, in line with what the President of the Government proposes. And you put yourself in an interesting detail: in the two exercises prior to this, the Socialist Party amended to demand 60 million more debt, and this year it called for 130 million more debt. What's the difference? The difference is that last year and the previous year they completed the figures by asking for an increase in autonomous funding of EUR 40 million and EUR 60 million. This year they do not call for an increase in autonomous funding, which is an increase in the indebtedness of the Autonomous Community. I suppose this has something to do with changing the Government of Madrid, but obviously it's not a positive fact in itself that asks us to owe Galicia more. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] In Marea, for its part, it keeps the 200 million that asks for extras from autonomic funding. Well, I suppose this will be on the Welsh agenda in Madrid. Because where to ask for more self-financing, it's not in this parliament, it's not who decides on self-financing, it's in what you've allowed someone else to rule, who has to make the decision about it. Fourth gloss — and I will conclude —. They say they're going to refuse these budgets because they consolidate the cuts and because they don't reach the homes. So we're looking at the cuts in this paradox: the Block increases the global budget count to around 191 million euros, the PSdG to 293 million euros, and the Marea Group itself to 400 million euros. Today Mr. Villares said that we spent only 500 million less on health than he would do on the year 2009. They're talking about 2,000 million less euros this year's budget, but they're proposing 191, 293 and 400 million euros. So if we do a percentage of about 2,000 million, what it means is that 95% of the cuts to the block are consolidated; for the PSOE a little more, a little more, a little more, a little more, a little more, a little more, a little more, a little more -- and in the Marea Group itself, which calls for 400 over 2,000, we're talking about 20% that isn't consolidated; 80% of the cuts, according to these amendments, I'm harming you by consolidating. I mean, not even raising taxes as they do in their amendments, we'd never get to the 2,000 million that say there's a difference with the budgets of 2008 and 2009. That's what there is. So here's a contradiction and a paradox, because I suppose you're not in favour of cuts — as we are not — but you're in favor of having money to do what's going on in budgets. And even painting money doesn't come up with the figures that you're recriminalizing on us that we cut in budgets. And the second thing is, there's a growth that doesn't reach the homes. Well, Galicia is among the four communities in which most wages rose in 2017, 4.6%; the number of hard-pressed Greek homes at the end of the month has fallen more than ten percent in the last year, after having fallen 29% in the previous year — that is, talking about people —. The AROPE report says that the poverty risk rate in Galicia has been reduced by 2.8 in 2017; that is, more than seventy-eight thousand Greeks — more than seventy-eight thousand people — have come out of this situation this year. Again — INE data — Galicia reduces...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u21	...40% of people who are in a situation of lack of severe material, i.e. from 4.1 to 2.4; they are people who have stopped being in this situation. And Gini's index in Galicia tells us that we have much less inequality than on the European average and on the Spanish average. Finally, the accounts are evaluated with results, and the results are those that evaluate budgets. And with this I conclude. The question after these glosses that I made — it would be the last — is: do we learn anything from the crisis? I'm convinced that the Government of the Union and the majority group are. Seeing your arguments and seeing what you are presenting, what you see is that there is nostalgia from the budgets of the years 2008 and 2009, which were the ones that caused, among other things, that the crisis was more serious, or even that there is nostalgia from the form of budget in Madrid. We don't have it, and that's why we're going to reject the amendments to the whole thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u22	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Replica of amending groups. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u23	Good afternoon. I, if you will allow me, Mr. Martínez, will start by telling you something with absolute clarity: we are very tired of paternalism with which you come to face this debate of budgets. Yes, yes, because you're confused that we didn't give him the reason we didn't understand. [[Applause]] And we can't give you the reason, Mr. Martínez, because I think you have to be in Babia or you have to be a — I would say — political sadist to come here to tell us that we are better than the crisis after all they have to endure and still endure hundreds of people in this country. [[Mr. Martínez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I think it's a disrespect for all the people who got shot during this crisis. It seems to me a disrespect for all the people who don't make it in the middle of the month. A lack of respect because five thousand jobs were lost in the bank after you spent 9,000 million euros on health and education. It seems to me that it is really, Mr. Martínez, to have very little sensitivity to come with a triumphal speech, when the one falling out there is very grave. [[Applause]] Yes, yes, it's falling out there a very serious one for a lot of people. And, of course, since you're not right, you have to get up here — even in that paternalism — and you were not able to figure out any of the arguments, not one of the arguments! He came here to tell us that you are the smartest in the class and that the others barely know how to read, add, stand and divide. Well, that's not the reality. And look, they're upset that we're talking about the demographic situation and a failure. How are we not going to talk about a failure? We have to talk about a failure because the trend has changed since you came to Galician Union. And today we have a Galician who loses population in a state that wins it. And today Galicia has a drop in the gross birth rate of 13.8% since you rule. And all this after telling us that with those rances and natalist policies — which are the ones they have been practicing since the Galician Union — the situation would improve. But the situation has not improved from a demographic point of view. And of course there's a very serious problem at work, there's a problem that should be yours first to worry about. Because, of course, they come here and tell us it's okay because they emigrated two hundred and seventy thousand people. He almost just failed to say it was good news. If those two hundred and seventy thousand had not left, what would be the situation of this country today? From a demographic point of view, instead of regressing, we'd be growing up. And from the point of view of pulse to birth, don't you worry that young people are marching and that what's coming is much older people? Many people who retire, which I think is great that people when they retire can come back, but I'm concerned that young people of working age are either on the market, contributing to the development of other territories and assuming a loss, in economic terms, in social terms and also in human terms, very important to this country. Of course, precariousness is not a problem for you. There's no precaution. He told us something like this. We're fine. However, there is a very serious problem of precariousness among young people in Galicia, who have very low wages. That's probably one of the causes they have to emigrate for. There's a problem of precariousness in women as well. And you didn't talk about it, but it's important that we talk about it, that it's raising the pay gap again. It's growing the pay gap in this country! I mean, more and more women earn less than men for doing the same job. And his government doesn't care, passing everything! Total: nothing's wrong. That's the conclusion of your speech. And look, there's a serious problem with job recovery isn't that BNG, which is also being told by other institutions. Abanca — I suppose you will not accuse them of wanting to demolish the People's Party Government — in his last report on the economic situation, alerting Galicia to the fact that she is in line with the recovery of employment from all over the state. And he says, "The accumulated differential with regard to the evolution of the Spanish ensemble is increasing. Since 2013 the occupation in Spain has grown almost twice as large as in Galicia. A bad result made by a Greek unemployment rate that is below the national rate, but it is that before the crisis it was much lower than the one there is at the moment." I mean, we're gonna lose ground. That's what the reports are telling us. And there is, of course, also a situation in which you have a responsibility. And it comes here to tell us that it's normal not to run budgets and that you don't worry that year after year employment funds, innovation funds, fishing funds, the Rural Middle Council has a lower execution. Because what they're doing is negatively affecting economic evolution, because they're resources that stop investing, they're jobs that stop creating. And, therefore, the Government, in the part where it has responsibility, is not activating all its potential, but its paralysis, its lack of initiative and its lack of country project is making the crisis in Galicia deeper. And, of course, we're not better than ten years ago, nor are we going to stop this economic crisis. On the other hand, Galicia is getting worse off, with people with less purchasing power, keeping a gap with the state in pensions, who are still the second lowest, and as you see people like every day the cost of life is much higher. But you don't care about all this, do you? I suppose from San Caetano, life is much more comfortable than most people in this country. I saw that they were very upset that we talked about "innoviced government," but, I insist, yours is an innoviced government. And not because we say it, it's because the data says it. In 2008, Galicia invested 1% of gross domestic product in innovation; the result of its policies is that we are in line at 0.89%. And even if we analyze the data between 2016 and 2017 — which are the last we have complete — it's what we see going down, despite the fact that, in theory, there was more investment and even though we were in theory on a positive economic cycle. So you're putting us on the line in innovation, destroying companies, and there's also fewer patent applications, that is, there's a key problem in one of the sectors that has to be one of the elements on which to sustain a new economic model. And in view of this reality, you're angry because we tell you. But what you have to do is recognize the problem of changing a strategy, which, of course, is not putting us in the first places. We're far from the European average. Of course, here we say we're better than Germany. Finally, Germany invests 2% in innovation, Catalonia invests 1.9%, Euskadi is also getting closer to the 2% figure and Galicia loses positions. But to keep Mr. Martínez from getting angry, it turns out we had to come here and tell him everything's all right and put on a red rug. But reality prevents us from giving him the reason. And you're going to have to assume that you're not able to put yourself in one of the central elements in order to be able to change the economic model into an advantageous exit position. And the government has responsibilities, because there are others who are doing well. In Basquedi and Catalonia you have references to how this model could be changed. Because every time we go to a public research center, what we're asked to do is put in place here measures to retain talent and put that talent to the service of our country's economic development. And another so much we could say in relation to the debt. Of course, they triple the debt, and they come to tell us to lower it. It is impossible to have a debate with you about these characteristics. Who seemed wrong to them the debt was to you. You were the ones who told the citizens that you couldn't spend more than you have. Whoever told us that wasn't a positive resource was you. But the thing is, we don't know what the debt of this country is. Because they can give every turn you want, but the truth is, you know -- as I do -- because it's in the budgets of the Galician Union, which today we have less resources in the primary health care system. And he didn't explain to us why they cut him nearly 200 million euros in "Primary Care Medical Staff." With all the serious situation that is causing deterioration, in which there are people — and you should know — that in order to be able to reach your head doctor it takes one week; one week to be able to go to your primary health care doctor! So we asked him why they cut off in primary care. He didn't tell us anything at all. And yet we're seeing universities, which have a funding plan that was designed in the middle of the crisis and which we know is insufficient, because we have universities with less funding than the average state and far from the European average. And having good training from a knowledge point of view and also for innovation is basic, and the university had to be an engine in this field. And you follow a plan agreed upon during the crisis, which economically drowns universities, which does not allow you to retain talent and ultimately does not allow you to safeguard one of the key elements of the welfare state. And by the way, because if I'm done with time, you told us that the day of the marmot didn't end so bad, that we didn't have to worry, that it had a happy ending. But the happy ending, Counselor, came because the protagonist recognized that he was wrong and changed his strategy. The serious thing is that you come here with the same failed recipes as ever, you're not able to recognize the deep problems that exist right now. And so what they condemn us is to continue to repeat a movie day after day that doesn't have that happy ending of what you're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u25	Good day again. Mrs. Pontón, the day of the marmot is not only because it changes the attitude of the protagonist, it is because it decides to be solidarity rather than insolidary; it decides that in view of what it was doing all that time, which was to be earned, it would share the fruits of luck with everyone else, with those who needed it. [[Applause]] Well, if you apply the tale, Counselor, you accept the amendments of an opposition group and you can surely overcome the day of the Marmot, if you are so concerned. The truth is they didn't convince me of their arguments, and I have to tell you. You're upset that we're talking about the demographic issue. Welcome to the demographic issue! We were already in 2009. That's right. That's the problem: they've been telling us since 2009 that they're very worried about the demographic situation, but this is getting worse and worse. We are not that we are not on the demographic issue, we want you to change the policies that address this fact. Where are you going to act so that what happened so far doesn't happen? That's what he has to tell us. For that it's worth a budget; it's an instrument of action in reality. Then tell us how you intend to change your behavior. When are we gonna start? You tell us, it's that demographic policies have a lot of inertia. They have a lot of inertia, but you've been ruling for ten years. They can't expect us to believe they're going to continue ruling forty! And so when will their demographic policies begin to have an effect? That's what he has to tell us. You know I talked about immigration in a precise sense. What I'm saying is that in immigration with the rest of Spain we are having a negative balance. And this is important because the rest of Spain has conditions similar to ours. And, therefore, the mobility that young people make, which are the ones that basically move with the rest of Spain, is indicative of the ability to attract or expel each of the autonomous communities, and we're losing there. And you can't cover this with the fact that you're returning people from Galicia or not, at last, that your parents or grandparents were, who come from Latin America or other points of the world, and who come back to Galicia, because that's cheating on us all. And that's none of your own, I know you don't want to cheat on anyone. In the General Secretariat of Equality — which we are talking about and did not answer too much — the problem is not that there are six million, which extend the funds for equality. Of course they expand, but it's basically because there's an injection from the State Covenant of Gender Violence, and that this collected in the budgets of the Union allows to make the figures. But what's important is how much additionally puts the Galician Union. If the Galician Union had put about what comes from outside further, we would have doubled the funds of the General Secretariat of Equality. And it wouldn't be wrong. [[Applause]] But that's what matters. Same as at work. Here, the final funds for employment policies, mainly active policies and training, grow to EUR 25 million this year, but the whole of employment programmes increase their share by EUR 17 million. Which means that the Union's own contribution goes down in 8 million euros. And you come here to assume employment policies! I mean, he comes up with the policies of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. That's what's happening. [[Applause]] The programmes that are increasing — and we agree with — are the result of the additional increase in funds from the General Government of the State, as a result of the political change that took place in May, and from the European institutions. Because this is what allows some capital expenditure to grow and some policies to be strengthened, such as housing policy. The increase in current and finalist capital transfers — you know it perfectly — is 171 million euros. I mean, about half the additional budget margin that you have in Junta comes from here. And then you come to assume autonomy, when what's going on is that about half are finalist funds that are already conditioning the results. But there's also another aspect that has been mentioned earlier by the spokesperson for the People's Party, in relation to the increase of funds that we're dedicated to some games, where we get them out of. We defend a humble government, a republican government in the direction of Petit; that is, a government that cares primarily about the needs of citizens. And we believe that this is not done enough. First, there's a lack of transparency. If anyone wants to know what the potential staff volume of the Galician Union is going to be in the budget document and it's impossible. There's no box; there's a box that puts "Personal eventual," but it's a box that's blank systematically, so we don't know. First problem: lack of transparency; very important. But, according to the problem, when we go to each of the sections, and we see what happens in each of the sections, we see that in many of them potential staff means a volume of expenditure that is higher than the management staff of the councils, and that seems to us too much. For example, in the Chair, the Chair of the Chair: "Management staff", senior positions, 419.000 euros; "Persual possible", 1.8 million. This is the reference. And if you tell me even the most senior staff eventually, it's 25% of the budget expenditure in the presidency section, 25% of the expenditure, well, we think that's too much. And you're going to tell me, it's not that in 2009 you did not know what. Ten years have passed, there's a reflection from the crisis of how we should act in politics, and I think you're not incorporating it enough. For example, in "Intangible Investments" it is not possible to know what this expenditure is for the consolidated budget of the Galician Union. There's no transparency, every time they make less transparent budgets. But we know that in the General Administration, it's 180 million. And you've been worried about the memory of saying, well, here you do a lot of things that are necessary. Of course a lot of things are necessary; I'm not going to argue about it. But just 25% of this dedicated to another type of investment would allow us to take 40 million euros, which would be welcome, for example, to strengthen the MOVE Plan or, for example, for R & D+i expenses, or for building residences, or for building health centres. Forty-five million euros give for a lot of things, for propaganda too, but surely social performance is higher in the first one. And we ask them to do that, as we ask them to reorganize the structure of the board to make it more effective, not just make adjustments ad homonym or ad woman not to be discriminatory, and so now the waters of Galicia, instead of being with the environment, is elsewhere. Of course, if Galician waters don't have a serious environmental component, I don't think they have anything. And you're clearly telling us that they're not worried about sustainability, because they're putting it in the Infrastructure Council instead of the Environment Council. [[Applause]] They are reorganizations that do not respond to general principles, but to short-term political objectives. And there are many policies that would need considerable reinforcement and are forgotten: since the fight against tax fraud, with the strengthening of Atriga, to a parliamentary office in the budget of Galicia; the construction and conservation of roads, which includes security policies; hydrological planning and management, which goes down considerably; health research, which falls considerably; or forest management and rural infrastructure. Without a doubt, this will also be discussed this afternoon in the cross-sectional amendment, but I didn't want to stop focusing on it. And, of course, there are some things that draw attention to me. I got a minute. Let's see, the question of the AROPE rate, which I haven't talked about before, but which I think is relevant. You assume that the AROPE rate is improving and that the Gini index is better than before. As you know, what happened in the crisis is that poverty has tended to rejuvenate, and what happens in Galicia is that we have a much greater proportion of people than the Spanish average and, on the other hand, we have less proportion of young population. That is, the demographic fall and fall of the young population is directly affecting aggregate indexes such as the AROPE rate or Gini index. And you're getting the medal. But are you getting the medal from policies that allowed you to focus on this? The only thing that allows you to incise is the demographic fall, that is, just its failure. I mean, they're getting a medal for their failure. That's where we got here! And this could even be said of some other relevant aspects of his policy. It is a failure that the number of Thursdays in Galicia had been reduced by a third since he began ruling Mr. Núñez Feijóo; it is a failure, acknowledge it to me. And it is a failure which instead encourages the growth of GDP per capita, against what Mr. Puy says. And as it encourages per capita GDP growth, you assume that. But it's a failure that compromises the medium and long term, because these are the demographic effects on growth. In the short term, it can have positive effects, because we have fewer children and fewer young people who don't work, who demand less spending on education. But they don't work, they don't actually consume, and they allow the savings of families to get the most training, which is very good, but it's a failure. And it compromises in the medium term our physical base, our productive base. They can't get medals for failure, they have to take care of things. Finally, the question of multi-annuality versus annuality. Of course we know there are multi-year credits, how are we not going to know? What happens is when you put them in the budget is that they think they're going to be available that year, and if they don't spend them, they're delaying the solution to the problems. We just criticise it is that, in a context where spending falls, resources normally available from external sources are not used diligently, because that means that they will delay their effective application to solving society's problems. And a very important one — I regret that the Employment Adviser isn't here — is the Youth Guarantee Initiative Fund, which was a serious failure also in Galicia, and that they were basically funds from the European Union that were not used.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u26	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u27	Those are the problems we see in the budget and those you haven't given an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u28	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The spokesperson for the People's Party — not without any delay, of course — should not be so dissatisfied with the budgets of the Galician Union when the budget proposed by En Marea and the increase in its amendment was EUR 400 million. As soon as you read the amendment, you can see in your justification that it's 400 million euros a year, in a five-year plan, to recover those 2,000 million euros that we refer to. In this way, we could carry out a gradual recovery of public expenditure by fulfilling the law with all the regulations, both state and Community, and by gradually increasing this situation also causing the benefits inherent to a greater weight of public budget within the redistribution of income-richness and, therefore, the economic dynamism that this would generate. Obviously, we have no doubt that Mr. Puy has read the amendment in its entirety. So we attributed this to just a political default. And I think it was also good to explain: knowing where, how and how we set up a strategy, which has to be necessarily a combination of the medium in the short term, as well as in the long term. And that's one of the issues we wanted here to point out. In answering some of the questions that the Counsellor raised in his initial intervention and then also in his reply, he literally told the beginning of his first intervention that soon would serve an budget which could not be executed. So, of course, if you take and go to the degree of execution between the years 2011 and 2018, well, 2017 to be exact, which are the years on which there is data from the governments in which you are managing the budgets, you could deduce from your own assertion that your budgets serve little. Let's go with five specific functions that we think can be very revealing: Funds for employment. That's the 50s and 100,000 jobs on that famous plan. They left behind 814 million euros between 2011 and 2017; it goes so well, so boisterous that it is not necessary to execute what is budgeted. We could go in the last year, but that's what I'll leave for a little bit later. Secondly, on housing. Between 2011 and 2017 you left without spending EUR 138 million, without spending. It can be seen that the Galician Union is not interested in or is not aware of the increase in rental prices in recent years, and particularly in the last year in the cities of our country, which demand the most - above 10% in the main cities and towns - as they continue to increase - and are the official data of the Official Council of the Judiciary - the evictions that occur in the new cities and villages, caused by the impossibility of paying rent, not of the property that cannot be paid, but of renters. And it seems to you that they have enough housing policy to leave unexecuted EUR 138 million. Great! In R+D+i, which is already a game of itself accumulatingly over these six years 2011-2017, you leave without running the 215 million euros cooler, which consolidates this game as one of the lowest degree of execution of all that you have in your wallet. We're wondering if we're considering enough R+D+i effort in the automotive sector, which could be developing autonomously completely throughout the Vigo metropolitan area, where new companies could be captured, which in this way run north of Portugal, not through relocations, but through new deployments already with greater technological capacity, which is being lost because the Galician Union is not fulfilling its role. Food sector. As the first producers in a substantial part of the food raw materials within the Spanish State, then we made a ridiculous transformation and manufacture of food products. It is enough to go to the dairy sector so that we know that by producing 40% of the milk throughout the state, we have transformed here less than 10%. Well, this could be being promoted from an R & D+i policy, for example, from an appropriate industrial policy -- something that you have no interest in doing. We could also talk about another leading sector worldwide: textiles, where there is a nourishing sector, not just a multinational, but a nourishing sector developed around this way of producing, and you don't care about it either. We could also talk about naval technology, which today would give rise to the fact that we could be producing not only in the new shipyards, in the marine windmills, the production towers, but also the engines themselves, etc. In the industry, another one of the same: EUR 341 million not running. It must be that the industrial policy of the Galician Union is as perfect as it is, and it is not necessary to spend what was already stated. And finally, as you've already referred to people without social promotion, it seemed to him that there were enough people cared for and were well enough, and they left 100 million euros of the budget unspent. We're not talking here anymore that they look like kids, better or worse their budgets; it's that even of those who look good to you, they stop spending all this. Are you satisfied with this degree of execution? If budgets cannot be executed, what budgets are those? You said it at the beginning of your intervention. Where are you going to stop all this non-running amount? Do you know where you're going to stop most of them? On payment of interest in debt and other part of it in staff expenditure. Well, they also said here that they were very uncertain because the general government budgets were missing and they didn't know where the income would come from. You know where they're not coming from, right? The wealth tax you pay the rich. We must insist, because it is very important that people know what their tax priorities are and who you look at when they make fiscal policy. You've earned the creation of 50,000 to 100,000 jobs. This is always positive, first of all, because it recognizes your ability from the Government to influence the labour market, the dynamics of work. So we understand that if you hang that medal, you'll also be responsible for the kind of work you created. They may not be responsible for creating jobs, but they are not responsible for creating jobs that they believe are precarious and therefore adds to the uncertainty of hundreds of thousands of people every month if they don't know whether they're going to work the next month and what conditions. And it's a job based on temporality. Today the total timeliness in absolute terms of the people who work up to 26%, with low wages. We are talking — official data too — of 450,000 people who earn less than 900 euros a month. That's right, then they get upset because there are proposals to raise the minimum interprofessional wage to EUR 900 per month. I mean, the dignification of those and those who don't even charge that bothers them, too. But the merit of that created work is earned. It's also in labor sinality, which is related to the quality of employment, and which leads to the fact that we have the labour mortality rate, twice as much of the Spanish average. And finally, the gap between women and men, which gives rise to the fact that we have 29% of differentiated wage mass between women and men for the work they do. In these conditions, you could answer why you leave so many resources behind. Repeat: EUR 814 million not executed. It is only last year that more than sixty million euros in pieces that we have already denounced here at the government control sessions, in the field of equality, in the area of Pemes and self-employed people, in the field of training workers, in people without previous jobs, in long-term unemployed. Is everything all right?, don't you have to run these games? Well, come and explain. In the field of public service they also explained their conciliation measures, but it turns out that this year they lost the magnificent opportunity to support a bill put forward by En Marea to expand and equal the paternity and maternity leave, they voted against. Just as they voted against other measures of implementation in the general labour market to establish measures of condition that were really appropriate. You also spoke at the end of your first intervention in the innovation of healthcare treatments, new treatments. It's a shame they didn't take that into account in 2013. They also say they're being questioned about the staff they've been working in the public health sector. Yes, of course we question them, and we find it insufficient. That's why we denounce here also in the first control session of the Government after the summer that with explicit non-compliance with the rules applicable to Sergas you had the Road CAP without a second medical team; with express non-compliance with your own law. Of course we don't think it's enough! You're talking about the Welcome Card and the Good Council, and you're ignoring the fact that many mothers who are giving birth take months to receive the Welcome Card, months! And they can't go to the pharmacies to advance what they're going to spend on leather, what they're going to spend on other materials that are necessary in the first months of life of children and children. Either they cheat or they don't get part of that money in the end that they had to be destined for. The councilman says he doesn't agree to raise taxes to the Greeks and that they will therefore continue to lower them. So we want to once again expose ourselves to this tax drop: the fall of taxes on wealth. You say, to justify this download: let's reverse the rise of the estate tax to put it as before the crisis. You said so, yes or no? You said that, didn't you? Yes, because it's literally copied. Look: if you're going to put the tax on the rich as before the crisis, perfect!, but before you do that, put the wages as before the crisis, put the job as before the crisis, put the social benefits as before the crisis, put the opportunities for avalanche as before the crisis, bring back those who left after the crisis. That's what has to happen before taxes are dropped to the rich. For us, no, nothing is the same as before the crisis. Because there was an emergency and a consolidation of a new social class: the precarious, the precarious social, the precarious work, the people who live in permanent uncertainty. And you're thinking uniquely and exclusively of lowering taxes to the rich. This is unacceptable to us. We must remember this: with a net worth of EUR 3 million, EUR 6,000 a year with this reform; with net assets of EUR 6 million, a tax gift of EUR 16,000 a year; with assets of more than EUR 10 million, almost EUR 40,000 a year of fiscal favor. This seems absolutely unacceptable to us. You spoke of debt and lost the opportunity to also refer to that question that we asked you, which I have now raised: whether it was true or not that the public funding mechanism, the FLA, contained no limitation for communities like the Autonomous Community of Wales, without being conditional on any kind of intervention in case they were meeting the targets of the deficit. In such a way that you could have come before and, therefore, have saved and saved all of us and all of us a super cost of financing the debt of EUR 549 million. So much left to give to the private bank that interest we're paying too much now? Well, it seems to us that it is absolutely unacceptable. How unacceptable it is for you to come here — I will finish, Mr. President — to tell us about "tax knowledge". Fiscal knowledge? Yeah, yeah, we want to keep sabling the richest rich. Yes, we want them to keep paying for what they were paying for the estate tax. Yes, it seems to us that superseded supermillionaires who go into their private jets or have the big displays won't notice that fiscal favor too much. And on the other hand, many humble people in our country who have difficulty reaching the end of the month would have thanked you for a small gesture that would be small; small for the richest, but very important for the humblest people in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u30	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close this debate, Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u31	Thank you again, Mr. President. There are themes on which I really like the tone of how the debate is developing today, too recently, I have to admit. But people who know me a little bit, Mrs. Pontón, will say that if I have anything, it's a certain level of sensitivity. I'm not saying it's any more, it's a matter of paternalism. What do you mean, no? He called me with only one son I have, and he doesn't say I'm very paternalistic either. So I understand that we all have the skin a little sensitive, of crystal, but it's not bad that we discuss in certain debates, it's good even to confront different postures. There's a common theme that you've all been repeating, which is the theme of execution. Again I repeat, and with some other element, and I'm going to focus on three questions: First of all, the fund structure tells us that not all funds are lost. That's right, and that's the fundamental factor. You have to look at it, therefore, not at annual periods, but at somewhat more open periods, usually in the second year. Theme number one in each of the policies that were here ahead. Theme number two, of course there is an improvement margin! But it must be borne in mind that certain amounts, especially not so much linked to the finalist funds of the State, but the funds that come from the European Union, need a programming and launch period that is not yet happening, and that conditions certain actions as some of those that have been pointed out at this time. [[Murmurs.]] What is true is the third element I would like to introduce again — I hope they don't have very fine skin. When you see the preaching of each of the groups and when you see the execution they normally present in areas in Galicia where they have responsibilities, as can be the municipalities and the deputies — and there they all have it, you have the PSOE, you have En Marea and you have the BNG— it turns out that any benchmarks for what the execution is in the Galician Union cannot be supported or by chance, especially in what the investment is. I understand it's very difficult to manage the investment of 15,000 in 15,000 euros, as we've been accustomed to. I repeat, the fund structure is not lost, there is no need to go to the concept of annuality in strict terms. Structure that is therefore linked to a margin of improvement on our part -- it's obvious to recognize it. And then advice, seeing that for me I don't have is what you usually have in a number of questions. [[Murmurs.]] I can't allow when the truth is missing here and if I quote us, for example, from universities. On the subject of universities, what is very clear is that it is the fulfilment of what we have given ourselves between the universities and the Galician Union; by the way, at a much higher level than what was in the previous plan. I don't therefore explain to myself that position that you did, Mrs. Pontón, on the subject, when to me what universities transmit to me by the highest representatives is that we are scrupulously executing what we agreed to. And, as always, we all want more, we will arrive at its moment, little by little, and with a clear orientation to goals and results. So, it's a plan where -- about to start working on the next -- whatever looks like the previous one or what was in the bipartite stage is pure coincidence. It's the same or something similar to what happens in the field of primary care, when here you refer to every health issue without taking into account the fundamental change. And the fundamental shift in primary specialized, at the organizational level, is that today, after several years, we have integrated structures. Taking the part at all and seeing what it meant in 2008 or 2009 is the primary care and the strict denomination that is being done right now, and reaching the conclusion that you arrive at, it's just a simple manipulation of the data that doesn't match what really happens. Mr. Fernández Leicega, you know I have a lot of affection for you, but I suppose when you talk about funds, I suppose when you talk about the General Secretariat of Equality, when you talk about housing, when you talk about finalist funds... I suppose the finalist funds will come to all autonomous communities, or is there a differential for Galicia? Finalist funds are coming with general criteria. By the way, by changing the evolution and income of the central government of the state, it is logical that certain issues should also be changed. But it is by no means a gift that the central government makes to the Government of Galicia. Once again twist the data when referring to any staff or high office. Whatever looks like right now in high office, where we're 37% or 38% in the number below what was in 2009, is pure coincidence. Please! And three-quarters of the same thing happens to potential staff. [[Murmurs.]] Both in numbers and in credit, it turns out that we have 27% less in prospective cabinet staff — 2019 data compared to 2009 —. Don't look at us, please. You don't know that between 3.7 million euros that means for high office, and 2.3, we're talking about nearly 6 million euros that this government, instead of spending it on high office and eventual cabinet staff, is destined for another type of priority, year by year! Let's not forget that it's 1 billion of the old pesetas, which is not so little. And with a plugin that is never well explained enough and that shows also, once again, our sensitivity. Because most of you are aware that at the Bipartite stage, in the structure of the Presidency of the Union itself, there had been eventual recruitments that were not even milleurists. So what are we talking about? [[Murmurs.]] What are we talking about when we talk about potential staff and high office? Like, what are we talking about when we talk about the AROPE rate and it turns out that when it's okay, the question is demographic, and it doesn't depend on the board, when it goes wrong, the question of whether it really depends on the board? The objective reality is that, always talking about the risk of poverty — what we don't like to talk about, to see that we also have a very large sensitivity — from there what we have to correct, and that reality today is better than the one that was in 2009 so many times referred to, and also as an average parameter. It's the same as the Galician economy. The economy of Galicia grows by two things: because we are doing things better, because not only is domestic demand important — as Mr Villares said in his first speech — but external demand is also important. Because the external demand is telling us that every time, as a society, we do things better. And being small and being where we are, if we are able to compete in the world's economy, that's giving us the viability of the future. And at the same time there's also a demographic issue -- it's been talked about in committee -- and both effects are saying that as a society we're doing better, but there's a lot left to be done. My words can never deduce, please, a self-comprehensive but rather an ambition; an ambition that reflects in a very clear way in these budgets. There's a very clear priority, we still bet on growing more than Spain, growing more than the European Union, growing more than the advanced economies of the OECD. That very few times has happened in Galicia's history, very few times!, and that to move to more and better employment, as it is happening. And we must have an impact on our priorities in all of the programs that we are running. Maybe running a little better some of them, but always without losing what funding we owe ourselves. As well as when we think these are budgets with social dialogue. Social dialogue is to recognize that you have someone in front of you who legitimately defends your rights, and we are the counterpart. But what we are unwilling to do is -- as elsewhere is happening -- overcome by the tangent all that means social dialogue between entrepreneurs and workers. As always, our budgets are made from rigour. They are also done with Parliament's support. We brought up a spending ceiling and discussed it. But why are we discussing this budget the first Parliament in Spain? Because there's an budget! [[Murmurs.]] There's no draft or foreign ideas; and even on priorities we can distinguish, argue, not share most of the time, but at least there's a black base on white, on which to discuss. That's very important, and not the foreign ideas that anyone can throw, the balloons probe or the instability that's moving. Because people are sure that these budgets — hopefully among all of us we know how to improve with the approaches of different groups — will come into force on the first of January and will be executed, and in absolute terms we always ride on the path of 100%. There is one thing that is the most important thing that has just happened, already in 2018 the Autonomous Community of Galicia is in fiscal consolidation. We left fiscal consolidation in a positive way, growing more than our surroundings, growing more in employment than the great social policy, doing a little better and much more to be done. Those are my words. But with an add-on: that in political terms of this whole stage we have never lost an apex of what autonomy is. We never lost an apex, and, like us, very few autonomous communities. That's why, Mr. Villares, take a look. You, who are a relatively illustrious person, compare and answer yourself when you talk about the FLA. Why do you think that at a certain time, when there is a FLA, a fund of financial ease is created? It'll be for something! If it were the same, you didn't have to believe it, did you? And financial ease, what does it mean in debt matters? It means that we depend on ourselves, nobody has to tell us... Mr. Lake — Mr. Lake, a great boyfriend of debt — No, no, no, even when I had responsibilities I was on TV, that everything evolves, man, we're all going... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] So I think we're in a good budget. I think it's useful for Galicia today, and, as it advanced them, for Galicia in the next decade. The great aldabonaz as reference to the Xacobeo 2021. But let's not forget, the great eulogy that is the Xacobeo 2021 is completed with sufficient foresight, with that planning that unites with the present and the future. In 2019 we will lay the groundwork for what the plan will be to have it ready by 2020, in the first half of the year, and thus put together the normal budget cycle. That's what's moving us as a society. I think we're in an budget -- you said it very well the spokesperson for the People's Party, Mr. Puy -- that, look where you look, it's marked as prudent, as normal, it's in the interval of power to be realized, and yet better than in our whole surroundings. Let us safeguard, please — and since the Greek Government we are the first interested — our Galician instability that we are, objectively, detecting. It works in advanced countries, in advanced societies, for stability, trying to bring certainty to actors, both people, families, businesses and institutions. This is how a modern economy works, as long as we know how to be ambitious enough. We continue to strengthen the most important -- look where you look -- which is social spending, and when you analyze it not even for the kid; you just have to go down a step where these budgets mean. And always compatibility the question that no more indebtedness can be used for ourselves, with a perfectly structured and flattened debt. I think there's a lot of effort behind us, I think we keep up with rigour, planning, trust. I think the security of having this new budget the first January come to us all very well. That's Galicia's great value, which your government announces can be executed. So, with a budget, as always, for growth, but for growth not only economic, but social, for better public services, getting better and better. I'm sure we'll have to improve, but I think we're going on a more than right line. And why? Because in the end, we're with people. And even as a model, the one who talks to them and the government that supports it, we're not willing to talk about people, because they hurt us, at least, as much as any of you do. No more, thank you very much. [[Applause]] Vote for Group I amendments Voting of amendments to the total demand for the global refund of budgets
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u32	Thank you, Counselor. We shall vote on the amendments under discussion. Close the doors, please. We are beginning to vote on the amendments calling for the global return of budgets. First of all, we voted for the amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales. Voting of the amendment to the whole which calls for the global return of budgets number 1 (Doc. # G.P. 39789). of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u33	We are now voting on the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting of the amendment to the whole which calls for the global return of budgets number 1 (Doc. # G.P. 39848). of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u34	We are now voting for the Group of the European People's Party. Voting of the amendment to the whole which calls for the global return of budgets number 1 (Doc. # G.P. 39701). From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected. Voting of amendments to the total demand for the refund of budget items from sections or expenditure managers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u35	We are now voting on amendments to the budget refunds of the sections or expenditure managers. We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Vote on Amendments Nos 1 to 13 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block that calls for the return of budget allocations from sections or expenditure managers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u36	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote of Amendments 1 to 12 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists who demand the return of budget allocations from sections or expenditure managers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u37	We are now voting on those of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Vote of Amendments 1 to 31 G.P. of In Marea, returning budgets from sections or expenditure managers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u38	The following amendments, those in Group II, will be discussed at 6:00 p.m., four in the afternoon. We'll stop the session until that time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u39	We reconvene the meeting, with the debate and vote on the amendments in the second group, which amend the overall budget count or transfer appropriations between sections. In particular, amendments have been made to amend the overall budget account, i.e. to transfer appropriations from the three groups: the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Bloc, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Debates and votes on amendments amending the overall budget content or transferring appropriations between sections.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u40	So for the defence of amendments, you have the floor, first of all, for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u41	Good afternoon to all and to all, though we're not many and many. We are debating today the third budgets of this legislation and, essentially, we have to say once again that they continue to repeat the same failed recipes of the last decade, proposals that are basically designed for the service of an absolutely neoliberal and centralist agenda and frontally opposed to the needs of popular classes, proposals that continue to be continuing in economic and social classes, with a model that has only expanded this gap that has caused the crisis and extended over time to inequality, precariousness, loss of muscle also financial, economic and productive in our country. And the truth is that the real Galician that is behind the comprehensive story that we could hear today morning, the truth is that behind it there is a real Galician who has very worrying issues, like that one quarter of our country is at risk of poverty or social exclusion, that we have less employment and less quality than ten years ago, and that we also have an increasingly service-based economic model than in the productive sectors, and that they really have a potential to get us out of the way. We also have to say that the real Galician that is behind the rhetoric of recovery has less and less population, contrary to what happens to the rest of the state, and that leads us to conclude — it would be long enough to explain further in-depth — that this so-called recovery remains in large numbers and does not just serve as a boost to regain employment and fix population, especially on newer layers. And he said Malcolm X that tomorrow belongs to those who prepare for him today. And the truth is, thinking about this, we have to present, as explained today in the morning, an amendment to all and every aspect of these budgets, because they are far from compensating much of what has happened in this country in the last decade and they are far from preparing us for a future for which they are not at all planned. And those who don't move don't move forward. And so in our proposals, what we do is we design a clear roadmap aimed at a defined country political project, which is at the service of a Galician future and future, which recovers rights and recovers services, but also drives a new production model and the economy of the country that is the bread of future generations. In our amendment we have shown that, even with this frame, it is possible. That's why we present an alternative model to both income and collection as well as expenditure priorities. As for incomes — I'll hate it a little bit in this matter — we understand that, as an initial or a preliminary question, we must once again insist that the lack of sovereignty and political power causes us to see our capacity as a country severely diminished. And that's because of the permanence of an absolutely unequal economic relationship with the Spanish State. We see it perfectly in the most important piece of income, that system of financing that, a decade after the Feijóo era was started, comes down to less resources at this time than it was ten years ago, while everything around us in price has only increased. That accounts for an absolutely limited framework, demonstrates the failure of Nuñez Feijóo in front of the Galician Union and is an absolutely unfair treatment for Galician, more so when we note that, with the last year of fiscal liquidation, if we settled in our country and went to Madrid more than EUR 11,000 million, only returned 7 billion. Our face comes out at the expense of the dependency, gentlemen. And here we have to add another slab that we drag, which is an absolutely unfair distribution of the deficit and also a recentralization of our capacity for decision-making on expenditure and political decision-making. We are aware that these two issues do not go into the margins of these amendments just, but these are two issues that we cannot lose perspective to realize the depth of this issue and its consequences. But we understand, however, that, even with the limited framework we have at present, it would be an absolutely different model, and that is why we have designed in our amendment a proposal for fiscal policy to have more resources to shield social spending and encourage economic activation measures. We have introduced fundamental changes in the face of a fiscal policy of the People's Party, which is shown to be repetitive, without new and monotonous ideas, which renounces the application of high impact measures and which seriously renounces the principles of progressiveity, redistribution and social justice. In front of that, with BNG's proposals, we have introduced, in a band, in the previous years, new tranches in existing taxes, as is the case with the IRPF, applying real progressivity; as is the case with the property tax, reducing the minimum exemption and modifying the rate of those higher; and also suppressing changes in succession tax. Secondly, as a novelty, we present a proposal for five new taxes that would allow us to have a modern and up-to-date fiscal framework, owned by Galicia this century and not the same as last century, because the country and our needs have changed and we have to make changes in this. And they go in two directions: on the one hand, using this fiscal policy to guide the economic model, the pattern of consumption habits and also environmental care, and on the other hand, they also get to add nearly 200 million euros more, which would allow us to ask a lot of questions about it, and all this without affecting the majority of society. First of all, we insist again that there is a need for tax on large commercial areas, to discourage that consumption model and to compensate our country and also for the small impact trade that has already been generated. And we reiterate this, in addition: once again, the people's party's usual apologies that this is judicialized, because the European Court of Justice has already ruled that it is not a covert aid, that it does not address the principle of freedom of establishment and that there is also a very remarkable relationship between the larger size of these facilities and their greatest environmental impact. That's why, in view of Mos' model ballatzo city, we bet on this issue to have more resources for our economy. Secondly, we understand that fiscal policy also serves to encourage certain models of society, and that is why we propose to apply a tax on sugared beverages. This is a recommendation by many experts about it, it's something that is already being tested in other countries, and, without going further, in places close to us, as is the case with Catalonia, it's been applying for a while. And the fact is that the first study on this application estimates that there was a 22% decrease in consumption of this type of substance and that would therefore have a positive impact on the overall health of the population. We wonder why not try it, why not bet on some innovative question in this regard. Thirdly, we also wagered by a tax on the provision of electronic services and communications, in a way that has a finalist destiny to promote our audiovisual. This is a proposal that comes from the sector as well. We know that there are legal obstacles in this respect, but we understand that there is still room for the constitutional rulings to look for a fit in our system and that this allows us to combine our own funds with this collection in order to promote our audiovisual. Another issue that concerns us very much — and we understand that it is also a need for an answer from this debate — is all that is happening in our country as far as the housing market is concerned, a housing market whose most real estate in this country is now directly the Voitre funds. This can't be allowed. And, therefore, we understand that there is an empty housing tax that burns those dwellings of legal persons, not physical persons, that are permanently closed for more than two years and that, therefore, speculative practices are reduced. And finally, why not a high-voltage line tax, which impact significantly on the field of vision, on the field of environment, and which would be a way to encourage companies themselves to also be interested in applying the burial wherever possible. In short, these are new proposals, designed for a different country, which, firstly, do not affect the saving of the majority of society, which, secondly, bet on a new economic, fiscal, environmental and social model and which adds 200 million to our public archives. And this would allow us to take steps forward also in a battery of amendments where we present an alternative political model of change of course, because we need absolutely different spending priorities than those that are diminating the People's Party in this budget project. And we would summarize it in five major priorities. It's complicated this time to synthesize them, but I'll try. Five big priorities. We understand that, first of all, budgets must be the children of their historical context and that, therefore, at this moment, Mr Martínez, it is urgent to step on the accelerator in the search for real equality. We understand that on 8 March all of us and all of us should have taken up a mandate of greater effort for equality and that it is therefore possible to increase our accounts in this respect. What we don't budget doesn't exist, and that's why we're asking for steps forward, for example, against the salary divide, with a plan of 4 million in the English language. There's no equality since then charging less, but not with violence either. That's why we insist again: 1% of this budget should be meant to fight against masculine violence, at least 1%. If our lives aren't worth those 100 million, we ask again: what is it then? Secondly, we understand that we must also give the importance that our language and culture deserve. That's why we have to say that in this context, where you — you have to grant Caesar what is Caesar, that gift and skill they have for propaganda — because they have created a Council of Culture, but we are still waiting for a corresponding economic impulse. That's why we do it on our proposal, with a line of specific help for the audio-visual in English. We also get out of this ostracism to which language matches have been condemned. It's time for you to decide or assume the legal mandate you have to promote. Either they take that or they're permanently installed in citizen and Vox's theses. We have proposals for you and we bet on a specific plan for childhood and also for Justice. Also by correcting that democratic anomaly that, one more year, in budgets, there is not a single euro for historical memory. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, time is running out. In terms of historical memory, it is essential that repair comes as soon as possible, and that is why we need economic resources. We also include questions relating to everything that has to do with the third major axis that we apply to environmental recovery and the vertebration of the territory. We understand that Touro, La Casalonga, the Umia, etc., our laughs, are the symptom of an absolute absence of the Greek Government in environmental matters, and that's why we include different measures for restoration and placement in value of protected spaces. It also wants the chance of the debate that we are not only at the doors of November 25, but that we are on the European Week of Waste Prevention, and that is why, as my colleague Louis Bará once said in this same gallery, we ask them not to move away from Europe and that they therefore adapt to the new regulations that are being implemented, and we bet on a plan to manage bioresidues and promote self-composition. This, in addition, is accompanied, as I said, by proposals for the reversing of the territory. But there are the last two major points that seem to us absolutely priority: on one side, the defense of public services, and on the other hand, the measures of economic impulse. It defends public services because precisely that education and health increase their budgets less than budget overall is a symptom of a planned and premeditated abandonment policy. That's why we use appropriations to increase staff and recover them both in education and in health care. We understand that there are many problems in reality that you don't want to see. And not to mention the lack of staff in these public services. We recently saw scenes that looked like Brian's Life in these parliamentary debates that we had about the start of the school course. For example, I brought a headline: Galician board awards the IES Brión for a robotic project, a subject deleted this year because of lack of teachers. This is a clear example of what is the theory of these budgets and what is then the practical consequence of the Galician Union. That's the country, as long as you're blindfolding. [[Applause]] And we can also set examples in health care; without going further, this very weekend, neighboring Moaña, neighborhood of Rubiá and many places in our country were on the street for lack of doctors and doctors. We also understand that it is time to go further, that we cannot afford a country with 324 suicides per year this past year 2017 and not bet seriously on opening up new horizons in the field of mental health and providing a prevention plan that is worthy of such a name. We also understand that social policy itself has an important field to cover that they are leaving behind. So we propose to increase by 100 euros the accounts of non-contributory pensions, in which you, as a Government, do have a capacity, and that only 40 million euros in an budget of more than 9,000. We understand that there is a lot to do in this area and on the second shift I will go deeper in more detail. We also understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u43	...that it is time — I am finished now, Mr President, after that we will point it out more calmly — to bet on job creation measures that give a 360-degree rotation to all that is being done, which is very little, in the field of innovation. First, in the economic bet, strengthening these budgets, and, second, in the orientation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u45	...and then, on the second shift, I will deepen on these proposals. But I brought a summary of what the innovation policy of this government has been...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u46	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u47	...to the thread of the debate we see this morning. And above all, Mr. Martínez, it's a lucky thing Mr. Count is too: advertising, advertising and advertising. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Then you have a second turn to continue with the matters you consider.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u49	For my part, for now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u50	Thank you very much. On the part of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Fermín Losada Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. This morning the People's Party, its spokesman and councillor spoke to us about the glossors of the 14th century and Charles Dickens in the 19th century. I'm going to advance a little, not too much, we're not going to have vertigo. I'm going to XX, I'm going to the memories of a Jewish boy who was born in a laborer's neighborhood in Philadelphia in 1928, who's called Noam Chomsky and who wrote, "My family was a working-class, I was unemployed," -- I insist: he was born in 28, that is, he was a child when the recovery of the 29 crisis -- he had no education, it was a lot worse than the one at present, but there was a feeling that we were all together in this; now, today, we live in the sense that we're alone, that we have nothing to do." This is exactly what budgets are going on, on the right or on the left. I appreciate the moral support — it always comes well, even if it is from the People's Party — but that's exactly the case. And that's exactly why, indeed, after a very strong crisis like the 29th, the state, the public domain was able to respond to the needs of those affected by that crisis. Unfortunately, in the crisis of the year 2008, the right in Spain and other Western countries was unable to respond to these needs; quite the contrary: it has deepened inequality and poverty, those words that you are unable to pronounce. Because look, when they say that you also talk about people because it's obvious, we all talk about people. People were the ones who married this weekend in the parish and people are the ones who are in the social dining halls in the port of Vigo. I don't want to talk about all people and I don't want to match all people, because it's obvious, objective, manifest, that not all people are equal neither have nor have the same needs. [[Applause]] I think that's the fundamental question. And what lies behind these budgets, Mr. Counsellor, beyond the accounting issues, in which of course you manage — it would just be missing — are two questions: it's a shameful ideology and, on the other hand, it's a terrible management, as much as they tell us about multi-annualities, as much as they tell us about statistical data. I would appreciate it, really -- I know that time here is very limited, but quoting the sources is always a fact that enriches the debate, perhaps it allows less data to be used, but, well, it would be okay, because from this morning we've heard some of them -- which actually cites some sources of some issues that point. The Socialist Party, the Socialists, where we rule — and in this case it is in the Government of Spain — expresses the need to establish a roadmap, which is the roadmap that we would apply in the event that we rule in Galicia and explain, of which we are not ashamed at all — quite the contrary. And in that roadmap, indeed, it is where we are going to insert the expenditure priorities, which we would place in these EUR 400-401 million, which is about the amount we are going to mobilise. He's got four lines basically, Counselor. The first is: it is essential to tackle job insecurity and promote quality employment, because low quality employment, poorly paid, temporarily, for part time, is economically inefficient — you know it perfectly well — and socially unfair; and therefore it is essential to solve it and it is essential to act there. And you can't tell me that the policies you're making in Galicia regarding combating unemployment, with the formation of so many employees, of unemployed people, of employability, of all the items you want, are producing results, because it's obviously not that way. So this would be the first question. In this matter — I also take advantage of being the Industry Adviser — I think the industrial issue is a pending issue. There is an objective of 20% of GDP at European level, which seems to indicate that, according to the advertising and propaganda of the Council, we are going to conquer, but in the last year industrial occupation has fallen by 5% — cit: EPA from third quarter of 2018 to third quarter of 2017; it is a matter of staying; easy, I think we can all —. The second point: an equitable distribution of wealth through salary, Counsellor. And I demand it, the socialists demand the rise of the minimum interprofessional wage, of course, 22%. Why not? Who tells us no? The governor of the Banco de España, that regulatory institution that was so insightful in detecting the financial difficulties and the arrival of the crisis? Will that be insight into the labour effects or the labour market of raising the minimum interprofessional wage? [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Nothing, Mr. Tellado, you then have a shift on which I am sure that, like Zaratustra, will enlighten us with your wisdom, but for now I am myself. [[Applause]] And within this fair distribution of wealth through wages, Counsellor — and I have never heard anyone from the People's Party talk about it here, of course not to try to answer me, but not even to tell me that I am wrong — improve the distribution of cake, because we already know that GDP is growing, but I want to know who leads that growth and I want to know what steps can be taken to correct the dysfunctions that occur in the distribution of growth if we let it be reassigned strictly according to market mechanisms. This is what politics has to do. That's what politics was doing when I was acting on Noam Chomsky's family in 1938 in Philadelphia. Unfortunately, it is not what he does today in the United States and it is not what he does in many countries of Europe, and he does — I do not say he does not — in our view, very little effective in the case of Galicia. The third point: a tax system that is more and more fair. We are — OECD data — 38% of GDP of fiscal effort, 46% in the euro area; that means 8 points, that means 80,000 million euros, that means 4 billion euros in Galicia. I don't know why, what's the reason, what's the Kantian imperative that says we can't have a tax system similar to the average of European countries, when we're about halfway through income. Because what happens is that the Spanish tax system — and I'm not saying here either — is only the fault of the People's Party, at all — which has been built in this country has very serious problems — let's say — even self-perception, because it is so focused on wages, and therefore in most populations, that there is the perception that we pay a lot of taxes. But the whole Spanish economy pays a lot less taxes than countries with a similar level of development. And this is called increasing taxes on capital, large businesses and the accumulation of wealth. We think it's important. See, in the United States, Eisenhower, who was a Republican — not a Marxist-Leninist suspect, as you well know — had an IRPF of 92% for wages above EUR 200,000. It is true that salaries of 200,000 euros in the 1950s were absolutely elite wages, but it was 92%. No one is talking about it now, but it's good that we know the data, because that was the data that allowed Noam Chomsky's parents and grandparents not to feel neglected and abandoned in an outing of a crisis in a labor district in Philadelphia, understand? So this point I think is also relevant. And this solid tax system has to serve for the fourth point, which is to strengthen the welfare state, which to the left is the fundamental objective of politics; the other three are tools, are instruments. But the fundamental objective of politics is to strengthen the state of well-being, so that the differences — which will always exist — between that marriage of the Parrot and the social eaters of this autonomous community are smaller. And I claim the government's action to be smaller. [[Applause]] And so I'm claiming a decent pension rise and that pensions can be co-financed by taxes. Why not? What is also the categorical Kantian imperative that says that pensions cannot be financed or co-financed via taxes? That's what only those who hope that when the distribution system is insufficient can get their hands on it be private funds. Of course, that's the speech, that's the speech by Unesa and most of those informative breakfasts that are held in Madrid. But I don't know what the economic reason is for you not to be able to finance yourself with taxes, Counselor. And of course, it covers unemployment benefits. And it cannot be that the level of coverage of the unemployment rate, which is undoubtedly falling, continues to decline, because unfortunately the people who are going to be unemployed are the most vulnerable, by gender, by level of qualification, by duration of that unemployment. Anyway, I don't think I'm telling you anything, Counselor, I don't know. And exactly the same within this reinforcement of public policies is to enhance the national health system and the state pact for education. These are two fundamental elements of income and equality redistribution. And, of course, I'm neither expert nor anything like it, but it's true that the feeling transferred by professionals that resources are scarce for the existing demand I think that it's in society, it's in the media, it's in Galicia, it's just not in the health counsellor and the health spokespersons of the People's Party, who tell us another story, but of course the rest seems to be. [[Applause]] I'm not going to argue with you if the number of workers right now in Welsh health is greater or less than in 2009, because the truth is I didn't even look for the data. But what's true, Counselor, I don't know if you read the press. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you read the press? Yeah? Up to Vigo Lighthouse? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right, all the papers have to be read. And therefore the education system, exactly the same. It's the only social elevator. There's no other one. We don't all want to get married in the parish, but we all want and we have the right to have a decent life, we all have the right to have a worthy life. To me -- and it's legitimate -- there are things that scandalize me and, as they scandalize me, I say them and I talk about them. I should just like to hear from the Members and Members of the People's Party that I can talk about here. Well, it seems so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u52	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u53	Maybe they're angry because they haven't been invited. There's a question, a question... I'm not, I'm not angry about it, I can assure you. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] With regard to the specific subject of the amendments, these five points move in terms of expenditure to which I spoke and, of course, in terms of revenue, we mobilise EUR 400 million. We scrupulously respect European standards, the rules of the European Union, we are not breakers, we do not ask for the exit of Spain from the European Union, at last. That would only be lacking in one country with the social problems that Galicia and Spain have, because of course we have them: we have the highest unemployment rate in the European Union after Greece, we allow ourselves not to use all the deficit margin that Europe allows us... Mr Counsellor, do not put that face, they said they would not use it; they have changed their mind, because yes; well, perfect; for they are using it, at last. Income policy. In fact, we believe that the IRPF has to increase taxation on higher incomes, and it seems to us that the higher incomes are not that 60,000, that is 120,000 euros. I think that with 47,600 euros, which is what we put on -- and it's enough to see the IRPF's statement tables of the Tax Agency -- we're not talking about middle classes in terms of tariff, we're talking about just 5% of the percentage of declarants. In the case of property tax — finally, we've talked about it in the morning — I think that this double taxation story is essential, it's a theoretical construction of those who have pasta not to pay for it; i.e., I have meridionally clear that wealth, wealth, has to be taxed. And by the way, there is no empirical evidence that these engravings of wealth are against economic growth, none. They are against and in favor, but there is no scientific, academic, absolutely decisive conclusion. You have — I repeat again — interests, as you say in some way. And, in the same way, imposed on large commercial areas, on environmental costs, installations affecting the environment and environmental engravings. And in the same way, we also understand that Sergas and the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo should make a greater effort to increase their own income. And, of course, reduce unproductive expenses. We talk about 100 million euros: office staff, advertising and propaganda. Yes, yes, because the general increase in Chapter I is 3.4%, in high money and delegates it is 5.7% — if I did not wrong the rule of three — and in any cabinet staff it is 4.9 percent. Non-material expenses...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u55	...about 25% of Chapter VI. I think, in fact, to invest first you have to study, but it gives me the feeling that you're studying a lot, it gives me the feeling that maybe you don't have to study so much. I have some proof of what they're studying in the Igape, that having an internationalization division takes out competitions for external consultants to deepen their internationalization of the Greek economy. Maybe we should take advantage of the endogenous resources instead of being so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u57	...—ending, Mr President— generous on this issue. And, therefore, here are about 100 million euros; hence 400 million euros. And I repeat again: the five axes that we are talking about are to a good extent those that we have said at the outset: additional programmes for job creation, increased social policies and strengthening public services in health care, education, everything that has to do with poverty and inequality, which is there, Counsellor. You don't know if you're aware of EPA data. There's an absolutely serious data, which is that those homes that have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u58	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u59	...all without any income, the drop is very...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u61	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u62	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u63	It's just that we had an exchange there about the wedding and then...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u64	I didn't know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u65	So the low-income drop is very slow, and those are the ones that have to act on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u66	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u67	So, Counselor, I think you should know exactly about people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u68	Thank you, your time is up, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u69	...it doesn't always have to be talking about all the people, it's talking about who needs it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u70	Thank you. [[Applause]] Parliamentary Group In Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u71	Good afternoon on this difficult day of budgetary debate that loves the House so much. Counselor, for many times if a lie is repeated, it will never become a truth. Today he said here again that the Greek economy came out of recession thanks to efficient government management Feijóo, that we have already recovered the level of employment and well-being, that public debt is reduced, that Galicia converges with Spain, that next year's budget is expansive, that we already have a level of expenditure similar to the previous crisis and that the tax cuts that benefit most society continue. They're all, aren't they, Counselor? No one, not one of those claims corresponds to reality. This morning they crossed data to support both the defence of budgets and their criticism, I think there was a certain level of confusion that is good to clarify, and that is why I'm going to take part of my time to provide evidence, external reports that really allow to evaluate what is being said. It's true that the economy has grown again, that the biggest activity has more occupation and higher income, which translates into an increase in the budget. But about these objective facts he built such a triumphal speech as fallacy, which is proved false as to how soon the decorated stoneboard was removed. And that's what I'm going to do with twelve reports that strongly contradict what you said here and that I'm going to leave to the President of the House. [[Mr. Lake Peñas shows some documents.]] The first is a report by the National Institute of Statistics, which presented in October this year a report on quality of life in Spain taking into account seven dimensions and ninety-six variables on the material conditions of life, health, employment, work, housing. Counselor, do you know this report? Do you know what position we take? [[Mr. Lake Peñas shows a document.]] Galicia is the last one, the last of the seventeen autonomous communities in the state, the last one in this composite quality indicator developed by the INE and which I leave to the President of the House. [[Mr. Lago Peñas gives a document to the President.]] The second is a BBVA study in which it analyses the evolution of employment in the different autonomous communities of the state since 2007. Do you know what position we occupy, Counselor? Galicia is the second autonomous community with worse evolution; it's only worse than us Extreme. [[Mr. Lago Peñas gives a document to the President.]] The third report is the barometer of the CIS in October, which, in addition to talking about the intention of votes — very interestingly — includes the question of the opinion of the Greek citizen on the situation of the economy. I don't know if you know the report, Counselor. But in that report it is said that only 3% of the Greeks believe that the economy is going well and therefore 97% of the citizenship of Greece says that the economy's situation is regular, bad and very bad. Counselor, are we the Greeks and the Greeks stupid? How can 97% of the country say that the economy is regular, bad or very bad and that you make the triumphal speech you made in the morning? Even more. [[Mr. Lago Peñas gives a document to the President.]] Only 8% of the country thinks we're better than a year ago and therefore the rest thinks we're equal or worse than a year ago. That's the assessment of the management of the economy that is made by the Greek society. Counsellor, it's not true that the Greek economy grows more than the Spanish average, it's not. In the report on the growth of autonomous communities by the National Institute of Statistics, it says that from 2010 to 2017, the last period, the latest data, the Greek economy has grown by average 0.7% and the Spanish economy by 0.8%; 0.8% on average in the state as a whole, 0.7% on average in Galicia in the last seven years, reports the National Institute of Statistics. [[Mr. Lake Peñas shows a document.]] [[Mr. Lago Peñas gives a document to the President.]] Less growth that explains that Galicia is the autonomous community with the worst evolution of the labour market since 2008 in all its variables: active population, busy population and unemployed population. Counselor, I'm going to say it again: nothing has to do with the management of the Galician Union on the way out of the recession. To give Mr. Puy some reason, I will say that nothing had to do with the management of the Galician Union in the fall of the recession of the world economy in 2009. It was not caused by the Galician Union, nor by the fall in the global recession of 2009 or by the withdrawal of the European Union from the southern European Union countries from 2014. Galicia is an important, powerful place, but some limitation on our ability to influence the world does exist. The economy is growing normal, it's been 117 of the 124 quarters since we recovered democracy until 2007. That's 2.5 % is the usual, because it's the average rate of growth in the Greek economy of thirty years before the recession. Do you know what the difference is, Counselor? That this time economic growth does not move to well-being, as it shows that 97% of Galician citizenship considers the economic situation to be bad, regular or very bad after five years of expansion of the economic cycle. And citizenship is right, it's always right, but in this case especially, because we have the same level of wealth but it's worse distributed. We have the same level of wealth but less employment, more precarious work and worse wages. The 2017 GDP is EUR 2.7 billion above the 2008 GDP, but the wage income is still EUR 1.250 million below, as reflected in the quarterly accounting of the Galego Institute of Statistics. [[Mr. Lago Peñas gives a document to the President.]] There's less jobs and there's worse wages, there's worse jobs, because half of the working class, half, is in precarious condition. The People's Party doesn't understand that: temporality is only one of the formulas of working precariousness. But there's more. The October General Social Security Treasury monthly report says that only 48% of the people affiliated to the general social security regime have an indefinite full-time contract, and therefore 52% of the people affiliated to the general social security regime are temporary, are fixed discontinuous, are indefinite but hired in part-time, are in practice or in training, etc., etc. Monthly report of the Social Security Treasury. [[Mr. Lago Peñas gives a document to the President.]] We have the same level of GDP as before the recession, but it's worse distributed, and that's why we have a more unfair, more unequal society, with more poverty, with less labour rights, less employment, less unemployment, underpaid wages and more precarious work than before we fall into the double recession. One of the most serious consequences of the economic policy applied by the governments on the right, among which is the Unity of Galicia, is the brutal retreat of people's well-being and the capitalization of the country, a huge cut in public spending caused by austerity policies imposed from 2010 onwards. Counsellor, to see if this time you're with you: it's not true that the 2019 level of expenditure is approaching the 2009 level, it's not, because you can't compare data from different years without taking into account the evolution of prices. From January 2009 to this month of 2018 the IPC increased by 16%, 15.5% exactly, INE certificate, 15.5%. [[Mr. Lake Peñas shows a document.]] [[Mr. Lago Peñas gives a document to the President.]] You tell a pensioner or an employee who in 2019 receives the same name as it was in 2009, tell him that this is okay. So that's the trick you're trying to use here, the stone card to hide that budget cut and compare nominal amounts. This decline of the public is not a coincidence or a side effect, not even an inevitable cost of the crisis. Counsellor, it is a premeditated goal pursued by the Government of the People's Party in the Government of the Spanish State. Because that's your strategic decision: to reduce the public's weight in the economy. The budget stability program 2018-2021 presented by the Government Rajoy aims to reduce the burden of public spending and public income in the Spanish economy; therefore, it is not a side effect, it is something sought for. [[Mr. Lake Peñas shows a document.]] [[Mr. Lago Peñas gives a document to the President.]] Counsellor says the 2019 budget is expansive. If I'm not wrong with the figures, the budget increases by 3.8 and the nominal GDP increases by 3.9. How can it be expansive when spending increases below what nominal GDP increases? How can it be, Counselor? In no case can it be qualified as an expansive. In that sense, we say that it is unacceptable for cuts to be consolidated in budgets. As Luís Villares said this morning, if after six years of GDP growth we only progress in the recovery of public service funding, when are we going to do so? Now, what does a slowdown in the economic growth phase begin? Less spending and more debt and because in 2019 — I said it again — the public debt in Greece is not going to go down, it's going to increase by 238 million more. So function 91, the function of public debt, already absorbs 14.5% of the total budget, advisor -- I know it's not non-financial -- and in 2009 it was 3% of the total budget, now it's five times more. And yet, it is true that, despite increasing debt, it reduces the payment of interest. Why? Because the Galician Union in 2016 made the right decision: stop indebteding to banks and resorting to public funding mechanisms to early amortize loans that were at interest rates above what it could do. I'm going to read you a sentence that says the 2017 General Account: credit expansion for early cancellation of loan operations due to its high financial cost. The General Account comes to say that what I told them in Marea in previous years is exactly this. [[Mr. Lago Peñas gives a document to Mr. President.]] And this is demonstrated when we analyze the information of the Banco de España on the structure of the public debt of Galicia. In 2014 Galicia had zero euros of financing these extraordinary public financing mechanisms, zero! Today we have 6,154 million euros — and rising — because the Autonomous Community that most resorts to the extraordinary financing mechanisms, to the FLA, which most resorts to since 2016, since the collapse of the discourse of the Galician Union, we are, trying in a race to forced marches to recover the lost land in previous years. [[Mr. Lago Peñas gives a document to Mr. President.]] Counsellor, EUR 549 million is the cost of financing for private market rather than for public funds made available to autonomous communities. It's the most expensive and ridiculous political marketing campaign in the whole Spanish state. Mr Counsellor, as the economy no longer grows, it cannot be that we converge in terms of GDP per capita with the average state in a healthy way — as you would say. If Galicia grows less than Spain — as shown by the INE — how is it possible for us to converge in GDP per capita? because it is a division between GDP and population — inhabitants — and Galicia has less and less inhabitants, the denominator is reduced; and as the denominator is reduced, GDP per capita increases artificially. This is the trick: the more people we lose, the more we converge with the average income of the Spanish state, but we do it by the wrong way, the way of passive convergence. The accounts of the year 2019 consolidate the cuts applied between 2009 and 2014, and continue to reduce the weight of the public; we tell you that not. Faced with resignation, clippings, permanent adjustment, we sent them a position, a different and ambitious policy. In this sense, we present an amendment which has two basic lines of action: firstly, to increase the level of expenditure by EUR 400 million, acting on the way of revenue; and secondly, by redistributing the government's spending, by changing its priorities, by an amount of EUR 292 million. In short, it is EUR 692 million that we dedicate to priority programmes with the aim of implementing an economic policy that drives growth, which transforms growth into economic and social development, which is based on the productive economy, which transfers the greatest wealth to a greater well-being of citizenship, to combat inequality, precariousness, poverty and exclusion. Counsellor, I end by asking you the same question as last year, to see if I am lucky this time and to answer it: Why, if we already have the same level of GDP, is the actual expenditure of the Galician Union a 17% lower than it was in 2009?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u72	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Mr. Consecutor of Fairy, you have the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u73	Thank you again, Mr. President. Thank you and good afternoon to all of us here, too. Quite, quite a few, we're not so few. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Allow me to focus on my exposure to which I was bringing us. Truly, I understand the frustration that some of the speakers might have because I don't know if you've liked the morning intervention of your main vocalist. I understand you're here talking for minutes, given the freedom that we all have and deserve, I don't know if you liked it very much, little or nothing. It seems to me that very little, because this very debate, Mr Lago — and allow me to start for you — has already been in committee. He was answered in a more or less fortunate way -- I think he's quite lucky -- but you're mistaken, with all his bricks, with all your consideration, without... No, if it's very good, man, have ideas. [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Having ideas is very good, as it is also good from time to time working something else, and for that it serves everyone to learn, I the first, eh!, who then tell me that I am very pretentious; no, no, I the first, that there is always much to learn. [[Murmurs.]] We can't get into a bit of too much debate either, because it's a good thing we've done that, apart from being in a Parliament, a lot of people can be listening and they need to understand. Because at this point you -- like a person who passed through a faculty, who was also mine and someone here -- that's almost 1st of economics, come here talking about the real growth of the economy, just the data of the IPC, and you don't realize what the deflator of GDP is, is that, let's go!, it's a wonder. But, of course, I'm not going to pass as a pedantic here explaining to people the four components that have the GDP deflator and how that is the true incidence to measure. You also know that the big impact from 2009 to 2017 on the increase in salaries or decreases on average wages in the public sector — that some communities have already recovered it since 2016 and there are still going to recover it in five or six years and who still goes for the last year — as a result of a question that has not yet been recovered. We hope that it will recover in full terms, as was 5% of Government Zapatero in medium terms. If you apply what you just said, it'll be smaller. As it is hard for you to understand, as it is the subject that you can do even less, effectively, and being equivalent as hospital pharmacy is, just look at a data, an application: extrahospital pharmacy, 100 million euros less in 2019 than in 2008-2009, without any kind of affect, because we're talking about chemical, biochemical and medical equivalences that are perfectly comparable. So you can do more. I told you this morning, too, like you're talking about debt. Home, I think we have a lot more debt in the Autonomous Community. Where there's a place we have less is on Galician TV. Little by little we're getting better. [[Applause]] Yes, I'm going to stick a little bit closer to the exposure of the other two people, because that's what brings me here. I'm trying to work with our people that we're at the Town Hall about what brings us. And, then, this morning I think it was where we discussed all this about confronting different models of economic policy. They are models — let me tell you — that in no way does it mean that I presume mine is good and that of you is bad; no, no, I don't do that manichaism, but I do try to explain the causes that lead me to good. And, of course, I don't intend to give or I intend to receive classes of better or worse than economic models, but I'm trying to argue. But, of course, after analyzing the cross-sectional amendments of the opposition groups, it is very difficult to approach positions, since they are based on premises that are — with all due respect, Mrs. Pontón — Marmota Day. I don't think this executive can't consider his proposals, but there really is something missing here; either we fail or you fail, because they're very similar to those of previous years. It's just that it's relatively easy to get to the structure, to get to the challenge even. And let me tell you that it is not because of lack of will or study on the part of this government, but rather because, in my opinion, they are based on formulations that are either not likely to take into practice or rather, including them in the budget, would mean to leave out others that are necessary. Besides, we disagree in the way they want to have more income. Again, as is customary in recent years, opposition groups want to raise taxes to the Greeks, or they have to include shares that we have no guarantee of being able to receive with those higher incomes, with which it would be irresponsible; on our part we consider it to be so. Why don't we accept this? It has become very clear this year, as in previous years, that our model is another on the fiscal side, is to lower taxes. I don't criticize the tax anymore, what I'm saying is that's not our model. It's not our model in a clear way. And we also defend rigour and choose to include — look at that this is difficult, talk about rigor, what boring is talking about rigor, right?!— and that's why we only budget the income of those we are sure of, more or less certain, because absolute certainty in income will have to evolve the year in which those revenues that we are giving will be true. Curiously — as Mr. Puy also did today in the morning — when we analyzed all incomes every year, it turns out that we are very slightly above 100%; 100%, 101%, 102%... is the tone in which we move. This also answers some of the speeches that have been made — I think it would remind you — by Mr Losada when he was talking about tax fraud, if so. One of the main lines of tax fraud that has been created since the birth of Atriga since 2010 — I think I remember — or 2011 is always to comply with the plan that we give and with very nice incomes. We cannot accept the amendments in most cases because they are irreachable, such as those that call for extracting resources from final funds from European states or funds. You, like me, know that the finalist funds and European funds keep their logic. There is a link between finalist funds and the destination of these funds, and between European funds and the destination of these funds after the corresponding programming. I don't explain how we followed the same type of errors year after year. Nor will I say, man, that all formulations are not correct or reasonable, but in the budget -- and it was said very well here, and you have also marked a priority exercise -- we also do so and we cannot accept that proposals, although we agree with them, are supposed to withdraw others which we consider to be much more priority. Let's go for the kid. Mrs. BNG's voicer has already come forward that we don't want to raise more than 200 million euros of taxes to the Greeks, it's in a clear way. We refuse that in the IRPF the Greeks pay 25 million more or that they pay 45 million more for inheritance taxes. When one looks a little to the side -- because sometimes one has to look a little to the side -- I don't know about any autonomous community that in the matter of successions is in the fabric that you and some other group are proposing, as I will mention in a moment. But I think it's a total going against the times. It is impossible that we are all wrong and only you are right about this point. Or that they pay 38 million euros more for the property tax. We also refuse to create new taxes, such as collecting 36 million more with an empty housing tax or 60 million more tax on large surfaces, etc., etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I tell you, our tax policy is exactly on the line against what nationalists are defending. The German Government maintains the greatest tax relief in history. As I said this morning, there are already more than 248,500 of the Greeks and Greeks who have not paid for receiving an inheritance. We maintain and strengthen the zero tax strategy in rural areas; there are already more than 41,300 of the Greeks that have benefited from this, with a movement of land without parallel in the community; no one buys or buys land or changes land if he does not have at least one medium or short-term expectation of mobilisation and value-added land. Let us also maintain the reduction of taxes and the elimination, if any, of collectives who buy habitual housing in sparsely populated areas. And we've already taken 2,300 families; they're not so few in less than a year. And with always cumulative character, housing is not bought every year. And by 2019 we obviously reinforced all the measures, as it pointed out today morning, and I'm not going to extend on every one of them. So it's very clear that our line is a very different line from what you're commenting on here. We want 10,000 families not to pay for buying a habitual housing at TPO, which is our competition. We want to keep betting on innovation, not that it's about innovicides, like this morning, because we bet on and make it easier for IRPF to deduce technology-based companies or for research grants. We're still deep in successions on the subjects of the brothers, something very dear. Four thousand people are going to benefit from these kinds of performances every year. Don't you understand that we're already talking about many hundreds of thousands of people who on the one hand or on the other are already looking at this possibility that it's called available income savings, an increase that has another type of activation? I'll explain now why we refuse the tax exemption from BNG. On the proposal of new sections of the IRPF for incomes exceeding EUR 120,000, because of the structure of incomes that exist in Galicia, it would have a lower impact than in other territories. Besides, this raise would be mainly supported by income from work, since this type represents 84% of the tax base. With regard to BNG's intention to suppress changes in the tax of successions and donations, of course we're not going to eliminate it, as I said a moment ago. With regard to the rise in property tax, to reiterate that what we are doing is to return to the starting situation before the crisis; that is, we resume the current prevailing tariff. All we have to look at is on the side of the autonomous communities next to us, and we have the historical precedents where we're in government was left-handed to eliminate, I don't say to lower, a 20% tax rate. With regard to the intention to create a new tax on empty dwellings, clarify that we are currently awaiting the Constitutional Court's ruling on this type of tax created in Catalonia in 2015. But also remember that in Galicia we are working on a project of rehabilitation and regeneration and urban renewal that regulates the canon of buildings declared in state of abandonment and will record those buildings that are declared in state of abandonment by the Galician Institute of Housing and Solo. We will start applying it in 2020 and the first income will occur in 2021. In addition, income will be used for rehabilitation actions in Rexurbe areas where property declared in state of abandonment is located. On the formulation of a tax on large surfaces, so far there was a question of legality. The spokesperson for the BNG has already come forward. Indeed, in this sense, the Supreme Court has called for several cases to clarify doubts to the Union Court of Justice on the adequacy of this tax that exists in Catalonia, Asturias and Aragon. Yes, we know. And on 26 April, what the Court of Justice of the Union answers is that certain benefits established for specific establishments constituted a State's non-help, and this is to be verified by the Spanish court. I mean, that's how we walk with the ball from side to side, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, Europe, comes back, like... In this respect, the Supreme Court handed down different judgments in October — October is the other day — by which it states that the exemption from Catalan tax for commercial surface taxes of more than 2,500 square meters, the large surfaces, turns out that if it constitutes State aid. As for the high-contained beverage tax in sugar, it must be remembered that it was approved in Catalonia — even last year — and that it states that companies are obliged to have a consumer tax. In this respect, the primary sector, the food and beverage processing industry, the distribution, the restoration presented a litigation-administrative remedy against the regulation of this Catalan Government tax and we are still waiting for the pronouncement. But, indeed, there is a public health issue here, which can be shared more or less, but what is clear from the fiscal point of view is that there is a direct impact on the consumer. I'm saying when it comes to direct, indirect or certain types of damage. On tax for electronic communications services, to point out that, indeed, it is also in Catalonia in 2014, but has been declared unconstitutional since 2017. We don't know, really, eh! But if I were Catalan, I would obviously not have fit in the legal system. As for high-voltage network tax, it's a tax that, as you know, has Asturias, Rioxa, Estremadura, Canarias, although in the latter case law enforcement is suspended. In Catalonia, Aragon and Castile-Leon, in the three communities, only record the transport of electricity. Types of recording range between 700 and 1,200 euros per kilometer and high voltage line and the collection range range between 1 and 2 million euros. I don't think it's very advisable to set up such a tax when we're talking about 1 or 2 million, at least from a fiscal point of view. In addition, in view of the latest judgments of the Supreme Court, it must be assessed whether it is appropriate to establish tax figures which can finally be passed on to the final consumer. As for the minorities, I'll explain why we can't carry out the measures that you propose. Some amendments are simply impossible to accept, because they could not be put into practice, because they reduce games funded mostly, as I said earlier, with European funds or state finalists. Other amendments reduce the appropriations for operating expenses so much that it would be impossible to address ordinary issues of the necessary autonomous administration and to always provide services to citizens. And they even pull 30 million for digital health. But are we really serious about applying new technologies in public health? They also claim once again to reduce the cost of potential staff. I think I've already answered this in the morning. It just seems surprising to me that some people who have been responsible for government -- there's been some time, too, it's true -- still continue with the fear of potential staff, when today we have more than 27% less than what was at the time and without a structure of misery like there was at that time, that there were people hired less than 1,000 euros in the structure of the Presidency of the Union itself. It's something that really makes me a huge repulsive. As I see what's needed, I'd tell you another data that's also a simple deduction from what I gave in the morning. In potential staff, since we're a government, we've saved more than 20 million euros in possible cabinet staff; 20 million euros has saved this government. I've told you on many occasions that BNG should not try to do demagogy on this subject, please. They're not credible, because when they rule they always do the opposite of what we're asked when they're from the opposition. It's also recurrent that they ask us to reduce expenses in splits we've allocated less than half of the previous Government. I'll focus. Again, with the updated data. We're down 53%, but there's got to be some expense in the office too, right? 100% doesn't exist. Protocolary expenditure: we've reduced it by more than 51%; and today we've heard the channel of expenditure in protocolary care again. Expenditures on meetings, conferences and courses: we've reduced them by almost 54%, for the tenth year, and we've been following him. Advertising and propaganda costs: we reduce them by 60%. I don't think many more examples are needed. They also seek to reduce the credit provided for the Ourense Intermodal Station. Don't BNG really want to bet on intermodality in Ourense? I think one of you should go to Ourense to explain this, because if we want to do the Ourense intermodal or the rest of the big cities of Galicia, which is what we're doing, somewhere have to get the credits out. You can discuss the model, the model like that, but you can reduce credits so you don't do one thing, given the state of the current situation in the project, it just seems amazing to me. Also a group that is always giving us lessons on this side of the bench of what public health can be eliminates the resources for the operation of the Galician Animal Health Laboratory itself, which we have located in Lugo. But what do we intend? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I guess it's gonna be real mistakes, I don't mind what they might be. But it's always the same when we look like this. Or when they withdraw the funding we've given to the Fontán building in the City of Culture in Santiago. But don't you realize that it's not a building, that this building is really the function that you're going to have is research into social sciences, in relation to the three universities? There are other amendments that refer to applications that do not exist, but in this case I do understand that this will be a mistake. What's already more than an error is to propose reductions in funding transfers to entities, which, as you know, there's a correlation: a minority of transfers within-appropriation of the budget itself of those entities, because if not, we'd be here cheating. If we don't play... [[Murmurs.]] These are the cases of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, the Galician Waters, the Forest Agency, the Tourism Agency, with various and varied examples. Or also the increases in credit in their amendments. Here they act in the reverse of minorities, because they propose an increase in credits, for example to transfer to Igape but then they don't increase Igape's credits; that is, they come through funding, but then Igape can't finance anymore; I'm sorry, Paco. And there are also some curious cases that claim increases in credits for the creation of a Welsh public bank, a Welsh research entity, and the destination that are formulated is capital transfers to private companies. Do you understand? When I fill myself with the word rigor — and we make more mistakes than anyone, because we carry more things, we should have a little more humility among all of us in the way we treat things. It doesn't seem very coherent. I therefore believe that there are more than justifiable reasons to reject their amendments. The PSdEG spokesman also tells him that we refuse to go up to the Greeks 160 million, as his group proposes, in taxes. Of course. Plus, we're going in the order, 200 the BNG, 160 the PSdEG, 150 the Marea; I think we're going like this... we're not talking about the amounts that were other years, it's true as well. We're all slowly recasting. I repeat: we don't want the citizens of Greece paying more for the IRPF, I think we have the right rate for the type of rents we have in Galicia. We don't want him paying any more for the estate tax. We don't want you paying more for environmental taxes, either, those 24.5 that you propose. We refused, which was as I told them before, the tax of large surfaces. Nor do we see consistent increases in income by 21 million euros in successions, fully online, as I already told you, contrary to what is happening in all of the autonomous communities. So I've already told you that the explanations I gave earlier to BNG in general are extrapolable to both the PSdEG and En Marea. There is the same scheme of resolutions in which, once again, you all continue to fall. There is a tax of what I would like to talk about for a moment, as is the tax on installations affecting the environment, such as telephony and the lines of electricity transport, which we do not know is, apart from the formulae, how they calculate the amount charged to this measure of EUR 18 million. I say this because I repeat that in this tax, which already has some autonomy, the quota varies between 700 and 1,200 euros per kilometre and line, and with this kind of new type of error we are incuring the same mistake again. This would mean a collection of between 1 and 2 million euros. What are we talking about in tax matters with this kind of magnitude? And so on. In Galicia I will also tell you that, with regard to the emission of harmful gases to the atmosphere, we have already got a tax on our own to charge these substances, and we have applied it since 1996, which is the air pollution tax. So with the expansion of the taxable amount and tax to other substances that burn other autonomys, it would not be possible to raise the 6.5 million euros that you propose in your amendments and calculations, sometimes glass ball. As for the rise in current taxes on the use of encouraged water or on air pollution, also to collect another 6.5 million euros, or on atmospheric pollution, for 2.5 million euros, it is not up to, as you well know — that this is also a technique that I think we should know virtually everyone here in this Parliament — their modification, for purely collection reasons and that they have a clearly environmental purpose. I don't really explain it. As for the intention of the PSdEG that we increase the income forecast by 21 million euros more by the collection of succession taxes, 20.6 by property transmissions and documented legal acts, we do not confuse again what are the recognized net rights and the adjustment that must be made at the end of the year to bring down certain tax issues that we have. Let us not confuse the evolution that we are bringing to this Parliament on a quarterly basis with the adjustment that we have to make in the last quarter, which causes this kind of situation. So it's very easy for us to go through estimation errors and call income income that won't be true at the end of the exercise. And on the alleged greater resources of an improved management in the fight against tax fraud, we note that the section of the fight against fraud, the departure to which 17 million euros are charged to fines and tax penalties, if you're referring to this as an improvement in the management of tax, I want to urge you, as I have already told you about the tax on successions and donations, one thing is the amounts of net recognized rights published every quarter and another the final liquidation of the year by the cancellations of the exercise. The fight against tax fraud, this government has been driven, as it said before, since 2009, by strengthening it with the creation of the Tax Agency. For example, in the past exercise, we raised 144.2 million euros undeclared and reviewed more than 325,000 self-liquidations, which I assumed in particular 21% more than the previous year. So you can always do something else, but in the amounts that we're talking about tax fraud and fight tax fraud, I think we're in a perfectly comparable rate to any other administration or in the high part of the fight against these kinds of actions, to no avail. We cannot agree with the formulation of taking into account EUR 140 million more in revenue for a supposed higher deficit margin, again the famous 0.3%. It's just that, really, at this point, the one that's falling into Spain, talking about 0.3%, when there's the vast majority of autonomous communities that have presented their budget and go to the legal, unique, established path right now, which is 0.1%, and that still brings 0.3% to this chamber, is really worrying. How worrying it is that we are asked for greater indebtedness when, as you well know, there is not a fiscal rule, but there are four: public deficit, debt, spending rule and average payment period, with different intensity in the different groups. But there is a master rule that plays for this autonomous community as is the spending rule since 2016, 2017 and 2018 and next, which is the spending rule. It is only with that rule that any type of increments when the propensity to debt tends to zero that it would be indebted to us for what?, do we owe ourselves to what?, if the spending capacity is limited by the spending rule, which is the tendency to increase the economy, in this case both Greek and Spanish, by the reference rate, that for the next year will be 2.7%, with the different adjustments that we have to make in national accounting. But then, why are we fooling people with intended incomes that will then not be able to be executed if we believe each and every one of the rules they play in fiscal consolidation? Or are they asking us to break the law? I think, therefore, we should be a little careful about the formulations we sometimes make. I'm not going to get into any other kind of minorities. I'm telling you, it can't be more than surprising once again. But year after year, I'm back here talking about spending on office staff, non-material expenses, I'm sending back to what I've already told BNG, and the same thing for the M.E.G. when the time comes. They grow every time they can and have occasion. Please don't give classes on the subject of high office and possible staff. Like the BNG with regard to minorities, on occasion they seek to extract resources from shares that are from finalist funds and from European funds. We can't do what we're told, it would be impossible to apply. In addition, it turns out that they ask for the free fares of the Welsh highways, with a spending of 10 million euros. And it's something that's already beginning to throw me off. In Galicia 10 million euros in peaxe on the highways of Galicia, and it turns out that there is a government in Madrid where, through balloon probes — or not so much probes — it turns out that what is being considered is putting toll on all the highways, all the highways, with the excuse of conservation. But what are we left with? It's just that you have to become a little tararian, but well... [[Applause]] And then, as for chascarrillos we all have, I'm sure when they read our budgets, we also have a few, I'm not saying no. But it's very appealing at times that social touch that they show so much in this case. I'm still referring to the PSdEG, because I suppose it will be unnoticed, but to reduce by 30% the game we're going to be in for union elections, I must be, someone has been wrong ; I don't think they talked to the unions, they're asking us for election after a little more choice. [[Laughter]] Home!, they ask a lot more, we get to a little more, sometimes the same, but it's just asking to lower 30% for union elections...! I think we're all making mistakes, so a little more than... until we're even asking for the Contingency Fund to be reduced in enough proportion, when we have more than adjusted it; a little more and it's going to be a 0 Kelvin, right? What I'm worried about -- and this is why I'm not making a joke, because it does bring me a little personal pain -- because when we talk so much about public health, look at a game where they come to propose reduction as is the Mental Health Program, then I think it has to be a mistake. It's a mistake, because I can't believe it, that no group in the House consciously brings to this House a reduction in the credits that covered the Mental Health Program. I think we should have taken a little more care of each other. In Marea already told them earlier: we do not agree on the model, Mr. Lago. You spoke zero minutes and to me that I was told that this morning I delayed forty-eight, at the end were forty-two -- well, the way to count In Marea is different -- and that you didn't talk about certain issues... you talked very little about these, about what brought us here at this point in the afternoon to talk like the rest of the groups, but I will, because I took the liberty, with my people, to look at how much they worked on this subject as well. I'm also telling you that I think we're going to make progress properly, because if the Block asks me for 200 more in taxes, the PSdEG 160 and In Marea 150, we're going to do something well; it's not that much, but little by little it's going to go towards what we think it should be, because of two questions: a positive ecosystem, although it's better at its management; it's better conditioned so that it can be the evolution of spending linked to the spending rule, and so that we don't do experiments except -- and then we'll find ourselves in due course -- on issues that can have evolved environmental nature, as it happens in normal societies, and I think that more and more in Galicia. So they won't find us here in the 150 million euros increase through the tax route. We're not going to do that to the Greeks and the Greeks and at the same time we're not going to include another 238 million in the budgets on any legal basis. Because you, who always speaks of being right, who are right, who are wrong, that... man!, don't make us paint 238 million euros of a pretended guess that it will be due to the funding system when they don't come in. We already see with the numbers that are quite difficult we've already had and other communities to recognize the 198 million EVI, that these are indeed own of the current system, and let's not play with the numbers, please! Therefore, each and every one of the issues I've been telling his predecessors, he knows that by the structure of what was transmitted to us by En Marea they are already answered. Also on the tax side, where there are higher tax increases, as well as on the part of what are tax reductions, where they have to read with all the discount bay we've established. It would be good if all and every of the groups that are going to be taken from us were to be told once and for all: to certain aids that we have for birth, to certain aids that we have for disability, to certain improvements that we have in heritage transmissions for the purchase of habitual housing? Why don't we put on names and names when we're told to lower the tax benefits, so that everyone can see? That's a decision as legitimate as to remove it, like the proposal you make. In fact, but let's tell whoever wants to take it out, let's say what Robin Hood's theory is, that you practice so much, that despotism illustrated at the same time to tell people: you're not able to have this responsibility in your hands, give it to me, that I know what I'm going to do with them. Man, we've evolved a little more in all these years. Therefore, the proposal that you have, Mr. En Marea, ladies and gentlemen of En Marea, to increase 213 million euros of income coming from the state, I really don't understand how you play, to draft the system of self-financing and are able to come to the conclusion that, with the current methodology, in each of the four funds we have, it turns out that the Autonomous Community of Galicia, based on data that only has the Marea, if it owes us 213 million euros. Then we should have opened a commission, Mr. Lago; we should have opened a commission because, really, even if it was just one, this one who spoke to them and all his team, this government that supports it, we would be fighting but as a cat belly up. We can't play that way with numbers, man! And what's already incredible is the increase that occurs as a result of the funds that must come from the Interterritorial Compensation Fund. I believe that this is decided, firstly, in Parliament and on the basis of certain real investment parameters that are placed in the State budgets, and now we are told that we have to receive more this year in a quantity? This is pure and hard volunteerism, this is shamanism, this has nothing to do with the political economy. And again, I don't know what's wrong with you guys in Ourense, because I'm looking at some of Ourense's representatives there, but... that mania we've got Ourense's ones, because again at Ourense's intermodal station, it turns out that it's also decreasing and at the same time for the rest of the intermodals if you ask for 4 million more. I don't know what about Ourense. I don't know that he has Ourense intermodal. [[Murmurs.]] You can't admit that kind of question. So, and without getting more into it, that there was a flap of them -- I really have to talk for a little bit more -- I think it's time for me to finish my intervention. What characterizes, generally and commonly, the amendments of opposition groups is that we have very difficult incomes, not to say so much as impossible — are different DNAs that we have in this matter — to accept them. From our point of view, they are unreachable, unreachable, based on income that will not be perceived. And let's never do what's done again in 2008 and 2009, we'll never paint revenue like in 2008 and 2009. Others are supported in the creation of taxes of dubious legality or respond to tax increases which, in addition to not agreeing, are largely quantified or, in the event of this, would lead to an unmeasured increase in some taxes. As for the reduction of expenditure, you agree — I repeat again — that each and every one of the groups, in drawing up finalist funds from the state or European funds, which cannot be used for the purpose they propose. They withdraw fundamental and priority games for the budgetary strategy of this government, which, therefore, we cannot accept. They may even decrease or virtually eliminate items necessary for the proper functioning of the Administration. For all these reasons, coherence advises — and in this government we seek to be consistent with its government programme — not to accept these proposals that affect our priorities or prevent the normal and correct functioning of public services that our citizens do deserve. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u74	Thank you, Counselor. Non-amendant Group, People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, I was thinking that, Mr. President, you're going to have to think about opening the skylight, because any day the paratrooper will arrive, bring it to the Falcon and the Socialist Party will have a new spokesperson. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Good afternoon to all. After hours of intense debate on the budgets, we found... After hours of intense debate, we find that the Greeks and the Greeks actually have two options. [[Murmurs.]] There's the first option, the Government option, a government with a majority that supports it and that represents most of the Greeks, a majority that presents to Galicia a few serious accounts, a realistic accounts, adapted to Galicia's current needs, accounts that are again betting on economic growth, job creation, tax reductions and the improvement of our public services. [[Applause]] And on the other hand, in the face of this rigorous government, there is an opposition made up of three minority minorities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Three minorities who have a lot of horrors. First, more taxes, more debt, more deficit. So they want less economic growth, they want less employment, they want worse public services for the next generation of Greeks and Greeks. That's your model. But we can also confront the model in Spain and Galicia, because we also have two models: the model that Galicia represents, the model of President Feijóo, a model of institutional stability, a model of majority, centered on the real needs of Galicia, of the present, but also thinking about the future. And we have on the other hand the model of the Socialist Party, the model of President Sánchez, the model of instability, the model of the sum of minorities, the model of support in radicalism, whose only political project is their personal survival. That's the reality. And so here we know that January 1 is going to have some budgets in place in our community and what we have of course is that in the whole state there will be no budgets, because, by the way, you don't know when they're going into force, but you don't even know when they're going to enter the Congress of Deputies, when they're going into the House; probably, at no time. The amendments tabled by the various opposition groups are clearly what their model is. It's the model of the flavour of the Greeks. His tax bids usually raise taxes to the Greeks in 464 million euros for next year. BNG wants €190 million more in taxes, the Socialist Party €123 million more in taxes, the Tides want €150 million more in taxes. Tax report to the whole of the Greeks. Our model is the tax discount. We did it in 2016, we did it in 2017, we did it in 2018, and we're going to do it again in 2019. Then we see they propose new taxes, but they don't coordinate the three minority minorities, they don't talk to each other. Look, it's hot water tax. The Marea intends to raise EUR 50 million, the Socialist Party says that this tax would amount to EUR 6 million in 2019. Taxes of empty dwellings. The BNG wants to raise 36 million euros; the tide, 2. You're coordinated, you share information, I'm a magnificent alternative to Galicia. Large surface tax. BNG wants to raise 30 million euros; the tide, 4; and the PSOE, 6. They agree. Taxes on sugared beverages. BNG says you can raise 11 million euros; the tide believes you can raise half a million euros. What a mental cocoa that has the opposition here in Galicia. And then there is the Socialist Party, who lives a process of frankly worrying empowerment. I suppose it's because of their dependence on that Government of Spain that they now pronounce with so much certainty. I am glad that the socialist spokesman criticizes the governor of the Bank of Spain, Mr. Fernández Ordóñez, because indeed he was unable to point out or put the alarms on what was happening in our country. And we saw that he was worried about the industry. Caramba!, if you are worried about the industry, do something, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, because in the case of Alcoa they may be doing something and not do it; and in the case of Meirama and the thermal power station of the Bridges, they might be stopping sending frank negative and worrying messages. Concerned about industry? [[Applause]] We don't believe them. They're not. They're not. And you were talking about a wedding. I suppose if that wedding, instead of being in the Coruña, was in Vigo, I wouldn't criticize her. Look, Mr. Amancio Ortega is a man made to himself, a man made to himself. A clear example of a social elevator, an entrepreneur who generates in our community 30,000 jobs between direct and indirect. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, I believe that criticism should direct you with a little more control and rigor on your part. Tell you that we're not worried about poverty. But how dare you say this? Look, I know they don't like us comparing when you rule. Between 2017 and the budget we are going to approve has now risen social spending in our community 473 million euros more, in three years. That's commitment. Income from Galician social integration. Do you know how much risk you were doing when you were ruling? 23 million. Do you know how much he's dedicated now? 64, 64. We nearly tripled the investment in Galician social integration income. Funds devoted to social inclusion and poverty. When you ruled, 66 million; today, 115 million euros. Who is more committed to social inclusion? But do you want to take our hair, Mr. Losada? I believe that there must be strict work, and therefore I believe that these amendments that you present need precisely the slightest rigour. They demand, as always, that any staff be reduced or that they go down directly to zero, they want to leave without telephone connections to all the councils of the Galician Union, they want to eliminate spending on maintenance and computer equipment, they want to eliminate the expenditure on insurance and funds at zero. Did the Galician board run with you with zero euros in potential staff, zero euros in telephone and material spending? Did the Galician board run without paper or pens, Mr. Losada? But I think, therefore, that they should be much stricter in the amendments to this debate from the different groups. They want to reduce any staff costs. But if we cut any staff costs around 40% as far as you're in charge. They just got to the Government of Spain, and you know what they did the first week? Increase the salary cost of ministers by 30%, and potential staff, advisers by 25%. But do you want to take our hair, Mr. Losada? Twenty-five percent. You, who like heerotecas so much, I think you should go more to them. Finally, this is the model of the opposition: advisors who run without office material, without telephone, teachers of the concert that better not cover, students of the concert that would be left without classes on January 1st... that's the model of the opposition parties. The rigor to power, of course. What an example, what a coat of hair! Well, Mr. Losada, if that's not what you propose, when the amendments from the other groups are voted against. But you are going to vote in favour of what these groups propose. So don't get shocked. Look, you must know the rural people in Marea are proposing to cut off compensation for wolf attacks. They must know the mayors of the small municipalities that the PSOE proposes to eliminate the departure to draft basic urbanism plans for the municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants. They must know the Galicians that the Galician Nationalist Block proposes to cut 9 million euros in advance for the aid they are going to give them. That's your model. And then I think not so bad, don't you? Because it's true that you fill your mouth with criticisms towards the German Government and then at the time of truth you're not where you're expected. They say from the Socialist Party: Greek health is fatal because of the tremendous cuts made by the People's Party. I usually say that Mr. Torrido every time he goes up to the rostrum, but the same thing all Members should know is that when he makes alternative budgets, when he presents these amendments, Mr. Torrido's group is going up the budget of the Health Council by 1.6%. Home!, it must not be so bad the budget and commitment of the Galician Union to health when you have the opportunity to present an alternative budget model and believe that public health is managed with 1.6% more. Go placard of opposition groups! The Greek public education is completely dismantled. That's what she tells us from the Nationalist Galego block in a usual way to Mrs. Rodil. But what happens at the time of truth? That in the alternative budgets of the Galician Nationalist Block departures for education rise by 0.4%. I suppose they're in accordance with the education policy of the Galician Union at 99.5%. Of course, the risk is totally insufficient — since the Tides of Puddings — which is totally insufficient. In their alternative budgets they suppose? 0,6 % more. So they're in agreement with the current budgets at 99.6%. And then there's the Socialist Party, with Mrs Toja, who usually tells us that the world of the sea is fatal and that the budget of the Galician Union is insufficient. And as it is insufficient, the Socialist Party proposes to lower it further, lower it by 3.8 million euros. Mr. Losada, thank you for your initiatives. [[Applause]] And then there's the snippet into infrastructures and cashews. In all infrastructure committees both Mr Cal and Mr Bará ask for new works, urgent repairs, water actions. And then, in fact, the tides turn out to take 34 million euros off the Infrastructure and Water Council, and the BNG, which doesn't want to stay behind, wants to reduce the budget of this council by 70 million euros, almost 20%. What are we left with, opposition gentlemen? That, yes, I do not resist to comment, before I finish, one last thing about the Podemos Tides, because they have eliminated 34 million euros from the infrastructures but in their alternative there are only 3 money that they want to include, which is: 1 million euros for the road to Ramallosa, Teo's Town Hall—government the Tides—; 1 million and a half euros for the variant of Aradas, Santiago Town Hall—government the Tides—and 1.5 million euros for the variant of Cangas —caramba, surprise, there also govern the Tides. That is indeed a caciquil distribution through the cross-sectional amendments they present. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, what I'm telling you is that these budgets are being prepared at the headquarters of the Galician Union in San Caetano and are being negotiated in the Galician Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u77	I know you're negotiating your budgets at Podemo's headquarters and also at Spain's prisons, but we certainly don't agree with you and of course we're going to reject your amendments. Look, our model is completely radical to yours. We believe in creating jobs; you want to destroy it. We believe in lower taxes; you want to raise them. We believe in less debt and less deficit; and you want to unlock the deficit and debt...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u79	...all the Greeks. Of course, for that journey it doesn't count on us. Fortunately, there's a government here, there's a majority here, there's three minority minorities, which I don't think they've even studied the budgets of the Galician Union for next year. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u80	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. We greet the residents and the staff of Lieutenant Colonel Barroso, here in Santiago, who accompany us today from the rostrum. Welcome to Parliament. And now yes, you have the floor, in reply time, by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u81	These budgets are being negotiated in Parliament, Mr. Tellado says... this is how the Comedy Club looks. [[Laughter]] Curious concept of negotiation. [[Applause]] Now, he did say they were drawn up in San Caetano, and I very much appreciate Mr. Martínez's not going to see any ex-minister of the People's Fairy Party in prison to ask him for advice, because the truth is... [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes, I think you're making Mr. Tellado some mention of his great obsession, which is Otegis. I suppose you're affected by the last considerations of Strasbourg; I'm sorry, Mr. Tellado, but... [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, I'll talk about what's important. I think you two should coordinate a little bit because, of course, Mr. Martínez tells us that they are very similar to each other the amendments, which is all a whole revolutionum; that is, bad because we are repetitive, I suppose. And for Mr. Tellado, bad because we have differences. Anyway. Focusing a little more on the issues that Mr. Martínez has already spoken about and which are worth a little more: he spoke of humility, he said the pot to the barn too! It's clear that one more year we've suspended in budgetary techniques; you too, because often they make self-modifications to the state of expenditure itself, to issues of errors in the articulated and so on. But the most worrying thing, or what should worry them from the point of view of a government, is that you suspend in dialogue. Because, one more year, it is clear — and we can already make a prediction of the future — that they will not accept a single proposal to the state of expenditure. I can even understand that an amendment to the whole does not accept it, but what we do not understand is that there is so little will of dialogue on issues that are guided by this proposal, that will be discussed in the partial amendments and that, one more year, they give the same; you don't have the slightest will to dialogue. It's a shame I haven't had unlimited time like you, but I'll answer some questions. Ourense intermodal: look, don't come here to demagogy, we didn't give down any nominations. In any case, don't worry; we too, in partial amendments, present amendments to the Ourense intermodal to have a real intermodal, not what you want to do, which is to make a roundabout health center. So don't worry, that when you really want to improve Ourense intermodal this group will be next to you, as you've been constantly presenting claims to the projects. [[Applause]] It's about 30 million digital health that we reduce, and so on. Yes, of course, we have a different model: to use the public resources of all and all to strengthen areas of health such as primary care, which is in a critical situation; not to give money counts to Indra or to Evers of former Minister Serra. That's your scan, Mr. Martínez, but we didn't buy it. [[Applause]] You're also talking about tax policy. He said a great truth, which is that our fiscal policy is going against that of the People's Party; indeed. Mr. Tellado was talking about the flavour of the Greeks and the Greeks. Not at all! I know, in any case, the companies and sectors that must be recorded. Of course, I don't know what the problem is with charging the Voitre funds — Sareb and the financial institutions — which are the main ones responsible for the increasing progress of the German housing market in a pure and hard speculative market, and that the housing issue is a problem. [[Applause]] We, of course, are in favour and are in favour of the debate on this issue. It's just that you, by no means, don't even want to open a debate on the question of sugared beverages. Look, it's just that repercussions on the consumer also impact the accounts of a part of tobacco, and I don't think you're coming to say that tobacco taxes are very bad, because they have an impact on public health. It's something where the consensus has been reached and it's there. High-voltage networks: look, you're here to tell me that this can end up affecting consumers, considering that they have up to November 30 of this month to end impacting on the autonomic supplements that BNG warned for years and that they're going to cost the Greeks an increase of thirty-eight million euros on the bill of light, is to have the level of demagoxia very high this afternoon. First, Aragon has this tax and has not been affected by the territorial supplements because it is not the generation. [[Applause]] And then he also said that 1.3 million seemed little to him. If we love moderate counties, bad counties; if we love high counties, bad counties too. Clearly, there is no serious debate. And you also spoke in the morning that this was a debate for incorporations. But what do you include? If they're not willing to do anything! Because look, I'm going to put three very specific examples of issues in which a debate could be opened. For example, triple the university scholarships: this is six million euros in a volume of more than nine billion euros. Why not open a debate on this particular issue? Why not open a debate on the specific question of extending oral health? Or why not strengthen the accounts for a payroll? Mr. Martínez, this is not an exam, but of course it's not a real debate either, because you have no intention of accepting anything at all. In short, the battery we make is fundamental issues, questions that would open up new horizons and allow us to open up a different future. And, therefore, we will continue to insist. And I would like to make one last mention of something that seems fundamental to me — that I have already told you in the commission and that I see today in the obligation to repeat — that it is not at all presentable for us to come here by the German Government to talk about budgets and that it does not always make a single mention of the precarious work that exists in this country. That is why we are also presenting a battery of employment questions and we will continue to insist on the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u82	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u83	Because it is not — and I will finish, Mr President — that GDP increases, that the macroeconomic framework increases, but how those incomes are distributed, how effort is distributed and how that wealth creation is distributed. I finish by simply teaching a cover that is illustrative — since we do not have unlimited time, an image is worth more than a thousand words — about the reality that is consolidating in this country. Today this is the cover of La Voz de Galicia: exit Alejandro Rivero, neurologist, bachelor's award in 2008. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos showed you a document to the members of the House.]] He gets the National End of Career Award today and says, "My perspective is to get unemployed." We don't want such a future in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u85	We want to create jobs and we want to bet on public services and another productive model. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, I don't know very well where to start. It could start with Ourense and the budgets of the city of Ourense, which we all know move the same stability and budgetary security since 2014, I think it is. I think it's a good frame. And then, when we talk about intermodals, we can also start with the Coruña, which is also an important element. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Tellado, the truth is there is the People's Party to talk about weddings and prisons. I believe it is the perfect metaphor for the political history of this country and the People's Party : the wedding of the Escorial and Soto of the Real Corporation. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Exactly weddings and prisons. [[Applause]] Look, do you know what the difference is? I don't know if the Government of the Socialist Party was to negotiate budgets on a chain. The people of the People's Party, when they were ministers who were now in prison, executed the budgets of all Spaniards, you know? So look, I don't think they're for that. They're not about industry either. I could talk about Navantia, I could talk about the frigates—now I'm going to listen to you, I was missing!—I could talk about Mr. Morenés' businesses, I could talk about Minister Arias Cañete and his fuel supply company on the Strait of Gibraltar... you know? [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] They have to talk about the absolute collision of public and private interests when they rule, that's the problem of the People's Party. Sadly, only a few are in prison. They have to talk about it. [[Applause]] That's what they have to talk about. Look, Counselor, tell you that your option is to lower taxes. I congratulate him, for once he speaks of ideology. Now I want you to tell me, what do we cut? Of course, you say "low taxes"; I don't usually hear it on the popular bench. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Actually, lowering taxes is a legitimate ideology. Mr. Counselor said it; I'm not inventing it, he said it; he said that we ask for taxes to some who marry — which I think something else can pay — and he says that tax should be lowered. I think it's all right, but I want to know: what do we cut? Because miracles, Counselor, I don't believe in miracles. And the multiplication of peas and fish, perhaps in Lake Tiberias you would, but in the developed Western world you know perfectly well that you don't. Then too, look: they misreported. We didn't draw a euro from the Mental Health Plan; on the contrary, we added four million euros to the Mental Health Plan. See what you're voting for now, because you're so worried. By the way, I find it regrettable that he came here to talk about the mental health plan when they voted fifteen days ago against remedying the situation of the conxo Psychiatric Hospital. It's just that you have to have a face, because you don't say anything else! [[Applause]] Now they come here from the mental health plan bannermen, and they've got sick people without reports who've spent 40 years in a 19th-century psychiatric. Listen, please, a little political decency! I say "political" so I don't get the president's attention. Of course, preventive medicine, which is called. [[The President said words that were not understood.]] Good. [[Mr. President: no, it's not that, but that's another subject.]] In health care, ninety-four million euros of expenditure increase, I don't know if it's one percent — or I don't know how much percent — of an budget that, obviously, in health care, is three billion euros, a lot of money! But I insist: ninety-four million more. Look, I don't know what they're waiting for to support you. And look, I, in all these matters, return to the central element, because I repeat again that of the question of people, of people, I've already spoken about. We've been saying that people's whole thing is something we don't like conceptually. We don't like it because there are people who need the public domain and others who don't need it. And I believe that we must rule, of course, for all, and not assault anyone's rights; but we must govern for those who need the public domain, Counsellor. And I'm going to give you an interesting example of a city I know well, which is Vigo's. When the funding system for the construction of the hospital was changed, which at the end was a report that was made in twenty-four hours by the person who at that time was the general intervener of Galicia, Mrs. Muñoz Fonteriz — it seems that much more efficient as an intervener than as a candidate for the Mayorship of the People's Party — in that change in the financing system — which is costing us a fortune to the Greeks — we heard here day after day that in the Balearics the socialists were doing the same and that Mr. Antioch had a similar financing system. [[Murmurs.]] Then, when Jaume Matas was jailed for being charged with hiring that hospital in Son Spases, it seems that it wasn't Antioch, which was a little earlier, and that the decision to make others. And the Government that is now – a very dangerous government, these of the revolutionary left – has just given freeness in the private parking lot – which was part of the Matas negotiation, which took the pasta to its home, for the 15th century palace in downtown Palma and therefore is in prison – and that parking lot will be free. I hope, Counselor,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u89	...that you are able to do something similar at Álvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo Hospital. Vigo's citizens would be delighted with that, but I'm afraid you won't; just as they would be absolutely delighted that bad management when they rule in some areas had been solved. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the theme of PLISAN: The Government of the Socialist Party in Madrid has been ruling for just six months.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u91	"Zona Franca unlocks with the Hydrographic Confederation the urbanization of the dry port." What did they do? [[Murmurs.]] In the Free Zone, Mrs. Pedrosa I know what she was doing: cover the holes that Mr. Feijóo had in Vigo, that he didn't invest even a euro. And what did Mrs Pedrosa and the President of the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation do at the time? Because in six years — and here I have taught the pictures dozens of times — nothing has been done at all. Therefore, Counselor, I really congratulate you because you explicitly say that what you like is to lower taxes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u93	But I ratify myself: shameful ideology and evil management.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u95	And by the way, you have to explain — and you have an intervention — one hundred and forty million euros of budgetary changes on December 31, 2017 to pay... [[Mr. Losada Álvarez shows you a document to the members of the House.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u96	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u97	By the way, 40 million euros, and this still doesn't run...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u98	Mr. Losada, it's over, thank you very much for your intervention. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea Mr. Lago Peñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u99	Mr. Tellado, you have to change your speech. We could: throw them out of the Coruña, throw them out of Ferrol, throw them out from Madrid, throw them out from Valencia... and throw the party convicted of corruption from the Government of the State! [[Applause]] Of course we could! [[Applause]] Yes you can! Yes you can! [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Counsellor, I hope that when I review the plenary, you will feel a little ashamed of your mediocre and parliamentary pettyity. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And this Member spoke to you here, with documents and reports, of politics, and you started your intervention by trying to disqualify me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's a pettyness and an intolerable mediocrity in a parliament. Let me use popular wisdom. Hurt not what you want, but who can. And you, Counselor, you can't offend me. [[Applause]] I spend a second just to say that when in 2005 I went to work on Galician TV, the TVG was on negative funds, it was broken, it had a negative maneuver fund and I wasn't able to pay the suppliers. And there's an audit of [...]—they can ask the former Economics and Fairy advisor if you know her, where she said so. When we left the TV, the debt was half. And the management team that followed continued with the same strategy that we had, which we then wanted to tell. Just like I'm telling you the difference between the GDP deflector and the IPC, because we're not going to be the one in this legislation that I understand. I'm going to place it, Counselor. I'm going to make ten statements and I'm using it so that at some point what's left of legislation may be able to deny only one, and I'm like the rest. Galicia is the last autonomous community in the INE quality of life indicator in October 2018. Galicia is the autonomous community with the worst evolution in the labour market since 2008. 97% of Galician citizenship believes that the economic situation is regular, bad or very bad. Galicia grows below the Spanish average between 2007 and 2017. Salary income is 1,250 million euros under 2008. Only 48% of the people affiliated to the General Social Security Regime in Galicia have an indefinite full-time contract. The IPC accumulated from January 2009 to October 2017 is 15.5%. In real terms, public spending is EUR 2 billion below the 2009 execution. The government stability program Rajoy committed to reducing the weight of public spending by three points to the year 2021. 53% of the Greek public debt is already in the hands of the Financial Facility, and that's the only reason why it lowered the interest rate. Counsellor, this is recorded, ten statements that define what is the result of your management. I use it to let him at any time, in the rostrum or in writing, deny only one of ten statements. One, Counselor. I believe that what I just reported describes the failure of his strategy in economic policy, which is essentially to lower taxes to the richest, but which has not served to dynamize the economy and therefore greater growth and hence better employment. It didn't happen in Galicia or happened anywhere else in the world, Counselor. Because when tax rates are lowered, the collection is lowered and there is less public resources. Let me tell you, it's not a resource problem. You challenge us by saying that our positions are inconsistent. Let me give you three digits. First. The tax benefits for the rich are EUR 490 million each year. A fair and fair weighted decline in this figure gives a good deal of resources. Second. The underestimation of revenue from the autonomous financing model between 2014 and 2017, do you have in mind what it was? 1,306 million euros, 326 million euros each year, when they make the budget, they say there will not be, and then the settlement of advances provides. Third. Counsellor, how can the Councillor in Galicia laugh at the proposal to modify the International Compensation Fund? The councillor in Madrid would do it, it's normal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u100	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u101	...but you do it, which under your government we have just received 250 million euros from the CFI to fund investments for the benefit of the territorial rebalancing, today 42! And you laugh at that situation! I remind you that your party has voted for initiatives in this House to recover the figures from the FCI. Finally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u103	...it's about deciding who you're with. You're with the social elite, we're mostly humiliated and offended because of the economic policies on the right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. You have the floor, in the closing shift, Mr. Martínez García, the councillor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u105	Thank you again, Mr. President. It is good that we have a bit of skin clear enough and hard enough to take on some of the things that are often said in Parliament. What I'm staying with is the decalogue that's just been introduced. The first decalogue, I think, of what we have more or less authentic record, is the ten commandments. Welcome to the club too! I guess it's almost going to be religious. But in the end, it focuses on two, which is very clear what the economy and society in Galicia is: growth above the environment, in a consolidated way over the past five years; with more and better employment, knowing that there is still much to be done, because eventually it is translating into better services for people. So I don't need to answer every point of the decade because they concentrate on two: better growth and better job creation. So let's have the skin a little calm. [[Applause]] Mr. Losada, we have nothing to hide. We've always been very clear in our fiscal option, of tax relief, where it's possible. Because we think it's possible. I understand that there are people who don't believe, and who purposely say that nowhere in the world has it been. It's a lot easier, because you don't have to look at a direct collection, but through other kinds of issues how income can be available to activate the general economy. I understand that this is first of all economics, but let's leave it as it is, because it's seen that the skin is short enough for some of the issues that are raised. We'll look at some questions, I'm not saying we always have the truth as a flag in our performance. I've been commenting on some of the issues that have happened to me, we'll look at them calmly, Mrs Presas, we're not afraid either to discuss the issues, and we'll see what they're going to be. It comes as soon as the ones we consider not to be truly acceptable, so we will say it in such a clear and clear way as I have spoken today. I think it's good that we end this whole debate, and really, just as I did in the morning with the speakers who intervened, I would also like to express my appreciation for today's interventions this afternoon. As is the rule in this debate, everyone has had the opportunity to explain the budget model he proposes and how it is carried out — hence there are parties to one color, one color and another ideology — through what measures and how to prioritize actions with the necessary resources. It also makes sense that visions are opposed, but — I insist — in any case, I believe that this kind of debate is always enriching. Obviously, from the Government we have our own model. A healthy growth, with which we are consolidating a strengthened state of well-being, as I have had occasion to expose throughout today; prioritising public health, education and social services, with more than 1.2 billion euros in the last five years. With a very important boost from the investment. The last two budgets, above all, we were able to combine the reinforcement of social spending with a strong investment commitment, with the aim that Galicia continue to lead nationally the investor effort. I think we're dealing with the end of this decade with practically achieved fiscal consolidation, which leads us to leave almost without re-debtedness, and to what we have to add a matter of great importance: that we are still the autonomous administration that best pays their obligations to their suppliers throughout Spain. And in contrast to the models he cited, for the Greek Government it is irrevocable to continue to maintain our tax policy, which is based on lower taxes when we can, and, in any case, avoid them rising. This is the main reason for the rejection of taxes that each one of you made. We're convinced that it's good for the Greeks and the Greeks that the vast majority don't pay for the inheritance tax; that most of us, who have the average and low incomes, who in Galicia are the common ones, pay less IRPF. And there's zero taxes in rural. And in front of the sub-groups of the opposition, we want to continue deploying selective reductions. So for next year, we lower taxes for people who buy a housing for their usual use; we lower taxes on those who invest in technology-based companies or make grants in the field of R & D+i; and we lower taxes on those who inherit a brother. Faced with this, the opposition groups at the same time propose amendments ranging from 200 million to 150 million euros in tax reliefs. I insist, we cannot support the fact that In Marea, the PSdG and the BNG want to raise their taxes, and in that amount, to the Greeks and to the Greeks. I hope that despite the discrepancies in the general model of budgetary policy, parliamentary groups will continue to work towards, if there is agreement, incorporating the possible improvements into the final text. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the first autonomous administration to deal with the 2019 budgets in Parliament, so I hope that they will be approved next December, to further promote this economic and social growth with better services for people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u106	Thank you, Counselor. Vote for Group II amendments Vote for amendments amending the overall budget content or transferring appropriations between sections
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u107	We passed on to the vote on Group II amendments. Close the doors, please. We voted on amendments that modify the overall budget account, and now I ask the lawyer, can we also vote together on amendments that transfer credits between sections, separating them from groups? Could we do it like that? Well, let's do it. [[Assentment.]] [[Murmurs.]] So we voted, firstly, specifying the two that I said, both those that modify the global accounts of budgets and those that transfer credits between sections. We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 and 33 to 40 (Doc. # Amendment No 39903), which amends the overall content of budgets, and Amendments Nos 1 to 33 (Doc. # 39903), which transfer credits between sections, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u108	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Amendment No 1 (Doc. # Amendment No 39849) amending the overall budget content and Amendment No 1 (Doc. # 39849), which transfers appropriations between sections, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u109	Finally, we are voting on amendments from the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Amendment No 1 (Doc. # Amendment No 39816) amending the overall budget content and Amendment No 1 (Doc. # 39816), which transfers appropriations between sections, of the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u110	Therefore, the amendments to the whole and the overall accounts of expenditure and revenue statements are rejected, and this bill is transferred to Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, in order to continue its processing, in accordance with Article 114(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. This closes the debate on the German Autonomous Community Budget Bill of 20198. But it's not enough because we still have a second point. Full discussion of the draft law on tax and administrative measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u111	I'm going to communicate, first, a change of order of day to the new plenary we're going to have tomorrow, so your lordships will know. I've already spoken to the spokespersons. Tomorrow afternoon, I was planning to discuss six non-law proposals, but we're only going to discuss four. The last two will stay for Wednesday, because the Economic Counsellor has an agenda problem and so we make it easier for them to discuss their queries and their questions. As this is already spoken and there is agreement, it is a transfer to all groups. Now yes, we move on to the second point. For the presentation of the bill, the councillor of Fairy has the word for word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u112	Thank you again, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I am speaking in this plenary to present the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures for 2019, a rule that complements the Bill of Budgets for this exercise, also currently in parliamentary processing, on what we have just had a broad debate. The aim of this rule is the usual, to achieve greater efficiency and efficiency with a set of measures relating to different areas of activity which, with a vocation of permanence over time, contribute to the achievement of certain objectives of multi-annual guidance, pursued by the Autonomous Community through budgetary execution. In this respect, I remind you again that the doctrine of the Constitutional Court sets out different measures, executives and regulations, which by their nature must adopt a rank of law and which must not be incorporated into the annual laws of budgets, but into specific rules such as those presented today. In addition, I would like to reiterate that the doctrinal debate on the nature of so-called accompaniment laws was resolved by the Supreme Court. The high court has set up these kinds of rules as ordinary laws, whose contents are fully protected by the freedom of configuration enjoyed by the legislator, which allow for a better and more effective execution of the Government program in the various areas in which it develops its action. Among the measures included in this bill, I would like to highlight those that intend to implement four new tax reductions; improve the working and conciliation conditions of public employees; include the reduction of the Sogama cannon to 10% of the municipalities certifying their commitment to the reduction of waste and the promotion of selective collection, as well as the transfer of that downgrade to the neighbours of the municipality. Allow reconstruction of buildings affected by disasters that are declared emergency. Avoid the risks arising from the state of abandonment of forest parcels. Compatible access to Risk to those people who are working but have low incomes. Prioritise business initiatives that are dealt with in a priority and urgent manner. Or guarantee the perfect preservation and maintenance of Santiago's Way. As for the structure of the law, it is divided into two titles: the first for tax measures and the second for administrative measures. Title I, concerning tax measures, is divided into two chapters. The first is to introduce measures in respect of assigned taxes; and in respect of income tax for natural persons, several changes are made to the deductions of the full autonomous quota to achieve three objectives: to encourage investment, job creation and investment in R & D+i. Thus, in line with one of the major challenges of the strategic plan — the commitment to innovation — participation and investment in innovative pemes and technologically-based business initiatives, as well as research grants. To that end, percentages and reduction limits in IRPF are increased. On the other hand, two new deductions are collected to implement the measures adopted by Decree 55/2018 of 31 May 2018 of urgent measures for the repair of damage caused by the explosion of pyrotechnic material produced in Tui on 23 May 2018. The aim is to ensure that the beneficiaries of the latter are exempt from taxation. With respect to inheritance tax and donations, we double the reduction per parentage in the case that the brothers are heirs, going from 8,000 to 16,000 euros, with the aim of relieving the tax burden, in line with the already started in 2016 with direct descendants and ascendants. This measure benefits all of these inheritances, and assumes that six out of every ten brothers are exempt from paying for this tax and that Galicia is among the less taxed communities for this kind of inheritance. We believe that this decline will benefit more than 4,000 people. In the property tax, we modified the current scale to reverse the agreed rise in 2013, in a recession context, to return to the starting situation before the economic crisis. In this way, we resume the current current rate in the state. As far as property transmission and documented legal acts are concerned, the objective is to continue to promote constitutional right of access to housing. To that end, we decided to reduce the tax rate to acquire habitual housing, with a heritage limit for certain groups. We lower this tax by 25% for people under 36 years of age, large families and people with disabilities, who will pay 4% to 3%. In this way, in Galicia we stand as the autonomous community of Spain where fewer taxes will pay these collectives. In addition, we also lower by 12.5% the taxes that will pay those Greeks who buy a housing used to be habitual residence, and with a heritage limit, which will pay from 8% to 7% of the estate tax. We believe that this measure will benefit 10,000 Greek families each year. And finally, we leave out of content the regulation of the autonomous type of hydrocarbon tax, having integrated with the state type under Law 6/2018, of July 3, of general state budgets for 2018, which they know will be effective from the first of January 2019. Chapter II, relating to own taxes, consists of a single charge on charges, which provides for updating, on the one hand, the rates of fixed content rates and, on the other hand, for introducing several amendments to the Act 6/2002 of 9 December 2002 on rates, prices and regulatory burdens of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why it refers to tax measures. As regards Title II, concerning administrative measures, we have introduced amendments to Law 2/2015 of 29 April 2015 on public employment in Galicia. We included the resumption of 100 percent of public employees' wages in case of temporary disability. We have introduced amendments to make possible the implementation of the professional career of the staff member of the Board in accordance with the proposal that we have been negotiating since July, and that we intend to culminate shortly with the union partners. We expanded in two weeks — from 22 to 24 — with preparations, the duration of the permit by birth, adoption or reception, as a favourable measure of the reconciliation of personal, family and work life, and in this way we placed Galicia at the head of Spain in the accumulated duration of the permit by maternity. Measures are also approved to promote the anonymity and mobility of victims of gender-based violence in oppositions and recruitment lists, as well as a complement to officials victims of gender-based violence who have to move to the other Administration. And we implement the second activity to forest and environmental agents following the agreement reached with trade union organizations in the framework of social dialogue. As far as the environment and territory are concerned, we have included the reduction of the Sogama canon in 10% of the municipalities certifying their commitment to waste reduction and the promotion of selective collection, as well as the transfer of this canon to the neighbours of each municipality. We introduced an additional provision in the Galician Soil Law to allow the reconstruction of buildings affected by disasters that are declared emergency, such as the case of the Tui pyrotechnic. In terms of infrastructure and mobility, we included two amendments to the Galician Road Law. On the one hand, we have amended Article 47.2 to enable the municipalities to authorize certain actions in public areas of the roads. On the other hand, we have modified Article 41 to make the line of building limits more flexible. One of the functions of the construction line is to ensure greater safety to traffic and distance road buildings. On roads belonging to the local network, it is not considered necessary to separate the buildings fifteen meters, being sufficient with seven. We believe that it is consistent with the territorial reality of Galicia and with a network, that the regulations are expected to generate according to their functionality. In addition, it foresees changes in two other laws. We have modified several articles of the Galician Water Law to match the sanctioning regime to those provided for in the General Tax Law, and includes a 30% bonus on the amount of the penalty in case of compliance. The Law of fees is amended so that long-term unemployed persons are exempt from registering and paying for vocational training tests related to transport. In the case of the sea, the rules governing the composition and operation of the Galician Harbours Board are laid down by a transitional nature; and a procedure initiated by the Administration is also regulated to extend the concessions of bats. With this measure, the administrator is exempt from the obligation to submit the application so that such extension can be materialised, with the weight, of course, in the Administration. In the field of the rural environment, we have included several regulatory amendments. We have amended the Law of neighboring mountains in common, in order to introduce a regulation of the lease of them which guarantees their profitable exploitation. It includes changes in the Forest Fire Prevention and Defence Act, with measures such as the possibility of declaring as high-risk fire perimeters the places where the state of abandonment represents a high risk of fire spread. The declaration of utility of the infrastructures and preventive equipment linked to the fight against fires. The possibility of developing and approving municipal plans for forest fire prevention and defence by areas, and, in general, the introduction of biomass management and fire monitoring and detection. In this area, the Land Mobility Act is also amended in the article regulating the subrogation into the Land Bank transfer contract. Measures are adopted in the Mountain Law to avoid the risks arising from the state of abandonment of forest plots, such as to facilitate existing limitations for forest change after fires in cases where there are grounds of public interest arising from the sustainable management and management needs of the territory, ensure the maintenance of leafy masses and encourage their sustainable use and establish limitations on the use of certain forest species. Improve the regulation of the administrative regime of use in order to make it more functional. To extend the time limits within which a forest management or management instrument will be required, respecting the maximum time limits laid down in the State standard, and to simplify the application of the minimum distance scheme. Finally, it amends the Law of improvement of agricultural territorial structure, Metaga, to collect a new precept in order to provide for the negative meaning of silence; add a number for a gradual update of the existing common-hand vehicle boundaries; introduce the possibility of a reasoned exception of the proportion of deductions for rural infrastructures and for technical adjustments generally provided for in Article 31 (2) and (3), in order to be able to take into account the specific characteristics and circumstances of the land; modify Article 38 to regulate the effects of firm partial restructuring agreements on urban planning; and Article 40, to unify the treatment given to the common rural core soils and to those of a traditional historical nature, for their inclusion in the partial restructuring process in order to axillize that process. In the area of social policy, the aspects set out in the Act of Social Inclusion are clarified and confirmed to achieve the assessment of the situation or risk of social exclusion. In this way, it opens up the possibility that those people who are working, but have low incomes, can access the Risk, by perceiving the difference between their salary and the content of the Risk that would correspond to them to perceive according to the regulated law, as long as they meet the rest of the established requirements. New services are also incorporated into the social services portfolio for the promotion of personal autonomy and attention to dependent persons, and the user participation system is determined to finance their cost. In this way, coverage is given to the implantation of psychogeriatric units within the homes of older people, with the objective of providing specialized and appropriate care to those people with dementia or psychiatric disorders. With regard to the incorporation of supervisory services and timely support, and more specifically cohousing, it is intended to provide assistance to those older who enjoy autonomy but need timely support or supervision for certain day-to-day tasks. In the field of economic, employment and industry, a new title is introduced in the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Initiatives in Galicia which regulates priority business initiatives, those which achieve added value in certain areas, and these will be processed in a priority and urgent manner. The processing of procedures to regulate mine rights competitions is also improved as amended by the Mining Management Act. As far as trade is concerned, the Greek Register of Commerce is deleted, to deepen the principle of administrative simplification and the elimination of burdens for administrations. In the field of culture and tourism, it established in the Tourism Act the exclusive competence of the Union for the promotion and signage of the Ways of Santiago, as well as for its conservation and maintenance, in collaboration with the other public administrations. The goal is to ensure the perfect conservation and maintenance of the main tourist resource in our community. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to finish, and I reiterate that the main measures included in this bill are intended to implement four new tax reductions. Improving the working and conciliation conditions of public employees; including the reduction of Sogama canon by 10% to the municipalities that certify their commitment to waste reduction and the promotion of selective collection, and that they transfer so-called lower to the neighbours of the municipality; allowing the reconstruction of buildings affected by disasters that are declared emergency; avoiding the risks arising from the state of abandonment of forest plots; compatibility of access to Risk to those people who are working but have low incomes; prioritising priority business initiatives, so that they are processed in a priority and urgent manner; or ensuring the perfect conservation and maintenance of Santiago's Ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u113	Thank you, Counselor. Round of defense of amendments to the whole. Positioning also with respect to the bill. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u114	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I, I'm sorry, as well as the beginning, but when someone has to be justifying the legality of a practice to open the debate, I think he says a lot about the instrument we're talking about today. They also do this in the explanatory statement of the bill itself. But I also tell you, so at the entrance, that not by repeating the use ceases to be a subterfuge, a legal back door. You said that and you also ratified it on several occasions in that explanatory statement. Legally, according to the Constitutional Court, yes, more opaque and very little democratic. And we say from the BNG that this sub-refugee, this back door, which is the Budget Accompanying Law, is very little democratic, because by this way they are modified -- and this is also something reiterated since 2009 in this House -- this year twenty-four laws of one blow; twenty-four laws and a good set of decrees, of course, without any previous reports and with a debate of fully accelerated parliamentary processing. The debate is held for the whole of this accompanying law in forty minutes; in forty minutes of intervention per group. Twenty-four legislative reforms are ventilated, reformed, in just over half an hour. These are, from the BNG's point of view, sufficient reasons to reject this bill, this mechanism — I insist — this sub-refugee, this back door. But let's also go to the concrete, go to the content. In the administrative measures, which are one of the most important parts of this Accompanying Law, you introduce absolutely heterogeneous changes, totally disparate, within the regulatory framework, into the legal order. Twenty-four laws, I insist. They change from the Sports Act to the Tourism Act, through the Business Implementation Act, or even reforms introduced into the 2017 Budget Accompanying Act. Reformed or reformed! And you said now that this kind of instrument, or this kind of mechanism, had a vocation of permanence in time. The improvisation — and I will now tell you some of the changes — of whom — as we have heard throughout the morning — comes here as an adalid of rigour! Changes which, through the urgency with which this text has to be dealt with, make it impossible for a peaceful debate, a debate with the amplitude necessary to favour the arrivals of parliamentary groups, but, above all, also of the affected sectors, which is a violation of the spirit of democratic participation which must characterize any public action, but above all the action of any government, and which, in addition to most of them, constitute improvisations which do not provide for concrete solutions, and much less appropriate to the reality of our country. The most palpable test of this we have this year. I believe that this year we have the most tangible proof of this improvisation, of that government by impulses or those reforms by impulses that we spoke about and denounced since the BNG in the debate in 2016. This year we have the most tangible proof of one of the reforms introduced in this Accompanying Bill, in the additional provisions, with which they intended to create the figure of the area pediatrician. They had to correct themselves and amend themselves, and now, with 50 and one amendment that the Popular Parliamentary Group is presenting to this draft accompaniment law, they come to give it a twister turn. An occurrence without debate with the public health professionals who come to this House after reforming, modifying, the Health Act is less than a year ago! In Galicia there is a problem with the lack of pediatricians, that is obvious, and that has been reported, among others, by the Nationalist Block Galego in this House on repeated occasions. And the great idea that the People's Party has is to suppress the figure of pediatrics in primary care. The next day — the press release! — of the occurrence of the People's Party, Galician pediatric organizations rejected the proposal, of course, for the risk — they said at that time — that it means for our country's public health care system. But in addition — and in a very harsh public statement — they denounced the opacity and lack of transparency with which she was acting at Galician Union. This is the best example of what is the nature of the law of accompaniment and its use — I insist, I repeat, but not because of it more democratic — the People's Party every year, every budgetary debate, since 2009. They're both good enough to try to extinguish pediatrics in primary care and to change Galician Land Law for the last time. The Galician Land Law, adopted in 2016, has already brought more reforms than years into force. It was approved in 2016 — I insist — it was modified in the 2017 budgets, in the 2018 budgets, in the Business Implementation Act, and now again in the accompanying Law for the 2019 fiscal year. It's absolutely improvisation, and a government and a reform of the legal framework by impulse, with occurrences that have to go your own way one year after another. This year it is necessary to point out — in respect of this reform that introduces in this Law the gravity of the proposal, because it introduces a new regulation of very important silence and you try to bring it up here without any kind of ESC report, or any kind of public exhibition, beyond the accelerated processing of the Act of budgetary accompaniment. They introduce a new regulation of extremely important silence, relating to the execution of expropriation systems, using as a formula the urgent processing of the budgetary accompaniment law, without any justification, if it is not — I insist — the reports that must accompany the ordinary legislative procedure, as well as denying the possibility of participation of local authorities, which have — and many — competences in this regard. The new regulation that proposes enables a direct public execution system to be managed indirectly by private third parties, which means denaturalizing this system through new forms of competition management to resemble it to an indirect system, when it should be — and so we defend it from the BNG — the Administration that acts directly and not through intermediaries. What's behind this? Because every day we have greater conviction that accidents don't exist, and coming from you even less. What is behind this reform of the Land Law — enessimo — that introduce this amendment of the Accompanying Law? The attempt to seek legalize a new urban stop, a ballazo — and never better said! — this time in the municipality of Mos, with the sole objective of giving private companies the ability to expropriate land to build a sports complex attached to a large shopping centre. Thus, it is sought in a premeditated manner that speculative foreign capital can perform an operation in Vigo and its area of influence that you disguise as public utility. But we're not talking about expropriation to build a hospital, to build a debugger, a institute or a senior residence. No, we're talking about building a mega-sport project linked to a speculative foreign capital. First the project is announced, an agreement is signed with the Council of Mos, and now it is set to walk all the administrative machinery, by the fast way, to make it come true. In addition, the People's Party advances in this Law of accompaniment in the roadmap, and in an absolutely scandalous way. You were talking about it now. You from the economy know much—the first English lesson, Mr. Valeriano, I don't know if it was so clear—but they include reparations—it's a joke, which I see you coming today in a relaxed tone—in services that aren't even real yet. [[Laughter]] This is the case with supervision services and timely support in social policy, cohousing, and psychogeriatric units. They return to reform, among other things, those twenty-four laws: the Mining Law, the Fire Prevention Act, the Law of neighboring Mountains in Common Hand, the Fisheries Law, texts that are subject to modification year after year. We just have to go back to the accompanying laws of the budgetary processes, or the budgetary processing processes, which we take in this legislation. In each and every of the accompanying laws of those 2017, 2018 and now in the 2019 exercise, they come back over and over again on those texts, which has nothing to do with that supposed efficient and effective execution of public accounts. They denaturalize absolutely, if you have any reason to be these kind of legal mechanisms, to try to find a sub-refugee, a back door and a quick way to deny the social debate, and also, to some extent, the political and institutional debate, around enormous silence reforms that have a lot of transcendence to our country. And -- I told you at first, too -- they're introducing changes to texts that have only been in force for a year. There's that new chapter that they propose for the Business Implementation Act or the amendment of the Animal Welfare Act, which was adopted just a year ago. A revolutionary world, a basket of tailors, a completely legislating valley, reflected by little prediction or by little prospect or horizon in the medium and long term with which they work at the Galician Union; the purest improvisation. And, in addition, it is the reflection of the constant alterations that the People's Party has to carry out in the laws that you yourself design and approve, precisely because of this lack of dialogue many times with the social sectors. With regard to the tax measures that make up that first part of the Accompanying Law, with regard to that first part of the bill on tax measures, we see that they sink — it is something that my colleagues have already pointed out, both Mrs Presas and Mrs Pontón — in a tax policy of a regressive nature. In this way, we do not find in that proposal, in that draft accompaniment law, measures that advance towards the other conception of taxation, by betting on the principles of progressiveness and equity that, from our point of view — for BNG — are the main axes of the tax system that allow, in addition, to meet that fundamental function that they fulfil, as is that redistributive function. In addition, there are no alternative changes to compensate — as in the case, for example, for this reduction in wealth tax — or to offset this reduction in the collection — approximately their valuations are at least 12 million. The money from public administrations is not born of oak — in this case, in San Caetano — but comes from this very function of redistribution of wealth that tax systems have. In addition, one year more — the redundancy — no proposal is envisaged for, within these limited competences of our country, setting up a fairer tax system. We have the clear proposal, it is explained by my comrades and, in addition, we also collect it in our amendments to this bill. We understand that, within this limited framework, there is the ability to move forward in a more redistributive model, which provides the administration itself and the Greek Government with the resources that we need to shield fundamental elements of the welfare system, such as health and education, but also to move this country towards a completely different productive and economic model, but which also enables us to face the challenges we have in the present and, above all, in the future. We — and I am done with this — absolutely reject this bill. We do so, above all, because of the nature of the Act itself of accompaniment and the use which the People's Party makes — absolutely abusive — of this mechanism, which should simply have an exceptional character in order to be able to introduce the legal changes which are strictly necessary to effectively and efficiently implement or execute the resources. All other reforms must go through an ordinary legislative process that allows the debate not only by the political forces represented in this chamber, but, above all, by the collectives affected by the reform of these — I insist — twenty-four laws that will be ventilated in just over half an hour. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselors, Counselor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are debating the entire draft law on fiscal and administrative measures — known as the Accompaniment Act — a law that the Council of Galicia brings us together with the draft law on budgets, as if it were a more integral volume of the budgets of the Council of Galicia. Mr Counsellor, we socialists again refuse, a year later, this usual practice of the People's Party's governments; a legal practice — yes, legal — but strongly discouraged by the prevailing legislative doctrine. [[Applause]] And it's the first justification you make for the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures. Look, Counselor, today I'm going to tell you a historical novel based on real facts. The title of this novel is None is what it seems; the place is a European region called Galicia; the time is the 21st century – year 2018 – and the historical reference is that Galicia has been ruled or ruled for more than thirty years by the People's Party and, in the last nine, with an absolute unbroken majority of Mr. Núñez Feijóo. The historical fact of the development of this plot in which nothing seems to be the processing of the Tax and Administrative Measures Act of the Autonomous Community of Greece by 2019, law that, as I have just said, seems to convince us that it is inextricably linked to the Budget Act. But the reality is that with this law they intend to modify by the back door thirty-five laws, twenty-three of these thirty-five laws promoted by President Feijóo's own government in these nine years of uninterrupted government. Nine years in which 168 amendments to laws have been made to this procedure and 560 specific policy questions have been amended. The People's Party, the Feijóo Government, when it presents its laws, does so with a lot of publicity and propaganda. They announce these laws to be the solution to the problem they're trying to deal with, but they soon cease to be panacea and they have to be self-amended all the time. Look, some of them on thirty-seven occasions have been changed. [[Applause]] Counsellor, the Government of Feijó wants to convince us that the process of this law does not diminish transparency or democratic debate. But the reality is, in the processing of this Law of Measures for 2019, there are, once again, a series of precepts that have no connection to each other. A handling of the urgency procedure, that is, to the detriment of political and legal quality; a processing that steals the parliamentary debate for each of the issues to be addressed; a processing that goes against the principle of transparency, without publicity and without public exposure; a processing that prevents the arrivals and negotiations with the sectors concerned; a processing without the specific reports of each of the councils concerned; a processing without the prescription of the ESC, which you release in two lines expressing an opinion which is not necessary, and a processing without reports from the local authorities, which in some of the precepts are directly affected. [[Applause]] That is, a Government which, with its absolute majority, despises the work of the opposition; a Government of advertising and propaganda; a Government in which nothing is what it seems. Mr Counsellor, do you really think that this way of acting corresponds to the commitment that you have to have a 21st century government, transparency and good government? Counselor, the Government of Feijó tries to convince us that tax cuts are an important saving for most of the Greek citizenship. But the reality is that the economic valuation itself of the tax measures presented by the Government itself tells us that the collection cost — i.e. savings in the IRPF — is EUR 440,000, but the increase in the collection is 6.4%. It also tells us that the tax on inheritances and donations is worth two million euros, but the increase in collection is 11.6%. And in view of these benefits of EUR 2 billion, we have to stop raising the public estate tax by about EUR 12 million; a property tax which affects only 0.25% of the population and with an average net quota of EUR 10 000. I mean, a government that says it meets people's needs, but the reality is that it's a government that applies a regression tax policy, that is, it favors those who have the most. [[Applause]] Counsellor, the Feijóo Government also tells us, or it seems, that it applies a fall in the tax on property transmissions for housing used, but the reality is that the government itself values an increase in the collection of 13.3% in this tax. And why? Because in 2013 the Government of Feijóo made the general tax rate ranged from seven to ten percent; for taxpayers with less than two hundred thousand euros, from seven to eight percent; for disabled persons, large families and under thirty-six years of age with an estate of less than two hundred thousand euros, to one four percent, and in legal and documented acts, from one to 1.5%. What's up in 2019? That the same Government Feijóo the general leaves it equal, in ten percent — three percent more —; the assets of less than two hundred thousand euros return to that seven percent, and for the disabled, the numerous families and the under - six-year-olds with a heritage of less than two hundred thousand euros, three percent. That's right, isn't it, Counselor? Good. Well, Counselor, they also seem to set a 10 percent drop in the Sogama canon; you estimate it at five million six hundred thousand euros, according to the government's own assessment. But we have to go back: the reality is that the Government Feijóo, in 2014, unilaterally applied an increase of 34% — 34%!—. Besides, they didn't have an obligation to transfer him to citizenship. At that time, it was the municipalities that — one of two — or they would transfer the receipts to the citizenry so they would get angry with the municipalities — because it was a council fee — or they assumed it with their own resources, to the detriment of their own budgets. Is that true? But now, at the moment that there's no climb, there's a downside, what they do is, we're going down about 10 percent, that's right, under conditions for the municipalities, and they also have to transfer it necessarily to the citizens' rate receipts. Yes, Counselor, it's not very logical that in one case the Town Councils take it and in another case they have to move it to sell to them that you're the ones who practice the discount. Just advertising and propaganda. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] By the way, Counselor, if they're also in those downsides... what do you want, answer me, Counselor? If you want and if you let him, I don't have any problems. [[Balbordo.]] By the way, Sogama presents positive results: for 2016, of EUR 9.5 million, and for 2017, of EUR 12 million. Since they're going to come down to him and favor all citizenship — which is not the case, but if that's the case — why don't you get down this same count? That is how we stand before the benefits, and move to the whole citizenship in general. They could apply it up to twenty-two percent down on the receipts of the garbage collection. You see, Counselor, how much does it look in your world? [[Applause]] As for administrative measures, in the case of public employment: Mr Counsellor, as you well know, public employment and the working conditions of employees and public employees suffered from the cutting policies of Mr. Mariano Rajoy and, in addition, suffered the cuts of the Government Feijóo during the years of the crisis. And now you — the Feijóo Government — want to make us believe that they favor the recovery of the working conditions lost by public employees, but the reality is that they are again presenting a general amendment to Galicia's Public Employment Act by the back door; a law that was passed in 2015 and that has thirty-seven changes, fourteen only in this Law of Measures. And so, in this way, they hijacked the necessary prior collective bargaining and prevented the necessary ordinary legislative debate. Don't laugh, Counselor. The reality is that you approve a law in 2012 calling "temporary public employment measures", and these temporary measures continue to be temporary six years later, with the exception of this inescapable law in order to regain the working conditions of all self-employment. Counsellor, the Government of Feijóo proposes that the transfer contests of general government officials and career forecasts be dispersed in each council to make a resolution to the letter. Counsellor, the reality is that you are not applying the measures contained in the Second Agreement for the Improvement of Public Employment, signed by the Central Government and the trade union organisations on 9 March 2018, in the field of daily affairs and conciliation needs — of course, signed by the Minister of the People's Party, Mr Montoro. Counsellor, in the budgetary regime, you say that the Government is talking about improving the budgetary process in the management of budgetary modification files. But the reality is that, during this year, you have made budgetary changes of the global amount of EUR 50 million; that is, 10 percent of the budget of the Galician Union has been modified, thus distorting the initial commitment to the adoption of budgets. Budgetedly, year after year, various games that never run, and there are games in which the execution percentages are, year after year, very, very, very, very improved, not to say very, very weak. With intent it is not enough, Counselor, it is not enough; by putting it in budgets it is not enough. So, what you now want with these changes is to reduce the amount of budgetary changes by changing their name; that is, more obscurantism so that nothing will continue to be as it seems in Mr. Feijó's Government. In health care, Counsellor, the Government of Feijóo tries to make us believe that with the creation, through the back door, of the area pediatric staff organizes a coordinated and comprehensive health system, ensuring an interrelationship between the different levels of care and adapting to the principles of efficiency, speed, economy and flexibility. But the reality is that you are constantly looking for formulas to cut out the Pediatric Service in public health, as evidenced by the various debates that have been made in this chamber by the dismantling of the Pediatric Service in almost all the Greek municipalities, essentially the most rural. I suppose it'll be one of the most measures for that "rural legislate." They wanted to implant this figure in hiding because they knew no one agreed. What happens is they had to put it behind them because your intentions came upon them; therefore, they left without effect this intention of the area Pediatrics. In social policy, Counsellor, the Government of Feijóo wants to make us believe that it properly serves the people who have the least resources, and the reality is that they chronicl one more year the forgetfulness of those who need it most. They've been promising seven new residences for nine years, one in each city, and they've still been intentions. By the way, they set up a cologne before the construction of these residences, quite curious. Depending on the demand increases the higher speed than the government's attention. At this point, we have about one hundred and twenty thousand people without caring; by the way, twenty-five thousand three hundred more than in 2011. Children's schools in industrial polygons: they're still intentions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u118	Yes, I'm done now, Mr. President. Social exclusion: more than one hundred thirty thousand Greeks and Greeks with severe lack of material, while a Government keeps a low risk, outraged, excessively bureaucratic and not reaching the people who need it. [[Applause]] The intention, Counselor, is not to respond to the most dramatic situations in our society, the most vulnerable people. Well, I'll be on my second shift. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Mr Sánchez García has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u120	Good afternoon, everyone. Here is a representative of the minority minority in Soto del Real. You too are a majority in Soto del Real, Mr. Tellado. Don't laugh. [[Applause]] Well, the compañeras have already explained — and they have burdened me with intervention — what the People's Party repeatedly does to do to do what is not intended for theory, even if it's legal. And I'm setting an example to complement that reasoning: the reform that was made in the Wind Sector Business Initiatives Act is comparable to the changes introduced in the development of a Land Law, but the difference was that the Land Law had an ordinary processing, had all the reports, had a participatory process and had a peaceful debate. The transformation of the wind sector, which should be so important for the dynamization of our country and our rural environment, went through the back door and, above all, today, in this accompanying law, it is again changed. Also, another of the characteristics is the little democratic and poor health it is for this country, but it is also the evidence of the continuing improvisation and lack of country project. There were several examples of this improvisation, lack of country project and lack of rigour. You were talking about the amendment to the Galician Road Law passed in 2013. All accompanying laws have introduced amendments to the Galician Road Law, and in the latter you say the distances are reduced on the local roads because the Greek reality makes it advisable. And then the reality of Galicia has changed from 2013 to 2018, Counselor? The obvious thing is that that law was badly done, and was made with little rigour by former councilman Augustine Hernández, who, by the way, accepted few of the amendments that the opposition did to him at that time. It is therefore a bill that reiterates these vices, which again introduces substantial changes in strategic sectors such as mining, such as the energy sector, such as forest or the Heritage Act, once again. It is also the proposal of a Welsh Government that is the example of politics that has unfortunately been governing us since 2009; a neoliberal project that does not provide solutions for the strategic sectors of this country and that seeks to facilitate only business opportunities for businesses in sectors that exploit our natural resources, generate little wealth and employment and escape the profits out of it. It is no coincidence that Galicia's relative weight loss with regard to the state, whether in population or in employment; it is no coincidence that rural people follow the path of desertification and aging; it is no coincidence that public policies for the dynamization of neighbouring mountains or a mountain that generates more employment and wealth in a more sustainable way; it is no coincidence, it is the result of their policies. The absence of a project is evident in the continuing legislative improvisation, as I have already said. So let's start with the measures proposed to us in these few fifteen minutes I have. First, the fiscal policy of the People's Party is always to reduce the public's weight, and in tune with that are their fiscal policies. You claim, Mr. Counsellor — and the People's Party — that is constantly taxing, but this policy mainly benefits the highest incomes. You'll explain to me later how you might compare charging taxes with illustrated despotism, if you charge taxes is the basis of a democracy, Counselor, and you said before that this was illustrated despotism. Well, it mainly benefits the high incomes. One example is the discount you make of the wealth tax. We've talked a lot, I'm just going to set an example: a liquidable base of EUR 10 million — nothing more and nothing less than EUR 10 million — saves with its reform thirty-eight thousand euros, and a liquidable base of a hundred sixty-seven thousand saves sixty-seven euros. Who favors this reform, Counsellor? I think the numbers are quite obvious. In the measures you announced for Tui's disaster, we also believe that this is the way to work, but we have introduced amendments to ensure that the 100 percent exemption from pyrotechnic explosion is effective, both for aid and for investment. As for administrative measures, we have already talked here about the last amendment of the Land Law. The law of 2002 was highly criticized because it was changed once a year on average, and Mrs Mato spoke of a law that would give stability to urbanism in this country. Well, in two and a half years, we've had four changes, and not a little quiet, and in addition, often contradictory to the approval of the Land Law. For example, this time a figure is introduced here which means the privatization of urban management and the expropriation process. Do you remember the Valencian urbanizing agent? Well, that's what you want to approve. The Valencian urbanizing agent is what is intended to approve here. I suppose also because of those incidents, but remember the results of this urban policy in Valencia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. What they want, through the back door, is to rescue something similar to what was in the Louga: the system of concession of work, which was eliminated after the appearance of the experts, which was removed in 2016 in the Law of the ground, and now wants to recover but worse, to privatize even the expropriatory system. It's not responsible for this kind of action. I don't know what they want with that measure, I'd like someone to explain to me what they want with that measure. What problems do Galician board managers face today to introduce privatization of the expropriation system? I mean, I want to know the motivations and they explain it to us, to see if we're convinced, but it's the urbanizing agent of Valencia. There are also changes in the Mountain Law, the Law of neighboring Mountains in common and the Law of Fire Prevention. Also, in one year, three amendments: in the Business Initiatives Act, last year's Accompanying Act and this Accompanying Law. In a year, three changes. Obviously, they don't have much thought about the measures that need our mountain. It is of particular relevance that allows, according to the Board of Trustees, the processing of land use change burned for reasons arising from the sustainable management and management needs of the territory. We believe that with such vague and generalist justification, one opens his hand for certain arbitrary decisions that we don't like. Because it makes sense when requalification is prevented or the change in use of burned lands, and that sense cannot be lost with such a vague definition. In other words, we are concerned that we are subject to such generic reasons that they can allow arbitrary use of that possibility. The criteria for the exchange of agricultural use to non-consensual forestry with the agricultural sector are also amended. And we are not against everything as the concrete change was, but I believe these changes in use must be consensual and dialogue with the agricultural sector within one of the most serious problems this country has, which is the constant loss of useful agricultural surface, which also derives from a food dependence in this country, which should be one of the priorities — to end it — of any government. Therefore, those changes have to be dialoged. In the cutting of wood, once again, supporting a low-value and low-rich forest model, the solution is to lower the demands. And, for example, it also changes the Heritage Act, shielding itself from the delay in the reports of Heritage, and instead of making the administration function efficiently and putting more human and technological resources into place so that the Heritage reports are done with sufficient diligence, what they do is modify the Heritage Law to lower the requirements. For example, you say: "Forest cuts that take place around the protection of declared cultural and catalogued goods, when no change in use is made, and which, according to forest legislation, are subject to authorisation, for the protection of the protected values under this law will require the issuance of a sectoral report from the competent cultural council that will be integrated into the procedure for granting forest authorisation." In other words, this is the protection of cultural heritage, including BICs, in forest authorisation; that's what this amendment means. And for us it's not the right way, the good way is to make an efficient administration that makes the reports of Heritage in the time it has to do them, diligently, and with the resources that have to be done. By the way, last year's Accompanying Law referred to the geothermal reference of heritage resources. How are those jobs? Because that would really make the work of the Heritage Technicians more exciting. Penalties are reduced to mining companies that do not fulfil their obligations to rehabilitate the natural spaces damaged by their activity. They have an option of lowering eighty percent of these sanctions, they say to encourage them to comply. It must be like today's publication of the DOG in which the Board imposes a penalty on the Leitosa company — the property of Cotino, brother of the People's Party who is involved in the Gürtel operation, which is already dissolved; that penalty will never be charged. A company that received six hundred and twenty-six thousand euros of help from this Galician board -- a favor more to the mining lobby than we've been used to. And I say, the time has come... in the mining sector and in the wind sector, you, with these measures, are recognizing that there was a need for an in-depth reform of the two sectors, and they had two options: doing it democratically, opening a debate in depth of two sectors where reality has changed the legislative necessity of having another type of law, or they can do it by the back door, on several occasions, suddenly and with constant changes. We believe that this, once again, is not the way. The way is to comply with the law. You, who talk so much about complying with the law: you both change the Mining Law, and you still don't approve a sectoral plan of extractive activities in Galicia that orders the mining sector. Look: Galicia's extractive business sector plan is configured as a sectoral plan of supra-municipal impact of the regulated in the Galician Land Management Act as the maximum instrument of mining policy planning, and you, after so many years in the Government, almost ten years in the Government, continue without adopting a sectoral plan of extractive activities. Well, Sogama, Counselor, Sogama: you lied when you went up 33.5 percent of the cannon, justifying the change, the rise, for the pay-for change of Mr. Soria's energy reform; it was a lie, we said it at that time. The reason was the pending failure — which ultimately failed against the Galician Board — for the reclassification of the thermoelectric plant, and it was the amortization of subordinated loans, i.e. loans from the company's own partners — that we had to pay with the rise of the cannon all the Greeks and the galleys — and the amortization of the project finance loan. This December 2018 win both Project Finance and subordinated loan; we're close. Sogama had sixteen million euros of profits before taxes, and you propose a 10 percent drop. Why don't you propose a drop to leave it at the level before the climb, which was for an electric pay issue that wasn't so? Why? What do you want, to continue giving benefits to Gas Natural Fenosa, Naturgy? Do you want to continue giving you benefits? Yes, because, if not, you don't understand. There is perfectly margin, as already said here, to make a descent that leaves the cannon at the height of what was before the ascent. And, by the way, Counsellor, it's good that you move the downside to the users, but you have to do it in dialogue, because there are municipalities whose waste collection and treatment service is defiant, right? and with those municipalities you have to talk to them about a solution. Well, they also amend the Predation Act, the Business Initiatives Promotion Act, and they put the figure of the priority company, which works in the innovation sectors, etc. (a lot of literature) which invests in assets at least two million euros. And we say, this is discriminatory, because these priority companies promise that the proceedings will be reduced to half. And why don't you have the right to have an agile processing of a Val do Dubra glove that you're asking for an improvement plan and that you want to be approved by the environmental statement in time because, if not, you lose the grant? Why don't you have the same right as a priority business initiative, which has to invest at least two million euros? Why don't you guys work on an agile and efficient administration for everyone and they don't treat certain initiatives? We want a system that works for everyone the same. With regard to the change in the issue of pediatrics: once again, without dialogue, improvising in the face of a situation that has come upon them because of lack of planning -- this summer the country has been set up with concentrations of people asking for pediatricians in its towns and villages that were not due to the lack of staff policy and the cuts of the People's Party -- they come and bring about an occurrence without dialogue with the sector. And, of course, now they have to change.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u122	The situations of shortage of specific staff are resolved by enabling ways to train and equip new professionals, increasing markets via MIR and taking care of the professionals who complete their training so that all the investment made results in an increase in quality in the care of their use, with good treatment policies for professionals, which affect users in the system. I don't have time to keep tearing down its measures of this Accompanying Law, but in short, it shows a government with little rigor, with the absence of a country project for sectors very important to Galicia and, in addition, a Government that governs also for certain interests, and obviously reflects on the legislation it promotes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Turn in favour and against amendments. The spokespersons of the non-am amendment groups are worded to set positions. By the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs Prado Del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u124	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, three reasons. I could give them more, but I'm going to give them three reasons to support the Law on Measures: first, less taxes, which will impact on the pockets of the Greeks and the Greeks, which will have more money in the pocket because they will pay less taxes; improvements in the field of social welfare, and protection of the environment — better management of the mountain, fire prevention and forest management — and also tightening the sanctioning regime for mining companies that fail to comply. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, an budget in Galicia, a Galician success, which meets because we have political stability in a context in which to talk about stability is to talk about science fiction. Realistic accounts against the accounts of your president's milkman, Mr. Sánchez. Look, I've already said that the law of measures is not the legal instrument that we like most, no, but one thing is that and another is that you have doubts about its legality. [[Laughter]] Mrs. Rodil would be surprised if legality was justified... Of course, it is necessary to justify it! [[Murmurs.]] Because if you read what they write, your amendments to the whole, as they question the legality of this law — even some group, like the Socialist Party, have focused solely on its amendment to the whole in the legality of the Law of Measures — because of course, the doctrine of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court must be brought here to say that it is an absolutely legal and legal regulation supported by the criterion of both courts. Of course, and it doesn't seem normal for the Socialist Party to give us the most kind of legislative technique, because the first thing is to be consistent, Mrs. Rodríguez. And, of course, to be consistent, the first thing to be consistent is in writing his amendment to the whole. Because you even speak of the ruling of the Constitutional Court 76/1992 on certain matters in the Budget Act, and even that judgment was the result of the misuse of the matters that were regulated in the Government Budget Act of Mr Felipe González of 1988. And you come to set a fair example of what you were doing wrong. Well, you know what's not democratic? What is not absolutely democratic and what doesn't work in democracy is to legislate the coup de cédre law. And do you know who was the ruler who most abused the decree, in addition to Mr. Pedro Sánchez? Mr. Primo de Rivera. And there was a change in the Second Republic to restrict it to the actual decree. Mr. Pedro Sánchez is now ruling the bill coup. But without any smell! [[Applause]] They even pretended to modify the Civil Code by decree, no less than a matter as sensitive as the determination of the homeland's power. That's a quality legislative technique. Look, the law decree you know perfectly well how it works; they came here to give us a class of transparency, debate, amendments... hey! Today we have a debate, the deadline for amendments is open, they have amendments to the whole, there is possibility; there have also been partial amendments. Mrs. Rodil, this doesn't end in twenty-four hours: today we vote the amendments in full and then we have the presentation; there are partial amendments, you have tabled partial amendments, right? I mean, we're not stealing that debate that you're so worried about. That's right, with the decree you do. Of course, not to mention the communities in which socialist lords govern, because of course, in Cantabria they have just presented the accompanying Law with the modification of twenty laws. Twenty. Then I don't know what the socialists have, what we do know is the speech they have in Valencia, where they modified thirty. Sure, what do they say in Valencia? I mean, they say, "Accompaniment law is an important legislative support for budgets to bring about social rights and civic decency." We're not going that far, Mrs. Rodríguez, I'm telling you. A law with direct measures to improve the lives of Valencians. Well, I believe that the law of measures in Wales also improves the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks, and if Valencian serves to improve the lives of the Valencians, I ask them not to hinder the improvement of the life of the Greeks and the Greeks. And besides, in this law we lower taxes, the difference in Valencian, where taxes rise. Because, of course, they've said it once, that raising taxes is left-handed. Well, since rising taxes is leftover, the People's Party has nothing left but lower taxes. And, of course, Mr. Counsellor has already told you, he has already explained to you the four tax discharges, and he has even told you the number of Greeks and Greeks who will be affected by these reductions in the tax of successions and donations and in the tax of documented heritage transmissions and legal acts. But, well, it seems to you that they are invisible and there are no children under the age of thirty-six, neither people with disabilities nor many families who will benefit from these tax cuts. There you are. They might think, like the tides of Podemos, that the Greeks are an ignorant and alienated people and that we make them believe they're lowering their taxes, but we don't actually drop them; but as they're fools they think they do, that we're lowering their taxes and they're not. You, ladies and gentlemen, may disagree with the policies of the Government, but it would be good if you had some choice. They say you have to raise taxes... then tell us what! You have to raise taxes to the rich, to the ones who have the most. Man, but where they rule, when they want to raise taxes to the rich, we take great surprises. For example, Mr. Sánchez took up the gas oil to the rich, to those who drive the delivery trucks, the vans... the same thing Mr. Martiño Noriega did; he came to Santiago and said: I'm going to raise the tax of more cylindrical mechanical traction vehicles, those that have the rich, the powerful. He has forgotten the self-sustainment vans that have difficulty reaching the end of the month. But perhaps the example of this tax policy for the rich: today we read in the press as the Minister of Economy, Nadia Calvin, in five years he entered two hundred forty-five thousand euros and paid five thousand euros of taxes. Of course, perhaps those that you support, Mr. Sánchez, in Madrid, those socialist ministers and ministers who buy their homes through instrumental societies or screen companies, same is the tax model for rich people you like. That's not our fiscal model. [[Applause]] Mrs. Rodil, you spoke here that the law of measures was done without debate, without listening to the collectives, and you set an example I think to be unlucky: you spoke of the law of animal welfare. It's precisely a change in the law of measures that says you have to have a license for dangerous animals not only the owner, but those who pass that animal. That law, as you know, has been debated, all the collectives have been heard, you too, and you haven't had a chance to introduce such an amendment. Why do you come here today? Because in the day-to-day application of the law it is revealed that it is necessary to make that change, and it is not a matter of not listening to the collectives, because they have been listened to. Neither has Mr. Sánchez been well aware of the data in the accounts, for in Soto del Real, Mr. Sánchez, for there are many more than United Left and trade unions for black cards that are of another political colour: eighty percent. You're going to go check out how many of yours are on the black cards. As for pediatricians, Mrs. Rodil, look: from the first day it was said that the reform was going to be coordinated with the sector. The sector has been heard, the sector has asked to withdraw and we have removed it. It's all right, don't worry, a reform of the system of coordinated, spoken and dialogueed pediatricians with the sector will come out. With regard to Tui, Mr. Sánchez, look: the neighboring platform knows perfectly that the Galician Union is the only administration it has ever been, it is and will be with the neighbors of Tui. The Board is the only administration that has met and listened to the platform, and the norm has been changed to comply with the requests of the neighbours. The board could be profiled as the Deputy of Pontevedra, but he didn't, he didn't appeal to his own and inappropriate powers. I know it bothers certain territories to say that the Union was the only one that heard the neighbours, because, among other things, this weekend I think they manifested themselves in front of the Government Sub-Delegation, and do not rule the People's Party in the State Government, gentlemen. Because the State Government already has three proposals for the wreckage. First they started that if an agreement -- it's not valid -- then a protocol -- it's not valid -- and now it's a management order. And you know, Mr Sánchez — you support the Government of Madrid — how much does the Government of the State offer to Tui? Fifty percent for the wreckage. Since you are negotiating budgets and going to jail to negotiate the issues of independence, it will be easier to ask the Government of the State to give 100 percent to Tui's neighbours for the wreckage of this fatal catastrophe. [[Applause]] Look, in rural areas, it's not improvisation, as you say. Legal standards are living texts and changes are due to the need to improve — if not, Mrs. Rodil, because this is a legal technique too — the management of the procedures contained therein, in addition to some changes produced by some state changes that have to be translated into autonomous changes. Today we are debating a law that includes fundamental issues to address this great challenge that we all have in Galicia, which is to put an end to forest fires, prevention and intervention. Of course, as you did not agree with the Commission's statement, because now they also criticize the measures introduced in this law: the axillization of the cutting procedures of pine trees and eucalyptus to avoid mixed masses through intercalated planting of pine trees and eucalyptus; improving the management of neighboring mountains in order to protect them from the risks of abandonment of the neighboring plots... do you think this is wrong? Say, really, do you think it's wrong? No, we have to wait for another wave of fires to solve it when we see another legislation. Look, Mr Sánchez: endure the conditions for the change from agricultural to forestry. Does that sound bad to you too? Do you think it's wrong? Because, of course, you come here just like Mrs. Rodil, who comes here saying that she introduces herself through the back door a compensation in social policy. Look, what you're introducing is two new services. And, of course, as you played the joke with the counselor, let me make you another joke. I'm no English expert, but, of course, it's cohousing, and you said here "cauhausing." The advisor would also say something else, but well, I think that teaching when we're not experts is not the right thing either. But, indeed, there are two new services. But these two new services, Mrs. Rodil, which are included in the legislation, do not include any cologne. I resist that right now you here tell me what is the article of the Law of Measures that establishes the co-owner in those tax policy services. Because you lie so blatantly, so brazenly... and you say in writing your amendment that it is scandalous that the People's Party includes a system of coke. No, Mrs. Rodil, there's no such thing. Two new services are set for the service wallet; no payroll, no payroll, no tripago. As for priority business initiatives, look, Mr Sánchez: as you come here and talk about rural areas -- some think that they are the only ones who can talk about language, others think that they are the only ones who can talk about rural -- I ask you to create a little more rural and you believe that rural initiatives can be declared priority initiatives. And you don't come here to put a specific case, a specific situation, of a gentleman who didn't present the documentation and therefore couldn't speed up the file in time. You talk like that. We are talking about maximizing administrative simplification for business initiatives that are qualified as priority. You make three criticisms: arbitrariness, discrimination and lowering demands or guarantees. None of the three are right, Mr. Sánchez, none of the three. It does not change for anything the enforceability of the ordinary deadlines, and the only objective that is intended is the maximization of administrative simplification. We believe that in rural areas there can be projects in the area of livestock that contribute to the transversal values set out in the legislation, such as innovation, competitiveness, internationalisation, equality in the labour field, reconciliation, employment generation, investment, etc. As for the mines: of course, you come here and make an unexpected reading of the law, you come here talking only about the regime sanctioning and controlling mining companies. But if we consider all the measures — because the opposition only highlights the possible reduction in the content of the penalty — what it means, ladies and gentlemen, is a much tougher regulation with companies that are involved in the mining issue: to determine who is responsible for mining activity and, when the company extinguishes the legal personality because it closes or breaks, that partners or responsible persons continue to have responsibility in fulfilling the obligations imposed by law on them. Look, about Sogama: Ladies and gentlemen, it's funny that the Socialist Party now says don't get down on the neighbors. Look: when it increased thirty-three percent, the lady councillor was mayor of Melide and took over thirty-three percent to the neighbors. What do we do now, don't we affect them? Where were you then? In the county where I was, they didn't have any effect on the neighbor's receipts? What's wrong? That when we get up, we take it up, but when we take it down, we don't take it down. Go and explain it to the neighbors. As for the new expropriation system, you come here and you went out in the press saying that this was a matter for a very specific project. To avoid any misunderstanding of you, the Popular Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to this article to simplify its wording. With this wording, what we do is simply put state legislation, which is currently in force in Galicia, so I hope that this will take away absolutely any hint of intent that we might have. I think this is absolutely clear of any doubt you might have on this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u125	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u126	I invite you to read the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group, because in no case was this amendment planned for any particular case. I think you, because you have a lot of things that you do around there -- they do things for your friends, like the Coruña apartments -- you think the others do the same thing. [[Balbordo.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u127	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u128	Of course, Vigo's people always want to have the protagonist. Don't worry, that you've done your job today so that the Emperor may congratulate you; no doubt, you don't need to stay here doing that performance, Mr. Abel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Replica of amending groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u130	Thank you, President. I told Mrs. Prado they didn't like this mechanism. He was very pleased with them because they use it every year. Every year more than twenty laws are reverberated by this route — I insist — which is a back door, because they are reformed by a feather twenty-four laws, which are ventilated in twenty minutes that we now have in this intervention at the plenary and twenty minutes that we will have the groups in the session at the committee. So, really, if someone thinks it's democratic to vent a reform of twenty-four laws of coup, with forty minutes of debate within these four walls, I'm sure we have an absolutely different vision than democracy in this country, which goes far beyond the debates we have within this chamber. [[Applause]] And Mrs. Prado told me I was making things up. For I shall read unto him the Law of accompaniment, which shall say, Article 29. Amendment to Decree 149/2013, and to paragraph II of Annex I to Decree 149/2013, of 5 September, so as to define the social services portfolio for the promotion of personal autonomy and care for dependent persons—here Mrs Prado has stopped reading, but continues—and to determine the system of participation of users in the financing of their costs, within the prevention services of situations...". [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] And three more services are created: the supervisory service and timely support, the cohousing and the psychogeriatric units. [[Balbordo.]] [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u131	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u132	It's also true that this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u133	Silence! Mrs. Prado, be quiet. Quiet, everybody.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u134	I'm reading, literally, what puts your reform bill on, and we'll see, when these new services are brought — which for the moment, we know, especially in relation to cohousing, are on someone's head, but not yet on paper — in which the story ends. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández shows you a document to the members of the House.]] [[Murmurs.]] Then there's another question: they have a conception of dialogue as proper as democracy. Because Mrs. Prado comes here to defend herself as a pediatrician. And, of course, when it becomes public, professional organizations, trade union organizations, the entire health community of our country, and even the opposition itself, which it finds itself—when it enters the door of the Horreo palace this reform proposal that includes the Accompanying Law—that you decide to create the area pediatrics, everyone mounts in anger, obviously, and there you decide to self-amend and retreat. And now, through the proposal of one of the amendments — of the fifty-one amendments tabled to this legislative text — the People's Party wants to go back because it has joined — and forgive the colloquial — it has gone off! And there was a little bit of a deal here because there's no talking to anyone, and he's trying to sneak through the back door the suppression of pediatrics in primary care and make a combination of care in primary health care centers and pediatric hospital care. They had to retreat because they took their hands to the head absolutely everyone. That's not a dialogue! Because if they fail to warn and alert the trade union organizations and the professional organizations of this country's pediatrics, you would go ahead, even if you were against the attention of users and one of the weakest parts of this country's health system, which are the children. And there will be time in the plenary that begins tomorrow to address this issue. [[Applause]] And just to finish, because we've been talking all day about taxes, tax systems, tax models... here comes Braveheart defending the popular classes, the working classes and the tax drop that the People's Party and the right. And you have to have a tough face to ask for explanations to the opposition about gas oil tax a political force that increased four times, multiplied by four the price of gas oil in our country. In a reform in 2013 it went from 1.2 cents per litre to 4.8 cents per litre. And somebody comes here asking for explanations to the opposition forces about the rise of taxes in an absolutely linear way to all incomes, because they record the highest and lowest. [[Applause]] Really! And as if that were little, they're now deciding that we're left with skills and that the recording of fuels can stay in the hands of the Spanish State, that Galliza has absolutely nothing to say in this matter. He spoke earlier — just a chas, because there's no more time — of the urbanizing agent of Valencia. The Town Hall of Mine, the People's Party in the Town Hall of Mine and the puppie that left the neighborhood of that municipality, precisely with that figure of the "urbanizing agent", which was the great dream of the sun and the beach in the Town Hall of Mine: a thousand hundred dwellings, a hotel, a golf course... and they're still paying the neighbors and neighbors the grandeur delusions of the People's Party. They tell us that we have to think about living tourism and not cows, they told the mayors and the Town Councils of the People's Party to the neighbors and neighbors. And I think it's a good synthesis of what economic policy and the future designed by the People's Party for this country is. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Socialist Group of Galicia, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u136	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Paula Prado, the truth is that the subconscious of you betrays her. He is still conscious, for he spoke ten minutes justifying the use of this Accompanying Law. Yes, the same as in the law itself, ten minutes! Back door! [[Applause]] He likes it or doesn't like it, by the back door they reform twenty-four laws, thirty-five if we take tax into account. Thirty-five laws, Mrs. Prado del Río! And besides, look, I'll tell you, put me the examples you want, but as Mr. Pérez Touriño ruled, he never used himself. Never! Do you understand? That's the difference. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Look, by the way, in Sogama's canon -- I'll explain it again -- it means that, when they increase it, the municipalities will do it if they want it and, if they don't, they will take it. That's the difference. And now, as they put it down, they say they lower it down to Join and they have to apply it to citizenship. They forget the autonomy of the municipalities over and over again. Forget it again and again! It seems to you that I'm the one who governs and decides which policies the municipalities have to implement. Yes, Mrs. Paula Prado del Río! And look, too, one more joke -- because we're here with "and you're worse." So look: it will be called cohousing — or as you wish — but the reality is that the housing policy of the Galician Union is reduced to the rating of nine — nine! — public promotion housing last year. That's a joke, that's a shame. [[Applause]] That's the way they have to help the most needy. Look, it's just that he won't give me time to talk about everything he had here, but, as we'll have a chance, we'll keep discussing it. I'm going to remind you that in the "rural legislation" we have 1,546 affiliates less in two years, we have four thousand employed less in one year. In nine years of Mr. Feijóo's government we lost more than ninety-five thousand people, and from between twenty-eight and nine years we lost more than two hundred thousand people. In the number of unemployed, Galicia is the community with the lowest decline of all: 5.03%, while in the state as a whole it is 19.30%. [[Applause]] In the occupations, Galicia has sixty thousand fewer occupations: one -5.16%, while in the state as a whole the occupied grew by 2.25% in the same period. In Galicia we have the lowest vegetative growth in all autonomous communities, and the conjunctural fertility indicator is in 1.12 children per woman. We have an aging index of 195.21, that is, for every 100 under sixteen years we have 195.21 greater than sixty-four years. Do you really think, Counselor, that with this data you can say that Galicia is the best place to be born? If the governments of the People's Party and the Government of Mr. Núñez Feijóo in Galicia these nine years were to use their funds to avoid demographic cleansing and dismantling of public services and to implement budgets in their entirety — fundamentally in employment policies — Galicia would be the best place to be born and to live, without a doubt. And all this would stop being fictitious to be a reality. Apply it, because we're waiting for it. Don't laugh, Counselor, I don't think it's a joke, it's irrefutable data. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u138	Well, since Mrs. Prado didn't have many arguments to defend the content of the law, she had to try to justify it with little conviction. He said: we don't like it, we don't like it; we'll have to, but we don't like it. No, they don't have to do it if they don't like it, they could do it differently. But, of course, it would have to be faced with more time and people could move, claim, protest and those things. You know they made the proposal for a sectoral plan for extractive activities below, the draft aquaculture law, etc. That's why they'd rather do it by the back door, that's why and not another one. And besides, of course, you, about coming here and having no arguments, says, "and you more." And he criticized — who sends a trick! — the current government of the state for ruling by decree law. Look, the headline: "The Rajoy Government beats the record of legislating by decree." [[Mr. Sánchez García shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Well, so far... August 21st... yes, yes, of course. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're a little bit more, yes, sir. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The others are a little worse. Well, and then, too, that you come to talk about corruption here, give us lessons of corruption... Home! In Soto del Real there was such Pablo Crespo, the Bigotes, Bárcenas, Granados, Ordinas, Ignacio González, the brother of Ignacio González, Correa, Blessa, Mouse, Damian Vidal, the mayors of Torrevieja, Valdemoro, Totana... they're playing the game there, they're playing the game for you. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And besides, "insulated cases" of corruption in the People's Party. All right! [[Murmurs.]] You talked about tax discharges: "Let's drop taxes to the Greeks." Some more than others, right? I told you, you can count as many milongs as you want. Its proposal causes a person with a net base of EUR 10 million to have to pay thirty-eight thousand less; with a liquid base of a hundred and seven thousand, sixty-seven euros less. Look at who the taxes come down to you. And he said, "It's the fiscal model we're defending." Your tax model is fiscal amnesty, right? To the poor, to those poor who refused to declare the millions, also many fellows of the People's Party — Mr. Bárcenas among them, Mr. Mouse among them, etc. — That's your fiscal model. Go to others with that milonga that tax came down here in the years that you ruled. You're lying! Falso! Ask the people, you'll see how not. Ask for IBI, for IVE, etc.; and also for the gas oil - the centime sanitaire, as already said -: 4.8 centimetres. And you came here to criticize what you did. Yes, I don't know if we remember the opposition when Rajoy ruled and wanted to approve the budgets. We had to stand here that the people of the People's Party had come and said, "Stop blocking the state budgets, because they are preventing the development of this country! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: support Pedro Sánchez! Support your budgets! Stop blocking the budgets, gentlemen of the People's Party! I really do!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u139	Quiet. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] We're already finishing up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's okay, everyone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's okay, Antonio. It's okay. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u140	It's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u141	Don't worry, it's not for you to go.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u142	I'm not going.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u143	Come on, let's finish now, come on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u144	I have the support of Mr. President for the first time in a long time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u145	No, you've had it on more than one occasion, neither have you now. Watch out!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u146	The Law of the Land, Mrs Prado; which says its proposal is very clear, see: "Expropriating administration may use, for the development of the activity of execution of the actions of the expropriation system, all direct and indirect management arrangements admitted by the legislation of the legal regime, the recruitment of public administrations, the local regime and territorial and urban management." E: "The condition as beneficiary of expropriation to natural or legal persons, so that they acquire the property of all the goods and rights included in the scope of action, above their fair price, and perform the urbanization works. In public tenders for this purpose, any natural or legal person interested in taking on the management of the proceedings, including the owners who are part of the relevant field, may submit tenders." [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Protests.]] That means... I know it's amended, that you've come to explain it. [[Balbordo.]] All right, all right! [[An honourable Member: It is already amended!]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u147	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u148	Well, how did they do this? How did it happen to them, ladies and gentlemen of the board, bring this here and what do you have to amend? It's a continuous circus! Four changes, and now, with the amendment of the People's Party, another amendment. Hurry up! A little bit of seriousness, a little bit of rigour. And that you don't notice them so much that they want to catch us up and keep her... well, I can't say that, I'm sorry. [[Murmurs.]] Well, priority business initiatives: you talked about simplifying administrative procedures. As far as I know, priority business initiatives are not restricted only to rural, it's not just a measure for rural, it can also be for rural. But it's a measure for those who can invest two million euros. And what I'm saying is, why are you just simplifying the procedures and reducing them to half those who can invest two million euros, and not many and many who are trying to get forward projects that are smaller but equally interesting or more? Why not? Why do you have the arbitrariness of being able to say who has an efficient administration and to whom the guarantees are lowered? Because if they go down: when the procedures are reduced to half, the guarantees are reduced.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u150	What we have to do is an administration for all the same. In social policy... I don't know if I've spent any time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u151	Man, one minute and I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u152	A minute and a minute. Well, I don't have time, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u153	Thank you. For another time, come on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party... on another occasion, yes, because you'll probably repeat this for the coming year. I mean, I'll repeat this. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u155	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Voting amendments to the draft law on tax and administrative measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u156	We must therefore vote. Close the doors, please. We are voting on amendments to the entire draft law on tax and administrative measures. We started by voting on the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Voting the amendment to the draft law on tax and administrative measures of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego (Doc. # 39804). The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u157	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting the amendment to the draft law on tax and administrative measures of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia (Doc. # 39866). The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u158	Finally, we voted on the amendment by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Voting the amendment to the draft law on tax and administrative measures of the G.P. of En Marea (Doc. # 39844). The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-19-DSPG091.u159	Nothing else. Finish the full here. Good night.
