ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. And we'll just go in on the agenda. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Pontón, why do you want the word? Request to modify the development of the agenda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u2	On a point of order based on Article 73.1, we can request a change in the agenda. As I am absolutely convinced that you know all your lords that this Sunday there was a mass demonstration, in which we were thousands of people claiming withdrawal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u3	I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u4	In order to explain the alteration!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u5	But listen. I've already understood it's a change in the agenda, but it needs more groups to ask for it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u6	But we can explain the reasons and then you, after you let the other spokespersons speak, can dilute whether or not the Rules of Procedure are complied with.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u7	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u8	Well, as stated at the outset, there was a mass demonstration in which it was requested not only the withdrawal of this law that promotes the Government, but also the establishment of a dialogue between all political forces and between all trade union forces and the public health sectors to deal with the deterioration that is taking place in health. It seems to us that after this mobilization it would be a gesture of goodwill that the People's Group had accepted the withdrawal of this law and the offer of sincere dialogue that is made, both from the political organizations and from the trade union organizations and from the different representatives of public health. And so what we're asking for is the withdrawal through an amendment of the agenda of this law, and that if we really stop putting public health sticks and we start defending people's right to health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Leicega?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u10	As the item on the agenda requires at least two parliamentary groups, because I shall briefly explain our position as well. Finally, we tabled an amendment to return, so then — if this withdrawal is not accepted — we are going to debate this and our position is going to be contrary to that by law. And we would therefore feel that the People's Group would serve this House and the country if in this context it were to withdraw the law and allow a debate between all parliamentary political forces to improve public health in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u11	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. [[Mr. Villares Naveira asks for the floor.]] Mr. Villares?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u12	Yes, in the same sense, in so far as the Rules of Procedure require three political groups, the three of us have reached this same agreement. We believe that on Sunday the social majority of this country showed a concrete political drive of a social character, which shows the need to reconsider by the Government, and by this House, the initiative that would be addressed here today. We therefore consider the withdrawal of that bill, with the idea — precisely — of giving the opportunity for dialogue between all political forces, the union forces and between the citizen organisations that were supporting an initiative on Sunday. That, on the other hand, would be similar to what has already happened on the part of the Government in the past legislation, when after presenting a proposal, which was specifically related at that time to the Aquaculture Law, was withdrawn. I mean, it didn't have to do with the total parliamentary majority, it had to do with the social majority. And we therefore consider that this time the majority of society are sending a clear message to the whole of this House to call for dialogue, and therefore to reconsider the treatment of this reform of Galician soil law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u13	Thank you, Mr. Villares. [[Mr. Puy Fraga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Puy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u14	Yes, Mr President, to position myself on the allusions made to the People's Group. And first of all, I would like to say that we happily live in a country in which Parliament is legislated and not the blow to tell protesters. Secondly, today we are actually opening a debate between the groups and a dialogue between the groups to which the People's Group is open to improve the content of the bill presented to us by the Government. And that, therefore, we are not going to accept a postponement, precisely, of this debate with guarantees in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u15	Thank you, Mr. Puy. In any case, the amendment of the agenda, in accordance with Article 73.1, we shall vote on it. We therefore vote on the proposal to amend the agenda. Close the doors, please. We voted for this change. Vote for change in agenda development. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This application is therefore rejected. Consequently, open the doors, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u16	Let us turn to the debate on the legislative text. Debates of the entire draft law amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u17	The bill has been amended to the entire Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. The Health Counsellor has the word for the bill's presentation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u18	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. I believe that today is an important day when I come before this House to present the Bill amending Law 8/2008 on health in Galicia. I want to start by recalling that for this Government the public services on which the state of well-being is based are a clear priority, as is reflected in budgets, and more specifically in health care, where we invest 41% of the board budget in Galicia. More and better services and closer to the citizen is what this new Health Act is looking for. The healthcare field is characterized by its need for constant updating and the search for excellence from the improvement of its actions. So knowledge and innovation are essential elements in our day-to-day lives and are part of our DNA. The law will be ten years old, and in this time period an update is needed to ensure and expand the public health system, in addition to continuing to seek optimal use of resources and better and more efficient care for patients. Update to keep moving. Public health has advanced enormously in the last decade: the Galician Health Service has more than 38,000 workers, 1,544 professionals more than ten years ago. We have more and better infrastructure, more advanced technology. We are pioneers in the use of new information technologies to facilitate the work and participation of professionals, patients and citizens. We managed to improve the quality of the service with more activity and better results. We perform more activity and prevention programs, and we treat the most serious patients in less time. At the same time, patients and citizens have greater guarantees and more decision-making capacity. We work not only for patients, but also for patients, to whom we give greater participation through the modification that we propose today. So we think it's time to update your Health Law as well and continue to make progress. This is a change — not the exception of Law 8/2008 — and we want to adapt precisely the legislation to the current reality. We changed between 15 and 20% of the 2008 Act. I'm going to briefly expose the changes included in the bill, which are grouped into six paragraphs. The first point is territorial organization. The health map of Galicia is a strategic tool for the planning and management of health activities, which aims to define the territorial management in which the public health system of Galicia is structured. The current health map in Galicia has been adopted by Decree 126/1984 for more than thirty years, with the amendments introduced by Decrees 50 and 324 of 1992. This map does not coincide with the reality of Sergas' operation today, which has 7 integrated management organizational structures and 14 hospitals or hospital complexes. The Bill amending Law 8/2008 provides that the Public Health System of Galicia is ordered territorially in health areas, health districts and health areas. We follow what the General Health Act says, Law 14 of 1986. The health areas that coincide with the EOXI actions will correspond to the integrated management of all public health care resources in their territory, as well as the services and programmes that are being developed. They will consolidate the integration model to facilitate the approach of professionals to patients, which since 2011 made it possible to avoid more than 260,000 displacements, because patients were treated in hospitals closest to their homes, in the comarcas hospitals. Less moves and more services close to citizens. The health districts that coincide with the geographic habits of Sergas hospitals will be the territorial divisions of the health areas, which will constitute the reference framework for coordination of primary, hospital and socio-health care devices. The primary is the essential pillar of the system in coordination with the hospital, therefore, it is guaranteed that each of them should have a hospital in their geographic area. Citizens of the districts of Cee, Barba and Verín will have the same rights as others. The existence and permanence of these centres are thus collected in a rule of law. Health zones shall be the basic units for the provision of health services. Point two is the participation organs, for us an essential element of the health of the 21st century. The participation of citizens in decision-making is guaranteed through local, comarcal and autonomic representation bodies. As far as the Greek health and area councils are concerned, we want to make them closer to citizens and more operational. But participation is extended, it is not limited to these autonomous bodies and areas of health, but it extends to all hospitals, including those that now have no territorial entities, because it seems the territorial level of district, territorial organization matching, as I say, with the fields of each and every hospital institution, regulates the 14 district health councils, one for each of the existing hospitals. So for the first time, too, there will be direct social participation in the hospitals of Verín, Cee and Barbacia. The Advisory Council for Patients is currently not regulated, and the change will increase the legal status of its existence. The patients will count on their own body of representation, as counsellor. Thus, the total number of social participation entities regulated by law through this amendment will shift from the current 12 to the future 23. In paragraph 3, amending the law and the health authority, the health authority shall be extended to all health inspectors, as well as to the territorial heads of the Health Council. The inspectors of health services, but not the inspectors of public health, have so far been considered health authorities in the field of inspection. With the amendment, all health inspectors, including public health inspectors, who are doctors, veterinarians, pharmacists, will also have the consideration of health authority in the exercise of their functions, which will enable them to make decisions in the field of their work, such as taking precautionary measures such as intervention, immobilization of products and/or suspension of activities which pose a serious imminent risk to public health. In this way, the decisions of public health inspectors can be made more agile, more security for citizens. Paragraph 4 is personnel management. Essential to this change, which seeks to improve the working climate. In general, the invitation to tender for transfers as a provision within the health centres and institutions of the public system of Galicia shall be established. The invitation to tenders for transfers may be permanent, open, with their vigil over time through successive and periodic adjudication resolutions. It also establishes the possibility for the Health Administration to define professional itineraries for the staff of the Public Health System of Galicia, understanding, as such, the set of jobs that form an area of common competences, skills, knowledge and training, and that enable for their performance by the staff different categories of the health system of Galicia. The professionals will, without any doubt, remain connected to the area and maintain their original destination, and the healthcare professional will benefit from the possibility of belonging to wider services, improving their specialization. Furthermore, aggression, threats or coercion are included as a very serious lack to any health care professional, something that has so far been reduced to the health authority. In this area, and at the request of trade unions and professional schools, it will be included for any health professional, within, logically, the exercise of his duties. Point 5 is also important: teaching, research and innovation. Most of the articles on the research, teaching and innovation of Law 8/2008 have already been repealed by subsequent rules, so it is necessary to articulate this by adapting it to the current situation, after the creation of the Galician Agency for Knowledge and Research in Health Matters, a body dependent on the Health Council which has unified the dispersed competences in the field of training, research and innovation; a body of strategic importance to the health system, since the continuing training of our professionals and the capacities and potential for research and innovation are intrinsic to the health organization and contribute to improving professional competence and quality of care. As paragraph 6, within the amendments, there is the creation of the Interdepartmental Commission on Education and Health. The Interdepartmental Commission on Education and Health is created by law. In the current law there is only the committee on socio-health, i.e. among the health and social policy councils, which, of course, we have maintained. Health, care and life habits are multifactorial, socially transversal issues that require interdisciplinary approaches. For this reason, health councils and education authorities share a lot of synergies, have a lot of joint initiatives, so we consider that this education and health commission should also be given legal status, which enables us to support and coordinate all initiatives. These, in short, are the changes, the changes we proposed in the project we presented. We are convinced that these are necessary changes, that they improve existing regulations and that they will bring benefits, essentially, to citizens, to their attention and assistance, which is our main objective and our obligation. With this reform, health centres and comarcal hospitals will continue to provide good quality care, which, in any case, will be improved by this Health Law Amendment Project, which, I insist, has as its sole aim to adapt to the different realities that are being produced in the health issue. Obviously, comarcas will not be closed, as they are used in different tertulas, but will be enhanced with more investments and more services. We always seek as much consensus as possible by holding meetings with all the agents and collectives involved, professionals of Sergas, professional schools, pharmacists, nursing, veterinarians, dentists, physiotherapists... and in other areas with mayors and municipal spokespersons, citizen forums, of course, with union representation, patient associations... a wide participation, and we collect the approaches we consider to improve the proposal; you come up with different groups such as professional colleges, trade unions or associations at different meetings that we have all held with them since the beginning of the processing of this amendment, beyond the month of August. Specifically, of those received from medical and nursing schools, among others, we collect their direct integration into social participation bodies: to introduce consideration as a very serious lack of any aggression, obviously exercised on health personnel. As I said earlier, the unions also made this suggestion, that health areas should always be established according to the needs of the population. We also collect suggestions from associations and from the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, in the sense that social representation reaches the district level, or that the names of each and every one of the areas or districts were included in the law, so that they are shielded by the law itself. I hope that during the parliamentary process the various groups will also draw close to each other and that among all of us we can improve a normative text of great importance to citizenship. I think this is Parliament's time. Since it was hung on the transparency portal this law, from the political parties the only thing you wanted to do is make the withdrawal of the law. This morning they insisted again. I believe that Parliament is precisely for this to discuss the laws and see how we can improve them. [[Applause]] For my part, I wanted to take advantage of this first debate of the new law for thanks to the entire team of the Health Council for their work all these months, and to all those who collaborated on this project. As I say, there has been a great deal of participation in the suggestions that have been put on the transparency portal as well as in subsequent meetings, which, as I say, have been enriching this document. And, of course, from our perspective we want and we believe that Parliament will still make an improvement to this text, as I say an important text, because it will define Galicia's public health system for the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u19	Thank you, Counselor. The role of defence of amendments to the whole and the return, and of positioning with respect to the bill. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u20	Good day to all and all. Greetings, too, the people who accompany us from the rostrum, professionals, representatives of the SOS Public Health Platform. And I also want to begin by thanking them for the enormous work they are doing on that path of defending public health in the service of the Greeks and the Greeks and against this continued privatization and the dismantling that is being carried out by the People's Party-led Union. [[Applause]] He said a moment ago the spokesperson for the People's Party who didn't want to be legislated at the coup of counting protesters, which is the same thing as listening to thousands of Greeks and Greeks. It is clear that the People's Party prefers to govern the coup of the interests of industry, the pharmaceutical industry, the technological industry and the private health industry. [[Applause]] Clearly, there is no problem there that is the blow to listen, precisely, to this sector and not to listen to the vast majority of citizenship. [[Applause]] And, of course, the concern about the public health situation in Galicia does nothing but increase. Now the counselor was saying, despondently of the initial speech, that this was a simple change in terminology, it was a little bit more than a terminology update. I didn't see all those suggestions, all those recommendations, all those approaches to people, collectives, professionals, do them for a simple terminology change; it's obvious that they do it because this law is a lot more than a change of names. And it's obvious that there is a growing concern about this, just as there is a growing rejection of the decisions that the People's Party has been making since the Health Council. Since the publication of this preliminary draft amendment to the Health Act, rejections have not ceased. In addition to all these strikes, hundreds of allegations on the transparency portal, despite doing so with nighttime and relief in the middle of August, which, of course, points out that there was no intention to speak or to dialogue; statements against professionals, trade unions, motions adopted in councils and deputies, massive mobilizations in the four health areas they intend to suppress: Salnes, Valdeorras, The Navy and Monforte; thousands of people in all of them, people in the streets who do not want to suppress their health areas, gentlemen and ladies of the People's Party, and do not want because they already know what is behind that roadmap, they already know what came behind the creation of the EOXI, who were less comarcial health areas and loss of services. And on Sunday in the streets of Compostela there was a genuine cry in defense of Galicia's public health, a cry against the progressive, continuous, unpauseful dismantling of public health that the People's Party has been carrying out since the Union, a cry against the privatization of public health, a cry against budget cuts, media cuts and personnel. And in the face of this historic mobilization — as the people of Greece played this Sunday — a government that had as priority the interest of citizenship, a government that had as its goal to rule for the majority, would take note and listen. Mr Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr Núñez Feijóo — who is not here in Parliament today, does not seem of interest to you — listened to the thousands of people who went out on Sunday in spite of the cold and the rain, did they hear them, took note of what they were told in the streets? And the question is, did you hear and you're going to correct? So today we hear it seems that they have no intention of rectification, they seem to have every intention of following back turned to what the Greeks and the Greeks are asking for. Because what those thousands of people asked them to go out into the street was that they'd get rectified. They made it clear that public health is a very precious thing for the Greeks and the Greeks and they won't be allowed to spoil it, they won't be allowed to steal it, even if you intend to disguise yourself and it looks like they're stealing it with silk gloves, but they won't allow it. Because people demand free, universal and quality Greek health. We continue to demand universal, free and quality health. And look, the thousands of people who mobilized at Compostela have given evidence -- as Abraham Lincoln said a long time ago -- that you can fool everyone for some time, you can fool some all the time, but you can't cheat all the time, and you can't fool everyone all the time, you can't. More and more of them are the Greeks and Greeks who are not deceived by their falsehoods, in spite of the multi-reports of the public and private media, in spite of the informative treatment, in spite of the fact that TV Galega relegated the event information this Sunday to the end of the briefing, almost three and a half o'clock in the afternoon, when the news starts at two and a half o'clock in the afternoon; in spite of all this, most of the people in Greece can no longer be misled. And we've been accused these days, the manager of Sergas, who is in the rostrum, the director general, that what we're doing is disparaging public health, that we're disparaging public health. And, who despises public health?, who abuses?, who cuts budgets?, who cuts staff?, who works to benefit the private? Or do we denouncing the situation require a change of direction? And it's obvious that it's who does the first, who despises Welsh public health is the People's Party, which, moreover, doesn't happen to desecrate public health, it's part of the roadmap, because the more damaged, the more desecrated public health, the more justified to do what they're doing, the more justified to derive patients, to derive public budget for private health. That's your goal, that's the goal of the People's Party. And what's the confusion with which we're subjecting public health or citizenship and what are the false data we're transferring to them? I'm saying this because these days they've dedicated themselves to saying that it was false, that we do nothing but transfer lies and confusion. So, what's this confusion? That Galician public health is in a state of genuine emergency, that all the roads of the People's Party's health policy have and have ended privatization, the dismantling of public health on the basis of continuous cuts in public health resources to the service of private interests. That over the past few years the People's Party, with Nuñez Feijóo in the head, has driven all kinds of measures that undermine the dismantling of public health, which has reduced the budget of Galicia's public health, which has reduced professionals above the 2000s, which has eliminated nearly 800 public beds, which has made a massive privatization of services, which has imposed compensations for medicines and health drinks, and that the most vulnerable groups are the ones who are suffering most cruelly the consequences of this whole situation. That cuts have a very serious impact on the provision of health services, on the deterioration in health care, on the closure of beds, on the collapse of emergencies, on workers' work overloads, on the increase in waiting lists. Is all this not true, don't people see it every day and that's why he went out to the street this Sunday, to the streets of Compostela? People don't see all this or do we need to explain it to them? You see him every day. So, what's the falsity? That Junta handed them over to private companies, in its vast majority outside Galicia, lobbies — and that in an important part they have at the forefront prominent positions of the People's Party — very important parts of the public health system. Is that a lie? [[Applause]] Is it a lie, then, that they privatized strategic services, such as electromedicine, logistics platform, maintenance? Is it a lie that they handed over a contract for more than 20 million euros to Ibermansa — although they were warned that it was a mistake — that it turned out that they rescued him, it turns out that they still hold him back to pay, for breach of the contract, and that now in certain EOXI they have recontracted with the same company? Is it a lie that alarms by this kind of people party proceed? It's a lie, don't people see what they're doing? The ones who lie and try to cover the sun with your finger are you. Just as I suppose they won't dare say that since 2009 what they did with primary care was secondary to it, it was turned into this, because in that poor sister, totally secondary to the interests of hospital activity, which have diminished resources — 2,000 million euros accumulated — that many professionals have drawn up, that there are waiting lists in primary care, that there are massive consultations, that do not replace staff, that they invented that mode of interstitution which means that a person does his job and that on the side, and what he needs. Is it a lie to the falsehood of some of these things that I'm saying? Equally, is it a lie to the precariousness that professionals have been subjected to? It's a lie for a day, for hours, isn't it real? Or do those 3,000 contracts of those who wanted to assume to cut the flu peaks correspond to something more than with contracts for hours and chaining on the same day to four and five contracts the same professional? Is it a lie, this situation? It's obviously not. Just as it is not a lie that you voted for in 2013 the Health Benefits Guarantee Act was adopted only with the sole objective of making the referral of patients and public budgeting legal to private health, with that sole objective. Target that they have, curiously, developed in parallel with this presentation of the amendment of the Health Act and shortly after Núñez Feijóo had met with the employer of health, the employer who asked him for 88 million euros to finish the waiting lists. [[Applause]] The only objective of this law was precisely that, and people are shocked. It's scandalized that you put in a law that if you don't agree to go to private health care for them, it turns out that you exclude them from the list — if you exclude them from the list — wait and don't guarantee their waiting times. That's in the law and in the decree you just passed and you came into force on January 10. It's scandalized, it's horrified, you can't imagine how many people call us and approach us to say what they can do. They are not able to understand that a law contemplates such barbarity, that they consider that they have to go to private health because if not their administration, their government, it does not give them the right to that benefit if they do not. A real scandal. That's why, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, when the wise man marks the moon, the fool looks at his finger. And you pretend the Greek people look at your finger, but the moon of lies and deceptions is so big that everyone already sees the moon and no one looks at your finger, for that finger of lies and falsehoods, absolutely no one! And in this context where public health is, because you come and present an amendment to the Health Act which is not intended to solve any of these problems, neither the waiting lists, nor the staff situation, nor the substitutions covered... it is absolutely not intended to modify any of these issues. They presented an amendment to a health law of the year 2008 that, as soon as they arrived at the government -- they returned to the government in 2009 -- they had no interest in developing it, they left it in a drawer, and they didn't develop any aspects that were important to improve our country's public health. And it turns out they're now coming with an update, saying it was a precise update when they had absolutely no interest in developing that law, they had no interest in developing that law where the citizen participation was concerned. They voted against — the People's Party in this Parliament — of the initiatives brought by the BNG to set up and run the health councils, which were contemplated by law, both the Galician Health Council and the councils in all health areas, and you didn't want to put them into effect, and now they come with this law that will allow citizen participation. Nose sleeves! Nose sleeves! Nine years later, they paralyze any kind of citizen participation and now they say they have a change to make that participation possible. You must have the courage to say these things! And, of course, this bill is not a minor change, nor a mere change in terminology, it is a silent change, and it is a clock pump in the floating line of many aspects of Galician public health. And it's not in the direction of a quality health model near the population, community, participatory, dedicated to prevention. No, it's right in the opposite direction. And it's next to the roadmap of the People's Party to dismantle the public health of Galicia, to concentrate resources to facilitate the business to the private. And that's why this amendment of the law, Mr. Almuña, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u22	...it was the drip that filled the glass of the patience of many people, which filled the glass of the patience of the professionals, of the sick, of the citizens, and that's why they went out to the street massively this Sunday; because it's a drop that overflows the glass. Because people are sick of their health policy that goes against giving public health and quality to most of the population. It's just in the opposite direction, it's in the direction of turning public health into business for a few, and a few where the People's Party has enough to say. That's why we tabled this amendment to the whole refund, because we believe it's not the change that Galician public health needs. If you are able to leave yourself installed in the sovereignty and pre-power, it would be good for those thousands of people who went out on Sundays to the streets, rectified and turned to dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u23	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to begin by greeting Members and Members, Counsellor, and the people who accompany us in the rostrum, representatives of professional entities, collectives and workers, local entities... concerned, very concerned. A very small representation, too, in a way, of all the people who manifested themselves this Sunday morning, those who, according to some unfortunate statements by some of this House's voices, at some point go to demonstrations because they put buses and snacks on them. There weren't so many sandwiches, but there were a lot of people. [[Applause]] We're convinced that they haven't found a good place to walk on Sunday mornings, but they'll probably find it in another moment and you'll probably think it wasn't a good place. We have been there to defend that it is necessary to withdraw this cowardly reform. He's a coward. This is the sixth most important reform of the law of Greek health, on the sixth!, never announced, never proposed in this Parliament, in a proclamation by Mr Feijóo, not even in the investment, never proposed by the counsellor, never proposed the debate, never brought to any collective, initiated on 26 April—the second record remains in the Transparency Portal—, hidden, as children who want to do something that they know is wrong, hidden, on 26 April. On the 2nd of August — a significant desire for transparency, on the 2nd of August, until the board was on vacation — it was approved to be publicly exposed. It was approved by the Council of the Union on the December bridge. Everything shows a huge transparency will! It gives the feeling that you are ashamed of your own actions, and would give that feeling even with the powerful and powerful exposure you have made here, Counselor. [[Applause]] Talk to whom? Because you're talking to a lot of people. Talk to whom? With the unions? Two minutes before it was published at the Transparency Portal. With the official schools? There's no record. With the political groups? I'll tell you no. With patient associations? With which? Who did they talk to? Here are sometimes some speeches about the glory, the grandeur of Parliament. Of course, parliamentaryism is an indispensable tool! That's why the Socialists proposed in September that you, Counsellor, would come here to explain why the most important attempt to reform the health system, and the great parliamentarians of the People's Party, have been banned. That is your concern for Parliament. They started, according to the Transparency Portal, in April. He compares the counsellor ten months later to explain this project, ten months later. That is the respect of Parliament; we follow it with; I think you usually show that you don't. But look, you're defending that they've had a very broad dialogue process. I, by taking up the allegations made by many collectives, who come in the official documents, will make a brief review of the allegations and what the Council considered from each of them. The Official College of Physicians of Pontevedra presented amendments because it had doubts about the health authority and particularly about the inspection; refused. It pushed on the Health Map, depending on Galicia's territorial distribution; rejected. On the separation of hospital care and primary care agencies, which they considered essential; denied. There was improvement on the transfer contest; rejected. He presented a better definition of competent public authorities; rejected. Fegamp has proposed amendments to specify the service portfolio on the Health Map; rejected. Fademga presented amendments on staff specialized in the treatment of persons with disabilities, with rare diseases and terminal diseases; rejected. The Galician Nursing Council, amended by the lack of explanation of the new model, refused. He presented doubts about the representation of professionals; rejected. He presented amendments to keep the participating organs with the current representation or increase it; rejected. He has gone, because he does not consider it justified, the health substitutes and offers an alternative drafting; rejected. He presented a lot of doubts about the mobility of staff and took it away; he refused. He has made amends for lack of concretion on professional itineraries; rejected. He presented amendments on contributions, on professional accreditation; rejected. The Official College of Nursing in Ourense has tabled amendments because it considers that there are no explanations about the new organization; rejected. He presented amendments because he considered it necessary to have greater participation in the participating bodies; rejected. Amendments which were signed by the Official College of Nursing of Lugo and the Coruña, and which were also submitted; rejected. The Official College of Physiotherapists of Galicia, numerous amendments by objections to social participation; rejected. Particularly about the elimination of the right to information, rejected. He has made amends for his disagreement with the accessibility criteria to delimit the health areas; rejected. He made amends for his disagreement with the loss of competences and self-management of comarcial hospitals; rejected. Cogami has tabled amendments, with very interesting proposals, to extend rights to persons with disabilities; rejected. He has put forward numerous proposals on the improvement of participating bodies; rejected. They presented amendments to avoid territorial disparities and guarantee services; rejected. The Galician Council of Medical Colleges has tabled amendments for the indefinition and inconcretion of Article 115; rejected. He presented amendments to refuse the use of free designation as a usual method — how curious!—; rejected, as not! He presented amendments by serious doubts about professional itineraries; rejected. The Association of Patients and Users of the Santiago Hospital Complex proposed to return representation to social participation bodies; rejected. You have planned to return the right to information again as a concept of the participating bodies; rejected. It has planned amendments to increase jurisdiction over the Interdepartmental Commission; rejected. The Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs has proposed maintaining the functions of the Greek councils of areas; rejected. You have planned amendments on the suggestion of transitional provisions on the operation of councils; rejected. None, none. Who did you talk to, Counselor? With whom? [[Applause]] Because, of course, you can consider that they spoke to the People's Party, the Government spoke to the People's Party. Well, all right, we know you think they're the only ones here; there's more political groups, but they talked to the People's Party. It must have been such a conversation when they ask the questions here to the Government in full, it's those who remind me when I was little: "Hello, Mr. Pepito; hello, Mr. José." Who did you talk to, Counselor? But you also think that all these organizations, with all these amendments, all the people who manifested themselves on Sunday, are stringed ones who don't know each other and who don't see reality and are manipulated. Level degradation for the comarcal areas, which have been feeding for a long time, creates a reality, which you say doesn't exist. Let's see if it exists. In Valdeorras, isn't it true that there were four traumatologists and now there are two times one, and therefore one can't operate there and so one must derive people from Ourense — a concert, of course —? Isn't it true that there were 3 rehabilitators and that there are now none and they have to come from Ourense? Isn't it true that this causes delays in the waiting lists, Counselor? November 26, 2018, an appointment, but requested in August last year, uh! from August to November next year, an appointment in rehabilitation. Isn't it true that before there was one cardiologist and now it comes from Ourense, that there was one urologist and now it comes from Ourense? Isn't it true that in Monforte there are 1 cardiologist less than there was, that there was 1 allergologist and now it comes one day a week, 1 from Lugo? Isn't it true that in Monforte there are 1 nurse every 28 people at night and that the entire increase in staff goes to Lugo and not to Monforte? Isn't it true that there's a low-minimum computer service, so some of the devices and computers when they're broken have to come from Lugo to fix computers? Isn't that true? Isn't it true that at the Marine Hospital the Dermatology Service, for example, which now has less staff, needs to be attended from Lugo and then delays are increasing? Dermatology service, request for September 1, 2017, May 3, 2018. Isn't that true? Are these dates fake, Counselor? Isn't it true that the Service of Cardiology in the Navy has the same thing, that it has no staff and that the staff doesn't rest because it goes to Lugo? Isn't it true? Because I have an appointment from a 72-year-old gentleman asking for an appointment on August 24 of last year in Cardiology — his first visit — and he has by November 8, 2018. From August 24th to November 8th of the following year, which is fifteen months; 72 years, Counselor. Isn't it true that service cuts in comarcal hospitals are a reality and that we're losing quality in the system because of that? Isn't it true that the Salnés Hospital used to have a ray service and now isn't it? Isn't it true that there was a machine that worked and, as if it ruined Pontevedra's, they took the one from the Salnés Hospital and took her to Pontevedra and in the Salnés didn't stay? Isn't it true that before there was a Cardiology Service every day and now it only comes staff from Pontevedra and on it two days a week ago, and that being the same municipalities in the health area the inhabitants of Cambados have to go to Pontevedra while those of Vilagaría can we go to Salnès? Isn't it true that there is no more Cardiology Service for some people in the same health area? Isn't it true that there's no Neurology Service, as there was, every day of the week and now there's only those in Vilagarcia three days a week? Isn't that true? Isn't it true that one neurologist was hired for Salnes Hospital and that he works knows where? In Pontevedra, hired by the Salnés Hospital and working in Pontevedra. Isn't that true? Isn't all of this true, Counselor? Is it not true that decision-making powers are removed, the places where they decide? When you lose your decision-making capacity, you lose independence; when you lose independence, you gain dependence; and when you depend, you lose independence. Because if you can't decide about the health system in your health area, if you don't have the capacity to be a health area, if you have the health condition, you lose your capacity, and you lose your efficiency. Isn't it true, Counselor, all this? But you, in addition, feed that we're going to have a great social participation. They did a great hairdressing job about the law. I'll just quote you two questions about social participation, both in article 23. Two concepts have been removed, two. There are lots of things without discussion about social participation, but I think focusing on these two concepts is fundamental. Article 23.4 used to be and not now. We wonder what article 23: "The members of the health boards have the right to information.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I know, Counselor that you consider the right to information very dangerous, but it is that, even if you consider it dangerous, rights are not decided from the Council; we continue to have the right to information and if you do not include it in the law, they will be making a serious mistake, because they will mean that it is not possible to inform themselves about things, and for some reason it will be. Why is there no right of information on health boards? In the same article 23, in point 2, a word, one, in the functions: evaluation. Those who can now go to the boards of participation — which you will decide by decree — do not have the ability to evaluate. What are you doing? They're going to give them a power point, which tells them how things go and out; they don't even give them the power point. They're going to attend a marketing presentation for the media -- that's fine -- but they don't allow them to think or evaluate. For what? Is that participation? You can create a hundred and thirty-six thousand tips like that, but they have no validity. Participation means evaluation, it means making decisions together, it means having the right to information, Counselor. He introduced this preliminary draft, and now a project, with unacceptable forms. They didn't talk to anyone, they hid. And when someone hides, he has something to hide. This project hides things, it's a reform of silence, it's a serious reform of the system, and it has final objectives, and therefore you defend it with a certain tibia where it needs to be defended and only appeal to others that we have no idea of anything and we are all liars. I can't see you respond, Counselor, to that great parliamentaryism that you appeal to. We didn't see him here defending this project, we didn't see him bragging about it, we didn't see him announce it. There's something about this project that you like, but they're not willing to say, and what this project does is to improve the quality of the system. How will you believe in that system? You were making an appeal to follow the strategic lines of the 1986 Law. And then why do they withdraw all appeals to the 1986 Law in the reform? How can you say they're in accordance with that law if the appeals to that law are withdrawn? How can you say they agree with that law they voted against it? Yes, you are certainly on something consistent: they voted against the Law of 1986, which implemented Spain's public health, and voted against the Law of 2008, so they reformed it six times. But you will see, Mr Counsellor: health citizens regard it almost as the most personal element of the system, because they understand perfectly that they are fighting against the great challenges of this century, which is inequality, and public systems are equal, giving equal opportunities. And that I understand it's hard to explain, because we have to believe that, and equal opportunities is something that gives us public systems and public policies. You can't believe it because you've always been against it, but we argue that the goal of this reform is to disequalize, and that's why we're going to be against it and that's why we're asking you to retire. There are demographic and geographic inequalities in Galicia that the law doesn't solve, it increases; it alienates the human system, because it alienates decision-making systems; and it enhances the concentration of services. And we have great services at some high-performance level, of course! but we have a problem in dispersal of services, and we have a concentration in cities that will not be good. The semi-urban areas, the rural areas are going to be like sanitary areas of second, because they're going to lose the area condition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u26	—Finished, President. Therefore, this public health, which is, as I say to you, what citizens perceive as more personal, is what causes them to mobilize, not lies, is the perception that they are attacking something of their own. That's why you have a chance now. He may be the health counsellor who defends the system against a government who wants to limit or may be the aristocracy of a government against the system. You have an intermediate position, you have that privilege, and therefore you have to decide whether to defend one side or the other, because what is true is that these policies of this government have already confronted the government with the health system, and you have to decide. And we ask him to remove the law, to sit down, to talk about everything, but to think about it in the health system, and not to get us first to reduce the health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u27	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u28	Welcome to the members of the Public Health Platform. And indeed — as you have already moved here — thanks to the fight and struggle of all these years, every time the Health Council produces a new blow against the public health system. And good morning to the members of the Health Council. It can be seen that the councillor today brought reinforcements — his team — because he was quite alone after seeing Santiago de Compostela on Sundays full of people crying against this counter-reform. [[Applause]] Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. You don't touch an update, what they're coming up with is practically a counter-reform. As you have moved here on another occasion, this law has been trampled, reformed, changed and changed by you on multiple occasions. They never wanted this text and never respected it or at least never respected the principles contained in it. After what we've seen, after all these months of debate, you today — the People's Party, the Government — should withdraw this law. They should withdraw it because we call on the parliamentary groups — of course we are in a debate on the amendments to the whole — they are all of them to return — and because we also ask the political parties to do so. They should withdraw it because they are asked by the unions: those of health, those who are not of health — the class unions. They should withdraw it because they're asked by patient associations, because they're asked by neighbor associations, because they're asked by the public health platforms. They should withdraw it because they want it from all the social agents. But they should withdraw it because thousands of people asked for it, they went out and cried for it to be removed on Sunday in the streets of Compostela. But you keep making deaf ears, you keep maintaining that this is the place where we have to debate it. Well, we're already in the parliamentary process today, they have changes to return. Listen not to these parliamentary groups but to those thousands of people who have been told that what they're doing with our health has no parallel in how health is in recent years. Look, you assume all the claims that were included in the law. They've already been chosen here by all those who haven't accepted. And it's true, you don't hear the more than a thousand claims that came when you published the preliminary draft in August, exactly in the summer month. But it's just that you have to see how you treat the claims that professional schools, mayors, patients' collectives, associations do to the Health Council: "it doesn't make sense of their proposal," "it's the IGC's proposal with fewer words, so they're mere conjectures," "the assertions are not supported," "general assumptions not based on any evidence", "values without any basis, of a propagandistic type, in which nothing can be taken advantage." These are the comments you make to the claims that professional schools, that citizenship, that representatives of citizenship — mayors, mayors — that social groups, that groups of patients have made to this text. That's how you treat people! You obviously don't want to withdraw this bill, because it's part of your plan to destroy public health, not just about those health areas. And when you despise the people who are mobilized, when you say that they are manipulated, when you say that the data on which opposition is based, the unions and the people who mobilized are totally false, they despise all and every one of these people, who are really not even all voters of the opposition groups; they despise all the people who came — from the Navy, the Salnes, the Monforte, Valdeorras — telling them that you cannot do what you want to do with our health system. And look, you've already changed this rule, because Decree 168/2010 suppressed health areas since then, because really the EOXI what you've done is to reduce the health planning capacity of the areas, which you now eliminate through this new reform of the law, and of course also primary care agencies. You don't change the law to include more rights, to facilitate participation, to expand the areas of health — which you could do — to repeal that decree, to put an end to the indentation of our public health. They're modified to remove rights, to cut, to continue with that progressive gradual cut that makes our public health more and more smoky. And thousands of people went out on Sundays to tell them. You totally deny that this rule has no effect on the rights of people living in these health areas. You deny the right to persons living in rural areas. You think public health doesn't have to be universal, it doesn't have to be fair, it doesn't have to be an element of equality between people living at any point in Galicia. Of course, services are deleted! Of course, for all these years the services of the comarcal hospitals have suffered! Some examples have been moved here. We've talked on other occasions about how services are at the Monforte Hospital, how services are at the Marine Hospital, or how they are in Valdeorras. And when you talk about the possibility of belonging to larger, voluntary services, you introduce elements into the law that want to cheat on citizenship, moving that there will be more services. What they're talking about is precarious work, what they're talking about is forced mobility for doctors, for doctors; more precarious and therefore worse services and worse quality care. What they're talking about is that they're going to retire progressively even more services to these comarcal hospitals. What they're talking about is to recentralize health and, therefore, the progressive model change. You don't believe in primary care. Primary care has only 13% of the health budget, and half of Galicia's health budget is already dedicated to private companies. You cannot deny with this text that it is precisely done to facilitate your rotating doors, finger allocations, the entry of the health company into research — even more than it is now —. You simply have to read the amendments to Article 135, you have to read those indications that you make in that reform proposal that you talk about pushing measures to expose the need to increase the inverse transfer of knowledge. What does that mean? What do you do when you use euphemisms? Cut, remove rights. The reverse transfer of knowledge will go directly to the private company. "Measures for transfer of knowledge not oriented solely to commercialization or commercialised exploitation will be imposed," but they speak of "participation in spin-offs that have as a social object to carry out activities related to Health Administration, to which a licence will be granted for the commercial exploitation of results." Our health isn't a business niche for multinationals and their friendly companies. The reality is, Mr. Almuña, that your counter-reform presents points that provide licenses and rights to third parties on the exploitation of research results, something that gives even more to the bottom of the citizens' rights on what research has to be. [[Applause]] Research, development, innovation are essential aspects that must have as their final right to improve the health of the population, the right of all Welsh people to improve public service, public health, not with the benefit of the private company, not with the interests of the private company as a frontispic for that innovation, not with the precariousness of researchers and researchers. And that's what happens in these articles of this law. It's going further with that opacity; we still don't have those Medtronic papers, Counselor. It's to continue even further with the opacity in which you place the senior positions of your Council: the administrations, the political charges. You're also strengthening control and capacity. They're also going to be the health authority. We think it's perfect that the professionals are shielded from the aggressions in the health system. We don't think it's so good that you block that favoritism and arbitrariness in hiring health personnel, their health personnel, their senior positions. See if you too tomorrow — which we are going to talk about by the waiting lists — have the decency to answer for Mrs. Rocío Mosquera's plug — because she has no other name. That continues to place their public office; for their all; for the people, nothing. We place our positions as friends, cut public health and cut health areas. It is quite obvious the impact that it will have, the same as the Health Insurance Act and the decree accompanying it. And yes, Counselor, only ten days after the decree comes into force, you change the prices. Do you think I'm an ignorant person? You go out and move the reality. How much are they paying to private companies for transferring these patients? Private companies are the concerted health companies. Every day, because from the agencies themselves, every time a patient drifts, he's transferring a benefit to these private companies. That is how, Counsellor, you can shake your head and try to use the media to insult this honourable Member, his group and all the opposition groups. There's not enough media, Mr. Counsellor, to slow down the cuts and privatization of our public system. [[Applause]] And for all these months you have denied the possibility of withdrawing the law to sit down and talk. Because what was offered to them by the opposition, the groups of patients, the trade unions, the platforms in defense of public health was dialogue. No one said they were shut to modify the Health Act. There are probably things to update, there are probably more rights to provide. But you don't listen to anyone, you don't want to listen to anyone. And that's an obvious demonstration of pride -- we told them once again -- or of vanity, because when everyone is pointing to reality, looking to the other side is useless. Only those who rule in a despotic way don't listen to their people when they come out for thousands claim their right to health. And that's the reality. There are no improvements to that rule; simply, it is limited to cutting rights on a health that is already cut, Counselor. And, of course, you wanted to wait for parliamentary procedure. Well, here's the refund amendments, Counsellor! If you really want to listen, if you really want to assume that you accept the proposals that arrive to you — on this part of the opposition groups but also of society — you should sit down and understand that you have to accept some, one or all of the amendments, and sit down and talk. Dialogue was asked, but you don't listen to anyone at all. That you suppress health areas isn't an adaptation to the administrative system, because you've previously done the EOXI. If they really wanted to fit it into the needs of the population, what they would do would increase these health areas, what they would do would bring the elements, the services, the citizenship, and not look to the other side and pass the gasket when there are people suffering in the services. Tonight they were once again filled with the emergencies of Ourense Hospital, Counsellor; they had to put in the last hour a reinforcement that was useless; 10 patients explored, cared for in the corridor. Who decides which plants are closed? Who decides to keep plants closed, in the case of Ourense in the Materno, in the case of the Coruña as well as in the case of Vigo? Who decides a month closed with closed beds? Who decides that patients will be transferred to private health? Who marks those prices? We don't know anything, Counselor, you know everything. Well, please get out and light us up with the data, with that data from the non-structural waiting lists, which has been denying us the opposition for a year. The reality is we're in the face of a counter-reform that's what it's doing to sink in that cut. And you won't hear anything at all. I'm almost sure that not even in the process of partial amendments -- we've already finished the deadline to register them -- you won't answer any of the claims, which aren't ours, which aren't even those of the people in the gallery, who are those of all those people who mobilized on Sunday. And no, Counselor, it's no use treating them ignorant, saying they're manipulated, saying they have no idea. No one has any idea but you — it seems to be — The reality, Counselor, is that these people are right, because every day they taste the cutting of services in their flesh: when they wait in those corridors, when they wait for the waiting lists, when they wait for a year for an ultrasound. There's Mr. Campa in the rostrum; you know it. The primary care doctors said this in that debate that we had about the reform of the health law. When they wait six months for a resonance, they don't care about the disease. You know that, you know those figures, and either you're a sovereign or you're a fool. They have to choose and they have to choose if they accept the return of this law today and if they feel negotiating. Because you, of course, have an absolute and clear majority that you don't need opposition, they don't need social groups, they don't need unions to rule, but somebody smart, someone who really considers the rights of their people, sits down and listens. You choose today what you want to be. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the People's Parliamentary Group, to stand on the amendments, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u30	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor. I would like to greet the people who are in the Chamber and who have come to this session, this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come when the amendment of the Galician Health Act, Law 8/2008, will be discussed in this Parliament. What we have seen so far was a debate without arguments that confirms the prejudices of the opposition; that is really the dialogue they request, which is the single and exclusive withdrawal. A debate that sought to steal, as I said, the withdrawal of this legislative amendment, denying the legitimacy of the Government of Galician Union to update it, attempting to mobilize citizenship with manipulated interpretations of the bill and forgery of the real data of Greek public health. There are people who believe the things that tell them about these groups, but these things have just been rebuffed with the figures given by the Health Council. We understand from the majority group the concern about the Welsh public health of some of those people who attend the mergers, but we are concerned about the despicableness that is being done about our health in an attempt to exhaust the Government of the Union and win a few votes, causing people's mistrust in the Welsh public health, whose quality should not leave any doubt. They asked the opposition groups for a report from the Board of Auditors on the economic impact of the law and they asked for the parliamentary debate to be halted, it seems a bit that with the idea of delaying the processing of the bill and trying to stretch out the chicle to maintain the tension, which would tell former President Zapatero. The Board of Auditors has already published this report by evaluating this bill and confirming that this change will not generate an increase in any expenditure. The opposition groups are constantly talking about cuts and privatizations. These 1,000, 2,000 or 3,000 jobs lost in public health in Galicia — depending on the day and depending on the voicer — and that repeat full after full turn into an increase of 1,544 professionals working for the Public Health System in Galicia over the year 2008. Among them, 167 more family doctors in these years, 6.8%, and 583 nurses and nurses, 5.9% more — by the way, Mrs Prado, the intersubstitution existed in 2008, was not an invention of the People's Party Government, and 136 million in the staff chapter. The health budget reaches 41% of the total budget, with an increase over those years of 251 million euros. There are more surgeries, there are more consultations, there are more hospital income, there are more transplants, there are more sessions in hospitals for days, there are more home hospitalizations, there are fewer days of waiting list with special attention to the most serious pathologies. They also repeat the mantra of privatization, and, however, spending on health care with non-profit means is 5% less than it was in 2008 and 2009; that is, almost 11 million euros less. This same week, the manager of the EOXI in Pontevedra released data from the Salnés Hospital, which, from a total of more than 80,000 attendings, resulted in 180 people's meetings last year. Sergas' own manager also made public the system's attention figures, pretending that there are 12,000 tests, 20,000 consultations and 800 daily surgeries in the system. And the derivation to concerted health is 86 cases per day. The Guarantees Act has so far been fulfilled without any kind of private derivation since it is in force. He had already said a prestigious columnist in his paper this weekend that in the years leading up to the People's Party in the Government of the United Nations, if privatization were true that affirms the opposition that takes place, there would be no trace of public health. In the draft draft draft, many allegations were made, more than 1,500, but only 30 of them proposed changes to the articulated, and several of them of some importance were accepted. For example, Article 67(3) of the Territorial Organisation contained the possibility of establishing by decree other territorial divisions, taking into account available resources and health policy guidelines. Drafting the preliminary draft set a flag against the opposition, claiming that it would have to be for needs rather than for available resources. That claim, which was from the professional schools, was introduced and accepted, and so appears in the bill. District health councils were also added, which did not appear in the preliminary draft. You refuse a legislative amendment that is perfectly legal and legitimate and done according to the current legislation. You, in 2008, respecting legality and equally legitimate, have repealed a law, the Losga, of a People's Party government, which has been evaluated by over 52% of the Greeks and Greeks, and approved their health law, which did not repeal subsequent governments and now wants to change. We have a clear example of his double measuring rod in the performance of opposition party comrades in the Autonomous Community of Valencia. The Official Gazette of the Valencian Courts of October 4, 2017, published the text of the Bill of Law of the Generalitat amending Law 10/2014 — in 2014, in Valencia, passed a law by the People's Party, and in October, three years later, the rest of the groups already derogate it — from the Valencian Community. It's this bill. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You see, in your so-called moral superiority, you can change everything, whatever the People's Party does. [[Mr. Núñez Centeno displays a document.]] [[Applause]] The most curious thing about this law is that it amends Article 13(4) by ordering the Valencian Health System in supra-departmental health areas that constitute the geographic and functional framework composed of several health departments. The creation, modification and suppression of these areas will be regulated on a regular basis — it is textual to the preliminary draft — taking into account several criteria, including assistance, where the existence of resources will be assessed. [[Murmurs.]] In the law in force, approved by the Government of the People's Party, there were 24 health departments, specifying that law which is equivalent to the health areas existing in the state basic legislation. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, there were 24 areas. Now the Council prepares a health map that converts the 24 areas into 6. Of the 24 areas in Valencia, they now become 6. [[Mr. Núñez Centeno shows another document.]] You see, it's a similar amendment to the law in territorial management, to the proposal by the Government of Galician Union, but it's adopted by a government of socialists, nationalists, members of the tide and also of the party of Podemos, which envisages the reduction of the 24 areas approved by law by the People's Party in 6 assistance areas. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is done, according to counsellor Montón, to optimize and achieve more efficiency and efficiency. The idea is to combine all primary, specialized and over-specialized services in six large geographic areas that will incorporate a reference hospital — modification proposed by the Socialist Party and Compromis —. [[Murmurs.]] The People's Party of the Valencian Community does not oppose this amendment if it does not cause an increase in public spending on the creation of new posts, which are not envisaged in Galicia. And you know who complains in Valencia, according to the hemerotheque? The Valencian medical union complains, based on a decrease in the union representation of workers. [[Murmurs.]] In this area of territorial organisation, the amendment of Law 8/2008 adapts the health areas to the current area of EOXI, consolidating the integrated management model that prevails in European health. I would like to remind you at this point that the two-party government and the experts made public in October 2008 a proposal for health management in Galicia that included seven health areas and 13 health areas that are almost identical to the present one, which they now propose, with a difference: that the marine neighbours should go to Ferrol. I suppose the 2009 electoral defeat, which was unexpected to the opposition, was the reason that this territorial distribution did not apply. [[Murmurs.]] Are you against the fact that Barbanza, the Coast of Death or Verin has the consideration of districts, which they once lacked, or have health advice that they didn't have? What was the difference between these neighborhoods and the other hospitals that were considered health areas? This law mentions the existence of comarcal hospitals — as the Counsellor has said — with the establishment of health districts — 14 —, mentioned one by one in the text, and which take as reference the existing hospital institution in its territory. You repeat constantly since the arrival of President Feijóo's government, the mantra of the disappearance of the comarcal hospitals, that the citizenry already knows that it is still one of his falsities. There is no more to see the investment in infrastructure and technology that has been done since the creation of EOXI. How is it possible that hospitals are closing and expanding? Now, in the face of these investments, they're no longer talking about closure, they're talking about dismantling. This is just as certain that the private condition of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, of Vigo, in which they so much insisted in this Parliament, and even now a court ruling, in relation to the payment of VAT to the Council, gives reason to the Government and this parliamentary group in relation to the public condition of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, of Vigo. [[Applause]] This law, ladies and gentlemen, consolidates comarical hospitals as future health services in each of their geographic areas, continuing to be reference hospitals as up to now. This territorial organization will not cause any change in medical or hospital for any person and, on the other hand, will bring the health service closer to citizenship, will improve coordination between primary and hospital, with care coverage carried out with the same care criteria and referral between centres, with single area protocols and with greater interaction of professionals of the two levels of care. This change of law, ladies and gentlemen, brings the services to the citizen, who will receive closer attention to his or her home, ensuring the empowerment of services and specialties at the comarcal level. As has already been said in this Chamber and repeated today by the councillor, 260,000 moves have been avoided by the creation of EOXI. In the issue of social participation, the Galego de Saúde Council and the area and district health councils are developed, with the latter of one of the allegations presented during the pre-project exposure period. This amendment simplifies the regulation of participating bodies to make them closer to the citizen representation, more realistic and more operational. Its composition and functions have also been modified on the basis of allegations made to the original text. The law regulates the existence of the Advisory Council for Patients, in which the associations in which patients are grouped are involved, and which seems to be very disturbing to the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, are you opposed to considering health authorities or public health inspection personnel or that these personnel may impose precautionary, temporary, urgent measures in the event of serious risk? Are you against the fact that coercion, threat, aggression or any form of violence exercised against the professionals of the Public Health System in Galicia, in the exercise of their functions, is called a very serious offence? Are you against whether the Council assesses the impact on health to ensure that the health implications of decisions on public policies are taken into account? Are you against the open and permanent transfer contest or professional routes? You'll have to explain it to the professionals. Are you against teaching, continuing training and research in the public health system? Are you against a public health knowledge agency -- public agency, I repeat, as we have said here, similar to the Tax Agency? You seem to forget that your law regulated the creation of a Greek Institute of Health Research which had been defined as having a legal personality of its own and full capacity for the fulfilment of its purposes, but never referred to its public or private condition. Are you against promoting innovation in health research or that researchers can benefit from the results of their studies or that synergies with companies for the marketing of technology patents or medicines can generate high-quality employment and in addition revenues for the Public Health Service? Are you against the creation of an interdepartmental commission between health and education to develop health education, health habits promotion or the development of protocols for the care of children with chronic pathologies at school? I'm going to finish. Ladies and gentlemen, the majority support following the processing of this bill by rejecting its amendments to the whole. This change has met all regulations as to its processing. The territorial organization model will encourage the approach of assistance to patients in the comarcal hospitals. We think it's you who are risking the survival of these centers, in the face of the difficulty known today to cover the squares of these centers and the continuous rotation and vacancies of professionals that occur in them. This health-care organization, always respecting the volunteers of the professionals, will help to achieve the coverage of specialist squares in the comarcas hospitals in view of the possibility of teamwork with the reference hospitals, will regulate the displacement of professionals among different hospitals and will facilitate the coverage of possible absences by permits or casualties. And it will boost rural areas, quite the opposite of what you're spreading in the villages. We do not agree with your claim of loss of quality and proximity, but quite the opposite. We insist that it will improve the quality of our public health, bringing it closer to the patient. This very disastrous Greek health that you want to transmit to the population cannot correspond to what you have, for example, the rates of organ transplants that the citizen knows and recognizes; with which you have a unit for metabolic diseases congenital to the CHUS elected by the European Union as a reference center for rare diseases; with the only autonomous community that finances throughout Spain the treatment of muscular and spinal atrophy; or, as these days appeared in newspapers, with the State community that has the lowest rate of perinatal mortality, the lowest rate in the whole Spanish state. [[Applause]] These are the realities of our public health and the magnificent professionals who work in it. That's why we're going to refuse your refund amendments, hoping that among all of us we can reach agreements at the briefings...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u32	...to improve the final text of the law, by providing its amendments, as you intend to do also this majority group of the People's Party. # Nothing else and thank you so much #
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u33	Thank you very much. A replica of the amending parliamentary groups is now being opened. You have the floor, by the Galego Nationalist Block, Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u34	Mr. People's Party, it's very good that you come here to try to remove your breast or to discredit what they do elsewhere. But, of course, he wasn't there as right as setting the example of Valencia. Look—and I say it if those who are here don't know—of the last four Popular Party Health Advisers, three are charged and one is in jail, three are indicted and one is in jail. [[Applause]] And of course, what is the Government of the Valencian Community doing? You're reverting all the defeat that the People's Party did there, to recover services and infrastructure for public health, starting with that Alcira hospital that you wanted to set as an example and you've already actually found out what the People's Party health model was. [[Murmurs.]] That's the reality. [[Applause]] You also took off your chest here saying if we're against the Health Knowledge Agency. Well, look, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia told him something so clear, told him that it was illegal to name the manager, and it was evidenced why you created this Knowledge Agency. So there's already a sentence that says you've elected the manager illegally, and the rest is not to favor innovation or knowledge. Because, what was that People's Party promise that the researchers would stabilize? What was that promise? What was that promise where they were promised to create the figure of the investigator's staff statuary? Nothing at all, they left them thrown away, and they come here today to take a chest out saying that they created the Knowledge Agency. I also have to tell you that people don't need BNG or the other political forces to tell you what the health situation is; it's that, unfortunately, they suffer every day the situation, the consequences of the People's Party's health policy. And so it's not that they come to mobilize because we ask them, that they ask us to do something, to mobilize ourselves, and to stop this outcome. And let's stop this mess! It's backwards! [[Applause]] And look, if the opposition, and specifically the BNG, we can't give the exact number of professionals eliminated, it's due to the policy of opacity, of obscurantism, which the People's Party practises. Why don't the censuses, staff paintings be made public? Why are they installed when not facilitating the data? What fear do you have that we know of the reality of professionals, contracts, derivations, patients? They voted against systematically whenever we ask for how many patients are derived, because of what specialities, which centres and which are the beneficiary companies. Why are they afraid we know the data? Why are you scared? Why don't you have the courage to bring here the reports we ask you about what the health situation is? Because what we are systematically denouncing, from derivation, resources and from patients to private health is a reality and, to show, data from the entry into force of the 10th of January decree; to show, the hundreds of people you are already forwarding. It's just that it's a reality -- you put yourself as if you put it -- that the Law of Guarantees and the Decree that develops it only has as object this derivation to private, unique and exclusively, because how are the waiting lists going to be removed without a shock to eliminate them, without more personnel, without more resources, without more budget? How are they going to eliminate those 35,000 people who are on the waiting list — that you declare, then we could talk about all those on those structural lists? How are they going to get rid of them? Well, taking into account the private's request, they're sending us here, which we, with 88 million, are going to solve. That's what the People's Party is doing. And they systematically lie about the purpose of this law. You know that the comarcal hospitals -- it's said here -- they've done nothing but lose skills, they've done nothing but lose specialties -- at Salnés Hospital, cardiology; they go a cardiologist every time, and a different one, and they only attend to the population of some municipalities. In neurology, the same thing. The warehouse, supply, computer, accounting, loss of outpatient sample analysis was lost... we could still list. This is at Salnés Hospital, which is what I have as a reference hospital, but we can expand it to the rest. And you come here to say that this law is to favor proximity, that is, you leave primary care without management. Where are those things that you say here in this amendment of law? Where is that proximity when they make much bigger areas...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u36	And it turns out that there's absolutely nothing to recover from management, absolutely nothing at all. With which, if you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have stopped looking elsewhere, they have left, as I told them before, if they were to be installed in the prepotency, they should listen to what people in the street have told them. And, of course, if they don't listen, if they don't remove this change of law, it's just that you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u38	...they don't understand anything about what's going on in the country; they don't understand anything at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mr Torrido Quintela has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u40	Thank you, President. It was not to wait for anything else, but sometimes one had illusions that one could debate the law. Finally, after ten months of the start of the proceedings, after vetoing the counsellor's appearance, we come here to preach dialogue and other communities, the opposition... but the reform of little law, little! In any case, it's okay, I hope the spokesperson of the People's Party will reflect a little more sometimes on the examples he sets. I'm telling you because I have a good personal consideration -- you know -- and I don't think it's a good model to defend the management of the People's Party in Valencia. I don't think so. [[Applause]] Each one...! In any case, if you like Valencian law, which I do — I now explain to you why — you can invite your group to withdraw the amendments, because you come here to defend a law they have amended there. We need to maintain a little consistency.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u41	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u42	Anyway, I'm sure, if you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u43	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u44	Thank you very much. In any case, I have received a lot of information recently about the views of the People's Party, about this law, even some people who even talk about it, you do! They discuss the reform of the Health Act and even there are people of the People's Party who, instead of talking about other places, speak of it; for example, the mayor of Vilanova — you know him —: "The people are not happy with the service of the Hospital del Salnés". And he argues that this is the defense of why we have to make this reform... that, well, I live there and we're very happy with the professionals, so we're not happy that they take us out of our services. But add: "The neighbors are being treated badly. We have waiting lists for doctors to be more comfortable." This is your opinion, of the president of the Commonwealth, mayor of the People's Party. You will say you don't know him, surely; but it's complicated because the next day of making these statements Mr. Núñez Centeno met with him. This is your opinion, that we have waiting lists so that doctors are more comfortable. Is this really what professionals think? Why don't you come here and talk to the professionals? But is it what the professionals think?, that we have waiting lists to make them more comfortable, and that the fault that patients want to go to other hospitals is professional?, really? Because you even talk about armoring hospitals. Here, when the ILP was discussed about the Montecelo Hospital, his spokesman at that time said that the law was not the place to secure infrastructure, especially sanitation. And today you say they bring a reform to armor hospitals. From so much armory, they seem to be talking about more than a safe in a bank than in a hospital. Maybe they like to talk more about banks than hospitals. But, in any case, health areas. Of course, the Valencian model has another number of sanitary areas, because in Valencia there's not a couple of things going on like this. For example, where will it be decided now on the primary care of the mosque? Where? In Ourense. I'm sure they know how far there is to get from the Mosque to Ourense. It's hard to think that all the people who decide about Mosque's primary care know the mosque, or at least they know her enough. Where are you going to decide on primary care, for example, the Vice-President? Now they have a hospital in 25 minutes. You want to transfer the services to them at more than an hour and a half and decide on their primary care at more than an hour and a half. This doesn't happen either in Valencia or in many other autonomous communities, because we have a specificity, because we have very different distances and we have a different population, and we must adapt our system to the population and the conditions of the territory in which we live. That would be pretty sensible. So if we have mobility difficulties, if we have communication difficulties, if we have a more scattered and older population, we must not distance ourselves so far, much more than other communities, because the difficulty to move is much greater, and the attendance of people at hospitals and health centres is much greater in number. So we have to bring up the decisions, and you're going to decide about primary care, the one that many people give one, two or three times a week, and you're going to move away from decisions about it 150 kilometers away. That's not possible. That's what basically puts us against this reformulation of the health areas, which are pushing them away. It's a question of numbers. They're the farthest decisions and, therefore, we're avoiding the health of the system. I really like to know that the PP is very much celebrating reports that say they won't spend any more on health care, and you celebrate it. The Board of Auditors guarantees that we won't spend any more, and celebrate. So we're still asking them that we have to invest more in health care. We need to invest more in sandals! They don't celebrate so much that they give them reason not to invest so much and celebrate a little more that they give them less reason, but that they invest something else, it's much better. By the way, the fact that there are 1,500 professionals, we can discuss it every time you want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u46	If anyone has the ability to argue with me, say it, but there are no more 1,500 professionals; they're budgeted but they're not real. And no one is able to discuss this. You can repeat it. They're budgeted, but they don't exist. What do they spend on? In any case, those people who will call at eight in the morning so that at eight and five they will have to take the car to Lugo and leave for Monforte...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u48	...to march to Burela or take the car to Ourense to march to the boat of Valdeorras. Because that's the health you want, you have to decide at five in the morning who you can hire. That's not our model, gentlemen. We are planning to withdraw this reform and we are all talking about making a reform of everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u49	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u50	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u52	Thank you, President. The truth is, you have to have courage to come today to talk about the Valencian Country. There's a Gürtel trial tomorrow. Of course, it's not a good example to put on the table, Mr. Centeno. [[Applause]] Obviously, we can have a manic debate on texts that are unknown, trivialize the content of legal texts without knowing what they are going to talk about and not about the recovery of the universality that goes to that text, or of direct public management. But, well, what's more!, as none of you read it, because it doesn't matter, we can use it in a manic fashion in the debate... if, indeed, don't worry, Mrs. Prado, I'm sure you have some intervention, certainly. [[Murmurs.]] Well, let's get to the point. It seems that this is the dialogue offered by the People's Party, which offered it to the trade union centres, what it offered to the groups of patients, to the public health platforms, to the political parties... the parliamentary debate had to come, and the parliamentary debate came and, oh surprise!, to reject the amendments to return to the whole. Because now it seems that the debate is back to that presentation of partial amendments, because they do not intend to withdraw their counter-reform proposal. You're all cowards, they leave it tomorrow, and they're totally immersed in that bureaucracy that has who acts and governs from the sovereignty of "only I'm right, and we'll see if tomorrow we're talking." They have the partial amendments presented, obviously, and they are going to have to debate them, but, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, things aren't going to happen; we know, of course, that they won't accept — you are also sure that you have some speaking time, Mr Trenor — the amendments from the opposition, because they have left their deaf ears clear here to the opposition proposals, to the street proposals, to the voice of the street, to tell them that they had to withdraw this reform on Sunday. And, please, let the report of the Board of Auditors be valued, the truth is that it has to be worth it, uh, honestly! They value the report of the Board of Auditors, which denounces temporality in the Galician Health Service, the judgments they have against. How many contracts are there? How many hours? How much is that? How many hours have you paid for Social Security? How many people with temporary jobs, precarious jobs, jobs, if I may, of real shit? That's the reality. That's the reality! [[Murmurs.]] We must say this, Mr Counsellor, because you refer Parliament's debate to Parliament's solemnity, step over Parliament and disregard the amendments to the opposition. And so, in those conditions of misery and precariousness, the staff works. The timing also indicated it by the Board of Auditors, and the cover of the privatization of electromedicine also indicated it by the Board of Auditors, but we're still waiting for you to pay attention. We're still waiting for information. And why would they ever charge Ibermansa with those contracts? We also continue to expect them to admit that the Board of Auditors says that since you eliminated the administrations, 9.1% of the spending on high office has increased. That's the reality. They sold us that we had to reduce bureaucracy and that we were going to save because you were going to eliminate high office, but it wasn't reality. When you removed the agencies, increased the high charges, increased the expenses in high charges, because there's always a post to plug somebody in, there's always a post to plug somebody in! [[Applause]] And the Board of Auditors — if we are interested in the reports of the Board of Auditors — said that only the EOXI of Pontevedra-O Salnés had a final financial control report. You have no control over what you're doing. There's no public financial control data on EOXI, and when it hasn't been demonstrated for what they have served -- of course, we know, because it's obvious in the reductions in hospital and primary care services -- when there's still no public data, you're going to have a further reform. There is no final financial control report — except in Pontevedra-O Salnes. That's what his Board of Auditors says, and they could also listen to him in that sense. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that we knew, of course, that this day would come and that they would not accept the opposition proposals. I repeat and repeat what I said in the previous intervention: you rule from behind the citizenry, it doesn't matter if you go out 5 to 50. They can laugh when there are few people in a concentration, saying that they were 4 and they fit in a car -- actually, this is a very easy joke done by the People's Party -- or when there are thousands of people telling them they're not right, because you give them absolutely the same. Of course, we're going to see each other in the paper and of course we're going to debate the amendments, but I'm absolutely sure they won't accept the opposition proposals, because you're ruling with absolute pride.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u53	Thank you very much. I would ask you, Mrs Solla, to withdraw the qualifications from the contracts, which is not necessary, if you like. Okay, okay, because he's retired. [[Assentment.]] The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor. Oh, no, I thought I asked for it. I'm sorry. So we move on to the following legislative text. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, regulating the participation of local authorities in the tributes of the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u54	For the presentation of the non-law motion, by the Galician Socialist Group, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u55	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President. Well, the people who go away at best weren't too much of a participant than we asked the Group of the Greek Socialists for the Councils of Galicia. They don't seem to like it... well. "Local entities are a fundamental pillar of our democratic regime, where citizens can be more directly involved in the management of public services and where they seek to solve their problems and meet their needs. Therefore, it is an obligation to modernize the local public administration to improve its provision of services and to continue providing the local authorities with the best tools to deepen the provision of quality public services, the effectiveness of its management and the proximity to citizens." Extract from the Election Program of the People's Party 2016, "He did it in Galicia, yes." You remember that, don't you? Perfectly. That is why we are certain today — the socialists, the certain ones — that the entire parliamentary arch will manifest with facts and not just with words our support for the Greek municipalities. It is also worth recalling that in the speech on the state of Autonomy 2017, President Feijóo said that in the art of propaganda it is usually said that a thousand times repeated lie becomes true. So we are sure that the People's Party today will not miss the opportunity to fulfill the promised and to stop using the art of propaganda in its management at the Galician Union. You know, and all of the Members and Members here we know, that the municipalities are the closest administration to citizenship; it's something that they say continuously, that they fill their mouths and say it constantly. But you know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what this means: because when the Government of the State and the Government of the Galician Council of the PP left the people to match their accounts, the councils, with their budgetary rickets, they acted, and acted to meet their neighbours and acted to care for the most vulnerable people, to avoid their economic exclusion and social exclusion, increasing their accounts in social emergency. They re-created municipal wardrobes, ran food-harvesting campaigns, paid rents to avoid releases, helped their children so they could be educated in normal conditions with other boys and funded the services of "Talking on Wheels." And look, even today, there is news in La opiniona, where it says, "Galice finances less than the fifth part of the social services of the municipalities. The Galician community is the third with a lower cost in this area, by smelting the EUR 275 per inhabitant."; a report prepared, with data from the Ministry of Business 2017, by the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services. And they also say, by the way — because they use it many times —: "In the other extreme, Andalusia, autonomy, which contributes to the greatest extent to the cost of the social services of its municipalities and deputies." Ohhhhhh! [[Applause]] Do you even know what? They also acted in the yellow municipalities of all colors to reform and improve the educational centers that the Union did not care to prevent further precariousness. They also acted to address the victims of gender-based violence, these women, taking care of them, and also to protect their children and their daughters. They also acted by assuming greater funding in children's schools and day-care centres, and acting in a large number of inappropriate skills to attend to their citizenship. They didn't care who had the competition, they put the money from where they went to serve their citizenship. Do you know what he was doing while the state government of the People's Party? So to promote legislative changes that limited local government's economic, political and competence, austerity policies, which have worsened even more than in itself the difficult situation of local administrations. They have passed a law of rationalization and sustainability, with the excuse of clarifying municipal powers, rationalizing the administrative structure and ensuring stricter financial and budgetary control. And you know it was the only one they conquered? A disproportionate increase in administrative work, mainly charging national skills, working continuously for Mr. Montoro, hampering political work, a division of unreasonable competences and granting provincial deputies a number of powers that were neither the most suitable administrations to lend them. And what did the PP government do at the Galician board? Why didn't he join with other autonomous communities to defend the municipalities against Montoro's reforms? Because the German autonomous community didn't do it. But look, they have at this moment, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the opportunity to reconcile with communism, to show that they do what they say, and not only that they are advertising and propaganda just like the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the most important need for local authorities — our municipalities — is regulation by law of their funding, providing a guarantee of their income and therefore a guarantee of the benefits of their public services. You know perfectly well that the Spanish Constitution and the European Charter of Local Self-Government establish and enshrine the principles of autonomy and financial adequacy of local authorities. They also know that the Autonomy Statute provides that local entities' income will be received through the Autonomous Community of Wales and Law 7/1985, a regulator of local regime bases, as amended by Law 27/2013, which also provides that local holdings will be provided with sufficient resources for the purposes of local entities. At this point, the German Government has just appeared here, in this Greek Parliament, in the previous plenary session, to take account of the management accounts of the Galician Union, of the continued growth for four consecutive years, and in those who tell us continually about healthy growth. Well, we socialists think it's the most appropriate time to carry out this fair municipal claim, which will no longer be a promise to be a reality, and will no longer have a policy of publicity and propaganda just like the People's Party. You know that the Galego Local Cooperation Fund set up in 1990 was the biggest achievement for local government funding, which in 2002 became a share in the income of the Union and no longer being finalist, something absolutely important. But it had to be in 2005, with a socialist government chaired by Emilio Pérez Touriño, when the Galician Local Cooperation Commission approved the document for the materialization of the local Covenant in Galicia. And only five months later, on January 20, 2006, the President of the Galician Union, Emilio Pérez Touriño, and the President of the Fegamp — I remind you: Xosé Crespo, who was mayor of Lalín and at that time was President of the Fegamp — signed the Greek Local Covenant, with a very concrete purpose, and it was to redeploy the competences between the Autonomous Community of Galicia and the local administration, based on principles of subsidiarity, with regard to local autonomy and providing local administrations with sufficient funding for the provision of their powers. And in paragraph 1 they talked about funding, saying that "Without prejudice to the irrevocable and indispensable goal of achieving a state pact for financing, the Autonomous Community of Greece will carry out the following actions: regulate the Local Cooperation Fund 2006-2019, establishing a supplementary account of EUR 6 million for each of these years, which will become part of the fund base". In other words, the main fund and the additional fund will subsequently increase with the growth of crops experienced in chapters I, II and III of the autonomous Community's income budgets. Well, I'm going to give you a reminder: year 2000, something more than 32 million and a half euros, Local Cooperation Fund; year 2008, nearly 120 million euros; year 2018, almost 113 million euros; that is, 7 million less after ten years. That is, the Government of the Socialist Party, in eight years, increases to 87.4 million euros more; the Government of the Feijó Nuñez, ten years later, 7 million years less. You know what that means? That over these ten years funding to local administrations by the People's Party has lost about 52 million euros. If it's a lie, then they beat me up here with data. These are data that Fegamp gives me, and, as far as I know, in Fegamp all political groups are represented. So I think it's data that can be corroborated and that can be proven; not like you, that sometimes get data out of the gossip or even from those that don't publish and you only know it. By the way, it will also be a lie that the percentage that was applied to the vegetative growth of chapters I, II and III, which were approved with the Fegamp, and that in Law 3/2017, once the 2017 budgets were already approved, what they do is: as they apply to the percentage, they are higher amount, they do it in reverse: they put the amount and then they reduce the percentage — do it in reverse —. Great! Is that a lie? If you want it, I'll get it all documented, I can't make up anything. No, not at all, sir. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And for this 2018 exercise they do that adaptation again; that is, they get that smaller percentage that gives them a smaller amount. And they also say they increase the extra fund by something more than 6,300,000 euros. But it's a lie, because the Local Cooperation Fund was a non-finalist fund — I remind you — and so it was in 2000. And you put 6,300,000 for: increased maintenance of the Fegamp, 129,668; municipalities with penitentiary institutions, 145,000; comarcallization and fire stations, 1,700,000; operating costs in health centres to the municipalities, some; and, if left, mid-grade conservatories; aha!, and a finalist complement for merged municipalities of 1,300,000. This isn't a Local Cooperation Fund, this is finalist funds that you can get from anywhere else. Well, the socialists what we are looking for with the approval of this law is to shield by law the funding to local administrations, ensuring a minimum with the base fund and the corresponding increments according to the increases in incomes of Galician Union itself, as well as to evaluate those aids and subsidies for municipalities that do not necessarily have to have a finalist character and that become part of the Local Cooperation Fund. You have just approved the budgets for the 2018 fiscal year and in your chapter V, which puts "Local Corporations", states that the funds allocated to local corporations are more than 360 million euros, of which many have to be guarded by the Galician board, and it is the Galician board that determines its purpose. So what we ask is that those who don't have to be absolutely necessary for a purpose, that be the municipalities that determine their needs and, therefore, that be the municipalities who determine where they should act. You also know the document approved by the Fegamp and presented after these eight years in which the Galician Local Cooperation Commission — I suppose they had the opportunity to discuss it there — and those who also tell us that it would be appropriate for participation in the income of the Autonomous Community of the Greek Town Councils to be regulated by a specific autonomous law consensual with the Fegamp, and that it is necessary to establish a fixed percentage of the municipalities' participation in chapters I, II and III of the revenue budget of the General Administration of Galicia, clarifying precisely the criteria for annual homogenisation that apply. I hope in this first intervention — and I will finish here — that the People's Party will rectify and that once and for all comply with what it promises and that it will stop doing what President Feijóo said to us: "In the art of propaganda, it is used to say that a thousand times repeated lie becomes true." It really turns them into facts and not announcements that they never do after. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u57	Good morning. Well, from the BNG we share part of the argument. We share, of course, the lack of resources from the municipalities to meet their competences, to provide quality services, and we share that ricketsism, that underfunding from the municipalities. And, of course, there is discrimination of the Greek municipalities in the current funding system. And also, of course, we have differences in solutions, because the solution to the BNG should not go through the distribution of the crumbs, it should not go through the reduction of the resources of the Board to increase those of the Town Councils. The solution goes through the BNG trial, a new financing system for Galicia and the municipalities, and, of course, goes beyond the current financing system, which is, in addition to centralisation, discriminatory and unfair. And this is also corroborated and defended by the Fegamp and all the parties that are there represented. And in addition to this, BNG goes further and defends a completely different system of self-financing from the current one. A concert system that goes through that Galicia also manages its powers in tax matters, that has its own estate, that can set up advanced and progressive taxation criteria, so that it can pay more than it has, so that we have more resources and also so that municipalities can enjoy more resources to provide those services that the population needs. So what we're talking about is a change in the playing field; what we want Galicia to play in the league of nations and not that it plays in this league of regions, in this regional league, which is not even a preferred region. The goal, therefore, is to end the trouble that Galicia suffers, that they suffer from the Greek municipalities, that they suffer, ultimately, the people who live in this country, the Greek people. We know that the People's Party doesn't like the word "aggravating." What do you want us to call the government of the state?, do you call it "agarimo"?, do you call it "afago"?, do you call it "affection"?, do you call it "love"? We say it's aggravating, it's discrimination, it's a robbery, it's a robbery too. That's what we call it. And we don't say that. Look, tell him Fegamp's own documents -- you also have Fegamp's documents. And those documents say that the Greek municipalities stopped entering or lost 1,400 million euros in the period 2004-2014. Imagine what we're talking about: €1.4 billion simply because of the system of distribution of participation in state income! If this isn't aggravating, if this isn't discrimination, if this isn't stealing, what do we call it that? Fegamp itself said that in 2015 Galicia accounted for 6.25 % of the population and received 5% of the funds. We also have the 2015 Report of the Board of Auditors, which makes it unquestionable that Galicia is at the last position of the State communities as regards the financing of the municipalities, and at all levels, from the municipalities of more than 50,000 inhabitants to those of less than 5,000 inhabitants, we are all at the last place of the financing ranking. And there is also a demand, unanimously shared by all groups, to change the criteria for sharing participation in state income, recognizing that we are a different place, that we are a nation, that we are a different country, that we have geographical and population characteristics that justify a fairer distribution criterion, that allows us to meet the needs of our country, our territory, that, to begin with, has half of the state's population nuclei — and this is not a minor issue, because this means that we have more than thousands of miles of road network, that we have more than thousands of kilometres of lighting network, of water supply, and that is more expensive, for example, to collect the waste — for not talking about the aging issue of the population. And I also want to recall that there are agreements, one, for example, in May 2015, of this parliament — the BNG instances — that literally says that "it urges the Galician Union to request a new funding system for the municipalities that takes into account factors such as population dispersion and aging to avoid the current unfair distribution". We are waiting, gentlemen of the People's Party, for these agreements to be concluded. And, of course, if this was not enough, because this damage, this discrimination, this theft was not enough, it turns out that the damage has been aggravated in recent years by all the changes, by all the retroactive reforms that have been adopted from the State — and here it must be said that it is not only the responsibility of the People's Party, that there have been more groups that have supported these reforms — and that what they have done has been suffocating and strangling the financial capacity of the municipalities — not just the municipalities, but in this case we are talking about the councils — to meet the demands, needs, the competencies they have. And first of all, I refer to the reform of the 2009 self-financing system, which is recognised by the Fegamp. Secondly, I refer to the reform of Article 135 of the Constitution in 2010. By the way, the Constitution, as we have already said, is a sacred text, an untouchable text, unless it is to favour those who must be encouraged: to meet the dictates of the bank and of the great capital and to prioritize the payment of the interest of the debt, as was done in this reform. And thirdly, I refer to the Law of 2013 on the rationalization and sustainability of the local administration, which is derived from this reform of the Constitution. Because, of course, we cannot say: we are against the 2013 reform, but we support the 2010 constitutional reform. The two issues are directly related, and those who supported this are equally responsible. And what that reform did was to impose an absolutely rigid framework on public spending, debt and staff recruitment. And with this framework, with this corset, with this jersey of strength of these legal reforms, you can talk a lot about the local pact, but in the end it's all going to read, because the municipalities, the local authorities, have no financial capacity, nor the autonomous governments have a legal framework that allows them to move forward on these issues. And so we have been or have been eight years, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, without bringing together the Committee to follow up the local Covenant. And all the issues that the debate is there are going on. All: from the question of financing — of course — from the local water pact, from the maintenance of educational centres and health centres... Yes, some have approved there, but it is not resolved by the substantive question, or by the Local Cooperation Fund. And so we come to a limited situation, to an absolutely limited situation, and that made Fegamp strike on the table with that document of the hundred measures, with that document for a new model of local funding. And what you have to say there is not just the subject of debate here today, the Law of regulation on the participation in the income of the Autonomous Community, which says to Fegamp, firstly, and by this order, and this is important, by this order, is that we have to change the system of financing, the participation in the income of the State with criteria for distribution that take account of the reality of our country. Secondly — and it should be in this order, so also since the BNG we have some nuances and some differences with regard to the proposal, in the sense that before this law we should pass what is also requested by the Fegamp in the second place, which is a Greek law of local estates— says: "Request that in this legislation"—at present— "if you approve a law of local farms in Galicia consensual with the Fegamp, in which you manage the economic and financial situation of local authorities in Greece in view of its diversity, its specificity, its identity within the state." Then there is the law on the regulation of participation in the incomes of the Autonomous Community, which comes here today the debate, and also — this is very important, defended by all groups in the Fegamp, also by the People's Party, and we hope that they will be consistent with this — the amendment of the Budget Stability Act, eliminating rigid limits on public expenditure. This is also essential to change the situation of asphyxiation, of strangulation that public administrations have, and also of municipalities to meet their needs. Finally, the BNG will support the admission of this proposal, without going into the background, in the debate, which will already have occasion, if this procedure is going through. And anyway, what we propose here is a global debate about self-financing and local, because we cannot undress a saint to wear another one. And what we propose is a new financing system that ends with the current system, which is discriminatory and unfair, starting with the financing of Galicia, the Autonomous Community of Galicia. And the key to this is that we have more resources as a country and also since the municipalities, but not receiving alms,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u58	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u59	...not receiving charity, but having what we rightly need, which are more resources for the Galician Union to fund public services, also to finance the municipalities, to end discrimination, to end the aggravating and to have better public services. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u60	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u61	Good morning. The purpose of the bill we are discussing today is to improve the funding of the municipalities, of the local administration, increasing their available resources through increased participation in the income of the Autonomous Community. As the proposal for a law, which is so well defended in the House by the spokesman for the Socialist Party, it collects textually the agreements of the Fegamp, adopted unanimously, in relation to one, nothing more than one, of the aspects of local funding, which is the participation in the incomes of the Autonomous Community, the PICA in English. In particular, the Fegamp agreement — agreed by the four forces representing this chamber — proposes the creation of a specific law regulating participation in the income of the Autonomous Community and clarifying the homogenisation provided for in the various budget laws that give rise to the annual count and the criteria for distribution. Even so, various technical improvement measures are proposed. Obviously, we are going to support the Socialist Party's parliamentary initiative that transfers this proposal to the House, which the municipalist tides have already voted in favour of the Fegamp. We do so because we fully share the need to continue with the process of decentralization of public administration. And that means more competences and resources for the administrations that are closer to the reality of the country, the needs of citizenship. We will vote in favour, although, as the spokesperson for the BNG, we also think the proposal is short. Even more: the effects of the proposal, if approved, would be of little relevance, if not counterproductive, if the current financial and legal architecture is not changed. The amendment to Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution brought about a radical change in the definition of budgetary priorities. The absolute priority is to pay the debt... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Lake Peñas addresses the presidency of the House.]] Could you tell them to shut up for a moment, please?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u62	I don't hear much noise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u63	I do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u64	You're upset, yeah. If you're upset, I'm telling you, I didn't hear a lot of real noise, but if you're upset, I ask you to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u65	Yeah, it bothers me. The amendment to Article 135 was intended to give priority to paying to banks and investment funds and to leaving citizenship. This first step in a budgetary policy focused on control and spending cuts came along after Law 2/2012, of budgetary stability and financial sustainability, and the following year under Law 27/2013, of rationalization — I don't know why they called it that — and of the sustainability of the local administration. This law, the Montoro Law, has undergone an unprecedented cut of competence, a setback in the services provided by the municipalities and an iron discipline which limits to the extreme the capacity of the municipalities' spending. Supposedly, the purpose of the law was to adjust the functioning of local administrations to the economic environment under the pretext of waste disposal, overlap of competences and financial non-compliance. However, the effects that have actually occurred were a significant decrease in public services provided by local authorities, an increase in privatization with its consequent increase in administration costs and a reduction in municipal competences. The law introduced substantial changes in the functioning of the municipalities, amputating democratic guarantees of representation and citizen participation, cutting social services provided in the municipalities in a satisfactory manner and thereby attacking local autonomy, as even stated by the Constitutional Court. Against all this, In Marea, the Confederal Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podem-En Marea presented on 4 October 2016 a bill that included with the support of the major municipalities of the country: Madrid, Barcelona, Zaragoza, Valencia, Cádiz, La Coruña, Ferrol, Santiago de Compostela... A proposal that seeks to prioritize the criterion of administration closer to citizenship as a guarantee of universality, better territorial coverage, quality and democratic control in the provision of public services. And for all this it is necessary to remove the unnecessary safeguards introduced by the Montor Law and to move forward in the formulation of a new local funding system. But, above all, the Montoro Law is the law of the discipline of expenditure, of the limitation of the management capacity of the municipalities, a law that requires preventive custody, which places the local administration under strict control of the Ministry of Farm; something that violates the constitutional guarantee of local autonomy. A law that was unacceptable when it was passed, but which becomes splendour at the moment. Local administration is the only one that has budgetary balance in aggregate terms, with many municipalities that have already closed their accounts with surpluses. Dislodged the bad rulers, without corruption and with good practice, many municipalities are reducing debt and local government surpluses are contributing to the reduction of the public deficit. And yet the application of the expenditure rule of the Montoro Law leads to the absurdity, to which municipalities that have surpluses, which are reducing debt and which comply with payment deadlines, cannot allocate those available resources and improve the provision of services and improve the life of citizenship. This is what Article 32 of Law 2/2012 states: "In the event that the budgetary liquidation is in surplus, it is intended to reduce the level of net indebtedness". Montoro is an apprentice of the Troica, he threatens, intervenes municipalities, imposes sanctions on local governments who prefer to devote surpluses to improving public services and not paying the debt in advance. The world backwards. From 2011 to 2017, the public debt of the central government of the austere Montoro, of the great Montoro manager, increased by 375,880 million euros. In six years the central government debt increased by 60%. In this same period, the municipalities reduced their debt to 13,440 million euros, 30% less debt. Of these figures, of these EUR 13,440 million less, EUR 3,803 million correspond to the Madrid Council; a municipality intervened by Montoro — an intervention that was used to send a message to all public administrations of the state — a council intervened despite the fact that in only three years of decent government it was able to reduce its indebtedness by 40%. How did they do it? Simple recipe: it's enough to end Punica, it's enough to finish Lezo, it's enough that grenades are in jail, it's enough that Ignacio González is out in jail, it's enough that Marjalisa has stopped being an intermediary. [[Applause]] Without corruption, decency and good management, debt has been reduced by 40%, not with clippings. For all this, we will vote in favour as a first step towards ending the asphyxiation, with the extortion suffered by the municipalities, but this first step only opens a path that must necessarily continue with the derogation of the financial and regulatory architecture imposed by the Troica, applied now by Montoro and tomorrow by those who replace it in the next government crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u66	Thank you, Mr. Lago. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. What things do you sometimes hear here, really, gentlemen? The Atlantic plot, which is now dedicated to the purchase and real estate business, tells us other examples, and in full trial of the ERE the PSOE talking to us about the Andalusian example. What's wrong with Parliament? In the end, at his initial exhibition, Mrs. Rumbo, he made us an interesting, unnecessarily novel storytelling, rarely objective and for moments unbelievably partial. [[Applause]] Every time we talk about this topic of the relations between autonomous administration and municipalism, I don't know whether it's guided by an excess of nostalgia, it's about you building an idyllic account of the relationship between the Greek municipalities and the Bipartite, of which you were director of local administration. Idilius that was not perceived as such by an important part of the local Welsh tissue. Because, Your Honor, it is true at that time there were many meetings, great promises and important commitments, but the only fruit of all this was an ingenious number of photos, an enormous feeling of frustration and a very high degree of non-compliance. The administration that replaced it is true that it did not enjoy the same economic goodness as it accompanied you during its four years of government, so that government, the current government, chose to reduce the number of photos, replace promises by sincere dialogue and materialize commitments by replacing protocol signatures with budget items. It's not so shiny, but it's much more useful for the municipalities. It is true that the local government has been asking for a long time to improve its funding, to improve its funding, and, in particular, since the arrival of the economic crisis, which has seriously reduced its income. It is necessary to point out as a simple example that between 2007 and 2010 the collection obtained by the Greek municipalities by the construction tax, installations and works fell by 60%. And that objective circumstance has aggravated the financial situation of the municipalities, which has its origin in multiple variables, some related to the funding received by other administrations, others to the low collection efficiency of the municipalities themselves, as it points out a report that I suppose you will know, since it makes it a group of what is a member of its spokesperson, and which points to that efficiency in a –25% state average; and also by a historical trend to become the municipal district of the public administration's chess box, sometimes by the delegation of other administrations and others on your own will in view of what was an endless budgetary spring. But circumstances change, spring isn't eternal, and it must also be acknowledged that when the cold winter came, the Greek municipalities knew how to stand up and make complicated decisions to ensure their financial viability. I'm going to point out that the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo was also up to the circumstances, and he was next to those municipalities becoming his faithful ally. And that statement is based on real data. Mr Rumbo said that the executive spends less resources on the Local Fund than the Bipartite did. It could be explained easily because it is calculated on a percentage of chapters I, II and III of the general budget of the Union, which, of course, has decreased. But unfortunately for you, Mrs. Rumbo, I don't have to explain that minority from the bottom, simply because it's not true. I understand that in the parliamentary debate each one reaches his sardine, but manipulating the data as grossly as you did doesn't seem serious. Because to make comparisons, Mrs. Rumbo, you have to do them between equal magnitudes. And you compare the whole background during the Bipartite with a part of the background right now. What magnitudes do you want to compare, Your Honor?, the background or the total background? I don't care. Baseline 2008, 104 million; 2018, 112 million. Total fund 2008, 119 million; 2018, 125 million. Don't lie, Your Honor, don't lie, please. Because despite the coming down of the board, the bottom count has remained; more so: it has increased by 6 million euros over that year. [[Applause]] And this, keeping at all times the minimum counts they had before and contributing 21 million more euros to what you would have had to do the calculation according to the formula you yourself set. Once I've clarified this, I'm going into your proposal. A legislative proposal whose main novelty is the creation of the Galician Local Participation Fund, the Local Fund, announced in Article 2. "The Galician Local Participation Fund is created," you say; to tell us after that fund has been created for over fifteen years. It's certainly a curious novelty, Mrs. Rumbo! Even so, I must admit that being this is the main novelty, it's not the only one, not even the most surprising one. The most surprising is the methodological proposal. And I'm not referring to the methodology selected to determine the annual amount of the "new background" -- let me say the quote -- nor to the methodology chosen to establish the distribution formula between the municipalities. By the way, 313 municipalities, Mrs Rumbo. Since we're going to debate the funding of the municipalities, it would be nice if at least we agreed on the number of the Greek municipalities; it's not 314 as it says in your proposal, it's 313. I know you don't like mergers, but I assure you, some of them did happen even though they were. I was really surprised by the methodology you chose to consensualize this proposal with Fegamp: telepathy. Because you in the plan talk about dialogue and consensus. In the previous initiative they asked who the Greek Government had talked to; who did you speak to, gentlemen? It seems to us that a reasonable request is made for a matter as important as this one, and I suppose for you too, but it turns out that at the Fegamp they don't know anything about this proposal. Two months after the Fegamp Executive Commission approved the document you referred to in your proposal, you registered your proposal. Ten months later you have the debate in this chamber. And in a full year, in 12 months, didn't you find a moment to present this project to the Fegamp? You will understand that it surprises us that the great additions to the consensus were unable to take the trouble, I say not to agree with the representatives of the Greek municipality, but even to take the trouble to show it to you. Consensive, ladies and gentlemen. If you had talked to Fegamp, maybe someone could have told you about the agreement reached at the meeting between the president of the board and the president of the board at the meeting held on January 9, 2017. At that meeting, the president of the Socialist Fegamp requested: "A meeting of the Galician Local Cooperation Commission to work on the drafting of the new Basic Law of the local Galician regime, still aware of the need to wait for the reform of state law. The aim of the leader of the Greek municipality is that the future legislation collects both the competences of the municipalities and the funding required." Your Honor, even Mr Bará and Lake have agreed, although they are curiously going to vote the opposite of what they defend. It seems a sensible approach to what Fegamp says: to know with which funding we will count the autonomous communities and the municipalities, and once we have approved the new financing model because we establish the formula for the provision of public services in Galicia, how we distribute the resources available to provide them. It's exactly the same approach we made in the Law of urgent measures derived from the Law of Rationalization, supported, by the fact, by the Fegamp—then they weren't interested in—adopted by this parliament and fiercely demolished by you. That's right, though later on, they copied absolutely all the autonomous communities in which you ruled, all of them. In the Committee of Experts set up for autonomous financing, one of the star proposals is the integration of the whole of VAT and special taxes into a fund called horizontal level, so that the current territorialised participation in those taxes would disappear from these resources. This would suppose that they would no longer be income from Chapter II of the Community, and would refer to it as a transfer from Chapter IV. Therefore, they would be out of the base of your proposed background calculation. As a consequence: with your proposal, if you apply it definitely explodes, it would diminish the contents of the background. Does that seem reasonable to you? Does it seem reasonable to you to close this question without knowing what will be the characteristics that will affect and condition funding both autonomous and local? Ladies and gentlemen, why don't you respect the Fegamp president's approach? What's wrong, Alfredo García is the new Andrés Díaz of Greek socialism? Because it seems that every time a socialist doesn't follow the guidelines that come from the south he had to cut his head off. The sin of the former secretary of the Pontovés Organization was to disagree with the beloved leader, and rolled his head around. What is Mr. Garcia's sin?, dialogue with the Union?, reaching agreements? Is it mandatory to invent conflicts with the image and likeness of the supreme leader? I don't think so. I think it would be very good for Galicia that in our community the executioner has continued to be just a river and not a political leader who insists on playing, whether water, administrations or his own party. I believe that the Greek municipalities deserve financial regulation that is useful, that it be clear, that it be consensual. And it's obvious that this is not, and that you didn't even agree with it with your representatives at the Fegamp. So it is clear that we are not going to support it, for all these reasons I have just explained to you. With regard to the position of the Nationalist Parliamentary Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group, it is simply incomprehensible. You agree that before addressing this change in the Local Fund, you have to know what is the financial situation that will arise from the negotiation of the new national financing model. But in spite of this, they are going to vote in favour of the immediate use of this law. His incoherence, really, is very surprising. How do I think the Greeks do demand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u69	...coherent behaviors of your politicians, because we're going to try to get at least from the majority group in this chamber to get a little common sense, and they're going to understand that if you have internal problems, because this is not the most appropriate forum...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u71	...to solve them. If you don't respect the opinion of the president of Fegamp, at least we will if we do. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u72	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Replica, author group of the bill, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. First, thank you, Mr. Bará Torres and Mr. Lake Peñas, and your parliamentary groups. Although we agree with you that at best this funding is really insufficient, we believe it is good to have a start, a starting point for the Galician Union to start taking local administrations seriously and equipping the municipalities with the means to develop its competences in terms of quality. We also believe that it is the beginning so that the Galician Union will stop protecting the municipalities in the implementation of their budgets and establish that it will cease to increase the obligations of the municipalities without reaching the resources necessary to develop them. By the way, it has recently been approved in this chamber to address the State so that it would be allowed to reinvest the remainder of the municipalities — something which Mr. Lago Peñas referred to — according to the Fegamp and the FEMP. And the opposition groups don't know what terms this is in; I don't know if they've lost their hands in the state or they're quiet so that nothing happens, we don't know what's the reason. [[Applause]] But, Mr. Pazos Couñago, the data is what they are, what they are, what they are published, what they are not questionable. And I'm going to tell you one thing: I was the CEO of Local Administration as we rule in the Galician Union; you're ruling, and you don't follow the CEO. So I don't know what you have to tell me. [[Applause]] Yeah, give me back the data. You can't tell me that the Local Cooperation Fund in 2018 is 125 million, because that's a lie. I remind you that the Local Cooperation Fund in 2000 has decided to be a non-finalist fund, and you devote the fund to almost EUR 113 million non-finalist fund. So that's what the Local Cooperation Fund is. Look, Mr. Pazos Couñago, you speak of the Fegamp, but the Fegamp facilitates this data and I have written — when I want to see it — the punctuations made by the Fegamp to this bill. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows the House a brochure with graphic columns.]] So you don't come here to lie and say things that aren't. For the Fegamp!, when you want me to show you. And repeat it again: PSdEG-PSOE increases the Local Cooperation Fund EUR 87.4 million; Popular Party, EUR 7 million minus each year. So they stop noticing — as I told you earlier — the order of 52 million euros in the ten years in which the People's Party governs. But since you were talking about the 313 municipalities -- which is true that I was wrong, but I've already told you from there that sometimes we've been wrong, few, but some yes, and we assume -- I'm going to make a comparison to see what level we're on, and to see what resources we're getting to Galicia's Town Councils: Provincial Deputation of the Coruña: 92 municipalities, single plan of the Town Councils 72 million in 2018, which in 2017 reached 90 million euros; i.e. unconditioned funds almost one million euros to the Town Councils. I'm speaking, Mr Pazos Couñago. [[Interruptions.]] Do you know how close Galician Union is to 313 municipalities? [[Murmurs.]] Well, 113 million. You do the math yourself. We're talking about the fact that the Coruña Parliament triples funds for the municipalities. Deputy of Pontevedra: 63 municipalities, 42 million euros. Provincial Deputy of Lugo: EUR 20 million. That's the data. And by the way, in the House of Ourense what they have are only aids, nominative agreements with certain municipalities, while in the rest of the Members where the Socialist Party governs — and not laughs — that is minimal, Mr Pazos Couñago. [[Murmurs.]] Look, as much as you scream...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u74	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u75	...I'll tell you again, that you are advertising and propaganda. We never use the lie, they're all data and they're all...... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u76	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u77	...contrastable data...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u78	Silence! Peace, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u79	...you did not overwrite any of the data presented here. When I can beat them up, come here... No, sorry, what you said wasn't true, it wasn't at all true, Mr. Pazos Couñago. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Anyway, I'm using the word. I mean, bring real data, those published, and then we'll keep talking about it. We, the PSdeG always bet on municipalism, the facts are there. Yes, yes, yes, Local Cooperation Fund. You guys, less and less. And they want more and more to protect the Greek municipalities. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u80	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. We shall proceed to the vote. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u81	We shall vote on the legislative texts. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the amendments to the full refund to the Bill, which amends Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on Galician health. Voting amendments to the whole refund, submitted by the GG. PP. of the Galego Nationalist Block, the Galician Socialists and En Marea, to the Bill of Law amending Law 8/2008, of 10 July, of Galician Health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u82	I don't know if we should vote separately, the lawyer will say. Are they to be voted separately, or are they, together? [[Pause.]] We can vote together, so the amendments are rejected as a whole, and therefore the law continues with its proceedings. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I didn't understand, but if you tell me the lawyer that you can vote together, we vote together, and the law follows its process. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you want, we do it again by voting group by group. Do you agree, then, the groups? Well, perfect! [[Affirmation.]] We are now voting on the proposal for a law, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, which regulates the participation of local authorities in the tributes of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, regulating the participation of local authorities in the tributes of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38 The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this bill is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u83	Open the doors, please. We move on to point 2, of appearances at Pleno. Opinion of the Economic, Employment and Industry Adviser, on his own request, on the presentation of the Galicia Innovation 2020 Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u84	The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Abraham Lincoln said that the best way to predict the future is to build it, an idea that perfectly defines the decision that Galicia made in full economic recession when, far from waiting for what the future would encounter us, we decided to bet on a change of production model, a change of production model based on talent and knowledge. And it was a decision that, as you know, came from the debate with the agents involved in the R & D+i system and also from the approaches that transferred us to citizenship. It was a decision that meant and meant Galicia's commitment to be a reference to innovation and therefore to be stronger in the competences that were included in the Strategy of Smart Specialization. I'm talking about the innovative management of natural and cultural resources, the design of a future Galician industrial model, Industry 4.0, and also the adoption of a healthy model of life that places emphasis on older people as well as on food. In fact, through RIS3 we are fulfilling our goals, developing more than 1,900 innovation projects since 2014 that are mobilizing about 60% of the funds planned by 2020, from a public investment reaching EUR 504 million. And we're doing it with whole projects, whole projects that mark the difference from where Galicia wants to go. We're talking about the technological and industrial pole of unmanned Rozas vehicles, which consolidates an aeronautical sector with a great future in Galicia. We are talking about the 4.0 industry projects that are developing PSA and Televés, so that their intelligent manufacturing models, both in the automotive sector and in the ICT sector, are in Galicia. [[Peugeot-Citroën-Opel]] We're talking about the first Welsh incubator of new drugs, which is developing the Janssen Group and the Kertor Foundation. And we also talk about the thirty joint research units, led by companies that are leaders in their respective sectors and are developing specific lines of innovation in Galicia. They are all examples that prove the commitment to make R+D+i in Galicia and to make this R+D+i a strategic factor in the present and future of the Greek economy, both in the strategic sectors and in the emerging sectors. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, there's no going back. Galicia wants and can innovate, and the steps taken have already reflected in the statistics, research statistics, where the Greek agents doubled the funds collected in the Horizon 2020 programme with regard to the previous framework programme of the European Union. We're talking about R & D investment statistics, an investment that grew in Galicia more than 7.5 % between 2013 and 2016, overcoming by 6 points the growth of the state as a whole and, more importantly, growth in R & D investment that companies make — with an increase of 11.2% — as well as a growth in the investment carried out by the Public Administration — which in this case grew by 17.7%. It's also a remarkable improvement in companies' investment, especially in investment in technological innovation, where the increase was 9.3%, which means eight points above the state average. So now is the time to reinforce this reality by giving new impetus to the strategy to offer Galicia new opportunities that are open to us in the field of innovation, and above all so that Galicia can move forward to the challenges of an increasingly competitive global economy. This is precisely the new Galicia Innovation 2020 Plan, which I present to you today in this House, a presentation that follows the report on the twenty-day Board of Directors and also the beginning of its debate among the leading agents of the Greek R & D+i system, which began on January 29. Today, with the same objective, we bring it to this House, with the aim of opening precisely a process of dialogue and, therefore, that this Galicia Innovation 2020 Plan may be a shared and consensused sheet before its adoption by the Council of the Union. I speak of a shared strategy because the Government understands that the objectives of this Galicia Innovation 2020 plan should also be shared by the different parliamentary groups. We believe that in this House we can develop a debate and consensus on the needs that Galicia has in order to improve its competitiveness, to improve its innovation and, ultimately, to improve the positioning of our productive fabric on international markets; targets that have to result in the generation of qualified employment and also a direct impact on Galicia's social well-being. These are the objectives and, therefore, this is the vision of the Galicia Innova 2020 Plan that we have come to present today to try to work in Parliament on this shared strategy. The important thing for the Galicia Innovation 2020 is that we are not starting from zero. This plan already takes into account the results of the previous R & D+i plans, in particular the I2C programme, which involved the mobilisation of about EUR 2 billion. The I2C programme — which, they recall, in 2011 focused its efforts on providing our research centres with the best infrastructures — was a plan primarily focused on infrastructures; in particular, 41% of Plan I2C resources were destined to strengthen the capacities of the Welsh R & D+i, with investments in the singular centres and consolidated strategic groupings, through the CITIC, Citius, Cimus, Atlamentic, Ciqus, Cinbio or Ecimat, and also with investments in university campuses of excellence, through the Campus Vida and Campus Terra, University of Santiago; the Campus Mar and CREA, University of Vigo; and the Industrial Campus of the University of Coruña; and finally also with investments in technological centres such as CATAG, Anfaco-Cecopesca, Aimen, or the Aerotransportada de Rozas. In that Plan I2C, 26% of the investor effort was destined to generate and retain investigative talent. More than 800 grants, both pre- and post-doctoral, and also for innovation agents in companies, with 9 finalists in ERC calls, so Galicia is currently the sixth community in number of people engaged in R & D activities, and with an increasing rate of private sector researchers, which is growing about 6%. Finally, Plan I2C devoted 33% to promoting research and entrepreneurship. Efforts have been made to stimulate collaboration between companies and research centres through programs such as Connecta Peme, which mobilizes investments for more than 100 million euros in 133 cooperation projects, and whose new edition with 27 million euros will be published in the Official Journal of Galicia on Thursday, 8 February. But Plan I2C also included financial instruments through venture capital, with which we have invested 7 million euros in 21 innovative projects, the Start Programme, which we have allocated 2 million euros to support 7 projects, as well as the new Innovative Financial Instruments Programme, of the new Feder framework 2014-2020, which has a specific line at the disposal of innovative projects and which was launched at the end of last year, in which we have already approved 2 projects that account for a total investment of more than 1.2 million euros, corresponding to Hydrofersa and Torus Software companies, for the evolution of their technology. With these credentials and the results of Plan I2C, Galicia's new plan of R+D+i will continue to deepen on the projects and on the consolidation of the capacities that we have developed among all of us. But, above all, the differential element of the Galicia Innova 2020 Plan is that this plan will highlight people. The new Galicia Innova Plan will prioritize investments in people, boosting their research, knowledge and transfer, boost companies and sectors in which these people work and it will be a definitive bet on talent. Galicia can and should take this step towards R & D+i because we've been laying foundations for years to improve our system, and also to achieve a greater competitiveness among all that allows us to move forward and offer solutions to the challenges that this society, in continuing transformation, is demanding us. Finally, an Innovation 2020 Galicia Plan that will focus on people, which will focus on talent and, ultimately, on the differential element, on an increasingly interconnected and increasingly competitive global economy. Galicia Innova 2020 will ultimately mark a policy focused on goals that consolidate the goals marked by RIS3, which will also update the tools to strengthen public-private collaboration so that our ecosystem can be open and also with international vocation; tools that aim to respond to three challenges: firstly, to enhance scientific-technological research that takes place in Galicia, to improve the transfer of that knowledge created by the agents of the R+D+i ecosystem, and also to achieve the return of investments to society and that we can therefore count on a sustainable science and innovation system. To meet these challenges, Galicia's 2020 efforts are growing in three major areas of action: knowledge, talent and business innovation. They will have cross-sectional projects and programs all the departments of the Galician Union precisely to strengthen the system set of R+D+i through a sustainable, efficient and highly impactable model; projects and programs that go right now to outline, precisely with that desire to share proposals with the different groups of this House, which allow us to improve the content of the plan and give a concrete response to the needs of the agents of the R+D+i system. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia must be able to generate knowledge of excellence and specialized knowledge. We'll get it through measures that aim to strengthen research and our R & D by putting value on the work done by our researchers and technologists. We'll do it through a new program of excellence from the technology centers and also boosting the singular research centers. We will prioritize research in strategic areas of our community, such as Industry 4.0, the agri-food sector, the sea sector, renewable energy, sustainable forest exploitation or health aid. And we will move forward in research programs related to the circular economy and climate change, which are the two major social challenges that we also have towards the future. And all this effort will be accompanied by a series of complementary measures to encourage the transfer of knowledge and, therefore, to develop a new program of valorisation of results focused on stimulating startups as the main measure of innovation transfer, stimulating the work of the university professor and also a specific training program to improve the management capacities of the people responsible for the centres and research units. Secondly, we are aware of the value that in today's society has talent, and above all, innovative talent. That's why we want to make all possible means available to researchers to make that concern a profession and, therefore, to support that talent, both from education and business and research. The plan will therefore facilitate the tools needed to capture and retain talent from all ages and spheres. We'll act between youth, entrepreneurs, professionals and researchers. Between youth we will promote the vocation of STEM, which, as you know, seeks to boost curiosity about science and technology in an early manner, and therefore strengthen innovative potential in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. We will support entrepreneurs with comprehensive programs of acceleration and excellence, which will also have new resources for advanced experimentation or the creation of prototypes, and will support professionals so they can develop their experience and knowledge in new initiatives, both through a new programme of industrial doctoral and senior talent program to incorporate consolidated trajectory researchers into companies and technology centres. Finally, we will ratify our commitment to researchers through the continuity of pre- and post-doctoral aid, as well as the continuity of the Oportunios, Start or Joint Research Units. Finally, as a third step of action, we want to bet on the innovative leadership of both large and medium-sized enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, the private sector has to play a prominent role in the development of Welsh R & D. And I have to work together from the administration so companies can see in Galicia an attractive place to invest and therefore an attractive place to develop R & D+i projects and for the industrialization of these processes. We want more innovative pemmes and that pemmes innovate more, and that's why we will continue to promote financial and innovative instruments, programs to promote tax incentives to R & D+i and also bet on venture capital. We will continue to lead nationally the use of innovative public procurement. And we will also act, in collaboration with companies, identifying key areas where Galicia aspires to be a European referent on the lines marked by the Strategy of Smart Specialization. I am talking about the aviation sector — with the aim of Galicia being a European referent in unmanned aviation — about bio-economics — to continue to advance in future drugs and so that the agri-food sector can also lead innovation at the state level — and I am talking about Industry 4.0 — because we want to continue to take steps in intelligent manufacturing and equipping sectors such as automotive and naval sectors with the best possible framework to develop their competitiveness. Business innovation, where it plays a key role in our ability to sell to the world, will be another important element, and that's why we work in a design promotion program, because in design it will be one of the distinguishing elements of innovation. Precisely the Galician Innovation Agency is collaborating with the Design for Innovation initiative, for which we have launched an open call to identify successful design cases in Galicia in any area, whether industrial, graphic, fashion or branding. Ladies and gentlemen, with the launch of the projects and programmes of these three areas of action, along with the actions that can be incorporated, our goals are quantified in the Galicia Innovation 2020 Plan. The goal is to reach 10,400 R & D-related workers, with a growth of 10%, double the percentage of R & D spending, achieve 120 million euros in return on the horizon 2020, reach 1,000 innovative companies in technological activities, with an increase of 15%, increase business spending in innovation to 600 million euros, and also increase 10% of business volume by new products or improved products. They are goals that can only be achieved through a model of public-private collaboration where collaboration between the administration and the private sector is the driving force behind the various projects that can be promoted in Galicia, and which, therefore, enables us to have an open, international and intelligent innovation ecosystem. That is why Galicia Innova 2020 proposes a new model of dynamisation and collaboration to move forward in this direction. Galicia will promote digital innovation PAHs, digital innovation PAHs that will group and specialize in R & D+i ecosystem agents, research centres, universities, pemes, large companies, startups, clusters, incubators, investors and, of course, the Public Administration; digital innovation PAHs that will allow the provision of services to create business value, to allow knowledge and also to facilitate access to finance, and that will finally allow Galicia to take advantage of the capabilities it has to develop the technological potential of its industrial fabric. Our experience, ladies and gentlemen, has shown us that when the Administration, the industrial fabric and the knowledge centres work together for the same purpose, Galicia always improves its results. And in the field of innovation, that's the way. I'm done. The path through the development of the Smart Research Strategy and the execution of Plan I2C gives us reasons to be optimistic about future challenges. Thanks to Galicia's ability to anticipate new challenges and create an innovative culture, today we have the infrastructure needed to generate ideas, knowledge and value, to turn it into solutions with the potential to compete in the global market and also to ensure the return and sustainability of the R+D+i system. With the new Galicia Innovation 2020 plan, we therefore take a step forward, a step forward so that Galicia will have a more diversified, more productive and more positioned economy in which companies, centres and entities that belong to will grow through more innovation, which will result in a society with better prospects for the future where innovative talent will have all the facilities to develop its work. Ultimately, the future depends on what we do today, and today Galicia is pushing this plan to be a winner of a future with more quality, more well-being and, above all, more opportunities. I hope, therefore, that in the replica of the political groups can be added with that spirit of consensus and with that constructive spirit to identify which are the best measures that can be added and that can be incorporated into this Plan Galicia Innovation 2020, which will allow you to mark a shared strategy for our R & D+i system and our business fabric to find the tools and measures needed to improve R & D, to improve innovation and the transfer of knowledge, and ultimately to be more competitive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u86	Thank you very much, Counselor. We now turn to the parliamentary groups. You have the floor by the BNG Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u87	Good morning, ladies. Mr. Count, first of all, we have to tell you with all honesty that this is a plan that is late for us, for you have failed your own planning, which in the eyes of the Galician Nationalist Block does not cease to be a further demonstration of your improvisation policy, which moves the coup d'étuteurs. Of course, the bet on knowledge has not been a priority in its government agenda. You were now talking a lot about the previous plan, Plan I2C, and you said it was the solid basis on which the new program is based. But he forgot — and I'm going to do it now — that his expected end-of-work date was December 2015. Even though Article 18 of the Innovation Act, Law 5/2013, points out that the plan must be reviewed annually, this German Parliament has neither participated nor had any knowledge of this review. And here we are, two years later. If you really want dialogue, we'll take the glove. But we also have to say that we have been in this RIS3 strategy for two years, and we have not been part of the parliamentary groups, and for two years, Galicia has continued to lose its chances and has continued to fall into different indicators, to which I will refer. It was two years, in addition, in which exactly you did not offer dialogue, because you rejected each and every one of the proposals which, for example, this parliamentary group launched both to promote the consolidation of the research career and to increase the investment effort in R & D+i. So if you want dialogue, you'll have it, but the starting point for us is not good. It's not good anymore because you come up with a plan that doesn't involve any qualitative change, which is disappointing and lacks credibility with respect to budgetary commitments. You have transferred us to this House a very nice power point -- we thank you -- but, of course, from your reading we don't see that there is any rigorous and detailed analysis of what the previous plan had to say. Nor is a deep X-ray of whether or not what has been recorded at other times has been fulfilled or not a serious and compartmentalized proposal of budgets in the medium and long term. So, for us, this is a plan that is born of itself eevado, because there is a lack of rigorous evaluation of what I have put under the previous plan and of what they have assumed the cuts that their government has applied in times of crisis to innovation in this country. So that document that you call "management balance", that you call "balance" and that is worth six photographs, six infographics with a series of data, because for us it's absolutely insufficient. Besides, from his reading, and also from his appearance, it turns out that everything is all right and that little or nothing has to change. And, of course, we have made a different reading from the analysis of recent years, beginning with the finding of the absolute lack of investor effort on the part of the Board of Galicia, of the lack of self-investment effort. Because in the recession years you've just cut these games, and now that we've passed the recession phase, you don't seem to be committed to analyzing the consequences of these cuts or making efforts to compensate for what they might have assumed for the Greek innovation system. Far from that, what they do is they play with confusion, with confusion of figures. So you're both computing specific investments in the innovation programme area as well as dealing with things from other councils or like other state or European programs. And it's true that innovation has to be transversal, it's true, but you have to clarify and render accounts specifically what is done from your consulting and from the innovation program, because otherwise we're confusing transversality with opacity. And you say, for example, that they invested 1,102 million euros in innovation. But by dividing the programme of function 54, by dividing budgets over the last six years, we would have to have an investment for each year of more than 184 million euros. And, of course, if we analyze innovation in budgets, we see the opposite, we see that in recent years, in the Feijó era, we have accumulated a cut in innovation of more than 149 million euros. You should at least explain what program that investment is going to be given and so perhaps overcome the lack of credibility that they have for us. Because you, in addition, always have the vice to talk a lot about mobilization and quite little of the recognized obligations on living credit. And that's interesting -- because you talked so much about statistics -- when we go to the level of budgetary concretion, of execution. Of course, you came here boasting that they grew up as soon as the execution. Man, of course!, it's that in some year — like 2011 — they were at 60%. That it has increased in recent years and now has an average of 70% as it is not to applaud, because it is — as well as its advisor — the lowest means of execution in this country. This has resulted in important consequences in our innovative system, and reality is that the infrastructures and capacities in innovation have not been strengthened and strengthened, and that the new management model that you sponsored can be summed up in a new brain drain model. Because, for example, when staff see how R & D staff has fallen heavily in the Public Service and in higher education since 2009, they have fallen 17.6% and 14.7% respectively. A fall, in addition, more intense than in the state as a whole; another indicator more than we didn't even converge with the Spanish State. And the total R & D staff has also fallen by 6%. We could give these and other data, but, look, by talking about their appearance, seeing the document they came to us, I remembered that in December of this year there was a meeting in the Coruña, a meeting, the 8th Meeting of Young Foreign Researchers, held by the Biomedical Research Institute. And the truth is that these researchers and researchers have written a document with proposals and with a diagnosis that is absolutely demolition, and that you really should be taking as a guide to read; all of us, but, above all, you, who are directly responsible. Well, from this meeting, as it's complicated to talk about its conclusions in so little time, the truth is that I would be left with a headline that I saw in an interview that made them the newspaper La Voz de Galicia, which summarizes quite well how the panorama is for that brain drain that our country has lived. And he says, "I don't see anything easy going back to Galicia." Greek scientists abroad bet on a model like Catalan or Basque to capture talent. They were concerned that, in fact, this return of trained and technologist staff does not appear to be a priority in our government. It is clear that Galicia must have its own route, without meddling, but it is also clear that the current roadmap is not serving us. And that we can see in many more ways. And what do you offer them? What did you offer all these people this morning? Well, I think nothing new. He told us again about the Beginner Program, which is fine, but they don't say what it contains. This year there were 10,000 euros per investigator to hire, and that's a patch because it doesn't serve in the long term to stabilize the research career. He told us about the Opportunius Programme, which is also very interesting, but it is also true that we cannot trust everything to raise European funds. In fact, the above plan foresees that these funds could end up being reduced, and this plan does not even do so, nor does it even anticipate that issue, which will end up with the incorporation of new countries into the European framework. And the third proposal to stabilize staff and bring back personal is simply a headline: this senior talent program that has also begged Mr. Feijóo over the past few weeks but of what you haven't even been able to bring to us today is a date of budgeting or greater concretion. So it seems to us that they're not throwing a serious bet for changing their course and that they're consolidated in self-comprehensiveness and lack of ambition. The truth is, since the main impulse indicators of R+D+i have come down, I almost feel like inviting him to change his name to the plan and start calling him "Plan lack of ambition." Because also, given its goals in the document that moves us -- in the replica, I will go a little further into this -- in that document they put six points, six goals, which will have to be achieved by 2020. I've actually faced your reading with optimism, saying, well, we're finally going to have a series of objective measuring devices that allow us to see whether that plan is working or not. But the truth is, it's surprising that the degree of exigencies lowered it over the previous period. I mean, we're at a time of economic growth, we're at a time of greater budgetary possibility, and yet you're drawing back your goals. I'll focus on how long I have left, on one of them; and then, on the replica, I'll continue. I am particularly fascinated by the objective of spending on GDP, which is surreal. Because it seems that you are not happy that spending on R & D+i as a percentage of GDP had fallen since Mr Feijóo's arrival, who are not happy that the decline was more intensive than in the average of the state, who are not happy that they are also down in 2016 compared to 2015, but you are taking it and, if the initial target was in the previous plan was about 3% over GDP — which they then lowered at RIS3 to 2% over GDP — they are now down to 1.7% by 2020. So, honestly, we notice an important lack of ambition and we're worried that you say there's no going back. The truth is, we're optimistic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u89	...and we think that, despite the important loss of positions in certain indicators such as those I indicated, we have potential and capacity. In the reply we will make some proposals, but also in advance, Mr. Conde, that for us to go together there will have to be a real participatory process, not just this appearance and nothing more. And also, for us to get together, there will have to be clarity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u91	...on commitments, especially on budgets. Because without that, and absolutely computing all the investments on the planet that happen accidentally around here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u93	...we won't have anything at all. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u94	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counselor, poor Abraham Lincoln. The truth is I agree only on one thing with you: in changing the production model. He started with that question and I'm going to try to finish my intervention exactly by talking about it. Before I wanted to recommend it, let me recommend it, a book, if not known, called Start-up nation: the history of Israel's economic miracle. I think it's very fit. In addition to the Lonely Planet guide, it's good to see some other questions. For example, see a country which devotes 4.1 % of its GDP to R & D+i, 4.1 % compared to 0.86 % of Galician Union or 1.19 % of Spain. The truth is that you are recently very used to acronyms — I2C, RIS3, etc. —. I propose another, which is "3PP", which is: People's Party, power point and publicity and propaganda. And I put "3" for a matter of mathematical economy in formulation. [[Applause]] We must recognize the merit. Then I'll also talk about the mechanisms to achieve those merits. Because, look, they're able to sell, certainly, grow it. On that trip to Israel we were told how you and the president of the... I'm not going to buy it, I'm actually very proud of my baldness and that's why they don't sell me growing it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] They spoke, and they managed to put him in the press of this autonomous community, of his attendance and of President Feijóo to ourCrowd investment platform in Jerusalem. That, as far as I know — and I think I'm not well informed — is a platform that collects funds for Israeli startups, where mostly American Jews — not only — go financial to finance much of the innovative Israeli fabric. So, I would like very much, in this innovation process that we can already afford to export to Israel, Counsellor, who told us what were the Greek investors and what sectors they acted in those Israeli startups, which I think they were really anxious in Jerusalem, in addition to receiving the US embassy, to receive the Embassy from Galicia. You can't take hair from the citizens. I think it's good not to have hair on citizens. And we're moving on to the bibliographical revision now. And I started with the 2010-2014 Strategic Plan, which was the first star moment in which Mr. Feijóo's government spoke of R+D+i. At that time it was referred to 2014 as a horizon of 1.5 % of GDP in R+D+i. I am a little old and will basically use this indicator as internationally recognized indicator to analyze the impact or public and private efforts of a country, a country, a state, a nation, research, development and innovation; I insist, 1.5% of GDP. When we were discussing this in this Parliament, we said that it seemed a lot to us, that it was true. Data in 2014 remained at 0.88%. By the way, it came from 1.02% of the year 2009, and with a GDP that was currently coming down. With which I think it's quite easy to make the rule of three relevant. After that came, indeed, the I2C. We think that the assessment that is made at the power point that we've been through is excessively optimistic. Man, of course they did things. He's doing a pretty prolific R & D account for the German Government. Of course, they did things, they executed, between 2011 and 2016, 300 million euros. They did things. They forget to say they didn't run 120 million euros, i.e. 28.5%. I know it's multi-yearly, I know it's multi-yearly, yes, yes! I'm waiting for the final year of this multi-annuality, because I'm sure the budget execution will be 300%. I'm really looking forward to it. I don't know very well how it's done in terms of public accounting, but I'm looking forward to that multi-annuality. And I'm going to pick up an indicator that you pick up -- that is, I didn't look for it with a curse -- the famous Opportunius Program. You talked about it abundantly, he took photos in the press until the exhaustion. I believe that no one has been as mediated in this country as the researcher — by the way — legitimately; I suppose he has all the merits — who has achieved this integration contract in the German investigative system. But there were only two. The I2C, that program, the Opportunius, which was pages and pages, photos and photos and the opening of news on the Welsh TV, at last... overwhelming, but there were two returns. They're all right, eh! but, I insist, there were two returns, Counselor. So, it would be nice to repeat things, and put them on the scale they should be on. The data you count on R+D+i, as always, in relation to this I2C, has a problem. I keep saying: they mobilize. Look, I want the overall data of R & D+i on public and private GDP. Because that criterion of mobilization is a criterion, man!, a little - let me tell you - ethereal. I always say it, and you look at me with a face of surprise, but it is not academically defined, or at least this humble Member ignores the academic definition of mobilization. Then I know what you invest in the public domain, whether it's planned and executed. And, of course, if it appears collected in the statistics, I know what you're looking at in the private domain. But that of mobilization, at last, I think it needs to be further refined. Another central theme for us, which also, of course, is not neutral: innovative public purchase. This autonomous community — which we all know is the most developed in Spain’s R & D+i, more than the Basque Country, Navarra, Catalonia and Madrid — finally catches up with 40% of Spain’s innovative public procurement. There are two possibilities. There's a general framework, which is pure and purely ideological, and then there's two academically recognized possibilities. Innovative public procurement mechanisms in autonomous communities with limited power in research and innovation always move towards the private sector. Because what big companies get is to do with the innovative input or researcher that can generate the public tissue in that autonomous community and, of course, create added value. Where are you going to create Siemens added value with the innovative public purchase Sergas can do? In Galicia, Counselor? No, no, no, no. There must be a counterexample, but in general terms, no. Innovative public procurement is highly favourable for those territories that have a very powerful innovation ecosystem that allows these private companies to maintain value-added generation on the territory, and obviously it's not the case of Galicia, as much as you do in advertising, containing it and getting it out of newspapers every two days. And by the way, isn't it surprising to you that 40% of Spain's innovative public procurement is in an autonomous community with 5% of GDP? For me, really, it's pure and simple ideological strategy. I believe that there is no economic justification, given — I repeat — the innovation ecosystem of this country, which justifies this overwhelming preponderance of this system; that it may be very good for Finland or it may even be good for the Basque Country or Navarre. I don't think Galicia is, but I insist that maybe I'm wrong. Next bibliographic review: from the plan 2010-2014 we moved on to the plan 2015-2020, and, in fact, as the spokesperson for the Nationalist Block Galego, there was a process of slowing down. They started talking about 2% of GDP, which was a toast to the sun of such a caliber that soon after they were forced to reduce it to 1.7%, which is still a toast to the sun of absolute caliber. And the proof that it remains a toast to the sun of absolute caliber is that in January of this year, that is, less than a month ago, the People's Party voted against a non-law proposition of the Socialist Group that what it proposed with numerals, that is, by linking public spending in R+D+i to GDP growth, was to achieve that 1.7% now without any noise they plant us in the last sheet of the power point of rigor and tell us that this is the ultimate goal — Abraham Lincoln through the middle, production model change in the middle and what he needs — of the Government of the Unity of Galicia. I insist, not a month ago, half a month ago they voted against.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u97	It's over, Mr. President. So really, I think they have to be more prudent, they have to talk about numbers, they have to recognize where there are relative failures — not to say failures — and of course not tell us a mix of El Mago de Oz and Alice in the country of wonders, which is exactly what this power point is. That's right, adding a new age of universal fraternity and cosmic cohabitation with which, really, I was absolutely amazed. And I say it absolutely...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u98	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u99	...serious, because it's true that you have a poetic tone new act amazing. And, by the way, tell Mr. Fairy Counsellor that, although we were papacy, I think I remember...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u100	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u101	...when you say that the R & D expenditure of Galician companies is 500 million euros, it's taking off the bike.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u102	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u103	Because 500 million euros is public R & D spending plus private.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u104	Then they have another shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u105	Because, if not, 0.86% doesn't come out, except I don't know how to make rules of three. And I know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. Mr. Merlo Lorenzo has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u107	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Count, good morning. Reading the Innovation 2020 Plan produced a sensation of disbelief. But the worrying is not what produces it to me. The worrying thing is that people linked to the sector, which is what we should all be concerned about, people who work at the CTAG or the IEO, because they've produced a fan of sensations ranging from sadness to deep and deep indignation. I have the feeling, after seeing your intervention, that you're not very convinced either, nor do you agree with the whole presentation of this Innovation 2020 plan. What you are presenting to us today is basically an exercise of pure and hard marketing, of a lot of publicity. That's yes, very well macheted, with a very appropriate, very dynamic color choice, with a dynamic presentation and with which they try to numb and blind, with the inclusion of terms like "innovation", "talent", "investment" and giving a huge flow of data with which they often achieve the opposite effect of what they intended. We find here an example because quite good. I'll give you a couple of them. You do an exercise of mathematical demagogy and announce triumphals, including on page 4 of the power point — as the fellows mentioned — that Galicia is the sixth autonomous community in number of people dedicated to R & D, behind the Basque Country — which is clearly a reference in this matter — and beyond others such as Castile-A Mancha, Murcia or Aragon. But the reality behind these numbers is that Galicia has 0.34% of people dedicated to R & D activities per inhabitant, a figure that is lower than that of Castile-A Mancha — with 0.43% ratios—, Aragon, with 0.42%, and the light years of 0.82% of Basque Country, with which any day we're going to establish the comparative aggravating that it has, more or less, one person dedicated to R & D for every 121 inhabitants. And the important thing is to nuance, by the way, that the term " dedicated person" is not a perfect synonym for "investigator". Speaking of researchers, on the same page you enter the data of two, two pocket researchers, returned to Galicia. Mr. Conde, do you know how many researchers have gone in the last few years? That's something that's a little ridiculous. Often, you come up and get this data out because it's not the best way to try to sell a project. And so, everything else. Counselor, when you're in your position, you can make politics or you can let them do it. And what you can't leave, under any concept, is that those who tell you stories and the writing of stories do your stories, because that's what we're seeing here. Are you telling us that your approach, by 2020, will consist of that this project, which you're saying is going to conduct an estimated public investment in over 980 million euros, will you get 1,000 people employed in R & D-related activities? Of course, 1,000 jobs that will not be all new jobs may be mostly changes or changes in ownership of others already existing. But still, is €980 million to reach 135 new companies with innovative activities? Mr. Conde, what are companies with truly innovative activities? Anyway, look, they go out to 7 people per medium-sized company. And here these numbers don't lie, they're on the average of the other great examples of the one presented in the Innovation Plan 2020. For example, the one mentioned on page 7, the famous Rozas Technology Pole, which I already advance to you that we are not against it but rather about its use and what you are trying to transfer to it. For example, it will invest EUR 150 million in an activity such as the Phoenix Project — which you will know well — and which means the creation of six direct jobs, six! And they're your data, they're not my data, they're published on their pages. It's a project that, more or less, consists of the purchase, acquisition, acquisition of a plane, a C-212, which is going to be tunneled to use it as an unmanned aircraft. It is an important investment in marketing but with a very questionable return, given that the partner of the Board on this adventure is Babcock International Group, a British international company based in the United Kingdom that shares in the London stock exchange and which taxes in the United Kingdom; incidentally the same one that was made in 2014 with the Spanish airline Inaer, to which the Board sold our new rescue helicopters at a balance price to soon rent the old ones. Good business does this company at the expense of our pockets. I, out of prudence, wouldn't include it or boast of these achievements. I suggest you include an attachment where you define the ambiguous terms that are left in the drafting of this document. For example, we use as "people active in innovation", "innovative companies" etc. After all, Galicia has been legislated for a long time against misleading advertising, which may be where all this presentation falls. We believe that any strategic plan like this has to have a part of audacity and a certain degree of bet, a bet on the future. But, Mr. Conde, you're betting on our money, on the money of the Greeks and the Greeks. And their responsibility is to minimize the risks of the bet, to secure it. And that concerns us because it is not being translated into the presentation of this Innovation 2020 plan. He's giving evidence of a lot of questions. Look, why would I tell you this? Because there's a very worrying disconnection about reality. This project collects some of the demands reflected by many reports that have been in circulation since 2015 but leaves many others on the way. And when the need for innovation is a whole thing and we just pick up a part, half is nothing. And that's what we have here. You mean everything that comes up with this plan is wrong and it's not worth it? No, not at all. The analysis is good and the focus is good, but much more is missing, another important part is missing. What is it? For precisely the one in which we must strengthen and meet the demands and needs that move from the industrial and professional fabric to innovation, those that have been ignoring, as many policies, over the past nine years. This, without everything else, doesn't work. And the worrying thing is that you know it. You tell me that you know that because you're a person who has a background and an understanding of the subject. So I see that his lack of conviction is somewhat linked to this line. This Innovation 2020 would be possible in countries such as Germany or Belgium, where pemes already have a high degree of automation and there are decent wages. Do I have to remind you of the problem of Europe at both speeds? There are two different Europeans, it seems. Your group in the European Parliament has already put us in these theories. There's one Europe with acceleration and one that's this, it's Galicia, on time, and Spain, which we're in slow Europe, and we're on top of it, we're not even on the main track. The wages of Industry 4.0 have nothing to do with those of the Welsh industry. So, I don't think you think that talent goes away from the country to learn languages and see the world, as a leader of your party said. And I'm going to make an important shade: the average age of people who are dedicating themselves and running R & D research projects in Galicia is 53 years old, are senior researchers who already have baggage, training, which allows them to develop these types of projects. These are driven by economic factors, wages, investments, or lack of infrastructure, demand, or even projection of their work, which is not being valued and therefore go where they are valued. The other side of the coin is that of the new talents, the recently graduated juniors from the faculty that do their doctors, etc., and that they don't count on the expert guardianship of these senior researchers neither with the tools nor with the projects and that they can't creatively get out of their training. I am beginning to worry about the lack of rigour in the presentation of this Innovation 2020 plan. You guys are doing here basically is innovating and trying to sell a 4.0 low cost industry model, because it doesn't really fit in. Counsellor, I remind you that most of the Welsh peas don't count on the most basic levels of automation, they work with equipment -- some of them -- with more than thirty years of age. They're in "Industria 1.0" and I'm not saying it as a despicable aggravating. It's a reality that's there. They have no possibility of applying or developing their talent. They have no access to any help packages or grants that you announce year after year. They're not solving the problems of the Greek companies. To talk about efficiency and climate change, as is done in this project, when we really have some needs that are not being listened to at the earliest, is just looking for a handful of headlines and doing marketing, marketing and more marketing. And, look, I'm not going to argue about marketing, because I'd probably all of you. Here we should discuss policies. You tell us you want our support and so on. But you don't even believe what you're presenting here. This really isn't where to get it. In Galicia, there are companies that have been innovating for more than 20 years, contributing, to which they have only known how to put a stop to them and make them walk or close. And now you're dedicated to looking for companies in the world ahead, private, that innovate and invest; that's very good, but after you put poles on the wheels you left part of your resources, of your time, of your innovative capital and of your formation along the way. It was these companies, the ones that put us at the moment on the map of excellence and quality, the ones that are marching, the ones that are closing, the ones that are not listening, and that all they ask is that they let them do and don't put any more obstacles on them. Look, at this point, the profile of good managers you have in Galicia's PP has already become an urban legend that few already believe. That's the sadness. You spoke of Galicia as an attractive place for innovation and investment. You know the needs of high-capacity communications network infrastructures that require automation and Industry 4.0, in all sectors, from tourism to food and technology. It can't be done here. Unfortunately, 80 percent of the country does not have these high-capacity networks. So where is the attraction?...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u108	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u109	...where are the measures? I'm done. Mr. Count, I hope that now, in your second intervention, you return and recover the pragmatism and walk the path, the path, from rigor to put your feet back in reality. You are a man who has always tried rigor and criterion, and I have greatly missed that criterion in his first presentation. Stop trying to sell tonics in the Negev desert with Mr. Feijóo, come back to reality and we'll try to put real solutions to everything we're dealing with here, because otherwise Industry 4.0 will be a bluff and a word with no meaning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Merlo. Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. The truth is, it must be a good plan when the only one who criticizes is the power point of presentation of the plan and it must be a good plan when the opposition wastes 40 minutes in this forum to make no single proposal that can improve that plan. So, either they haven't read the plan or they just have nothing to contribute to the plan. Therefore, Counselor, I commend you on the plan, it must be well done when the opposition dissipates 30 minutes in that rostrum, and zero proposals in 30 minutes. Noraboa! [[Applause]] This is the opposition. Look, what do you criticize, opposition gentlemen? What exactly do you vote criticise, that Galicia is going to mobilise 1,775 million euros to modernise and make our economy more competitive? Is that what they criticize? Well... do you criticise Galicia want to improve its infrastructure and its R+D+i capabilities? Is that what they criticize? Critics that we want to consolidate a new model of research talent management? Is that what they criticize us? Are they critical that Galicia wants to convert innovation into the engine of economic and business growth? Look, I think you're critical of Galicia's functioning, you're critical of Galicia's growing, you're against Galicia's prospering, and you're against Galicia's trying to get at the best European economies. That's their complex, and that's why they criticize industrial development, business creation, investment capture or modernization of our productive sectors. They're against a plan that aims at reaching 10,400 workers linked to R & D on the horizon of this plan. They criticise that we want to double the percentage of R & D spending to reach 1.7 % of GDP by 2020; they are against; they are against reaching 120 million euros of return from 2020; they are against reaching 1,000 innovative companies in technological activities. They are also opposed to increasing business spending in innovation to 600 million euros. They're against everything. That's what happens to this opposition. Look, for criticism, they also criticize that investment in R & D in Galicia has increased between 2013 and 2016 by 7.5%, while in the state as a whole it grew by 1.9%. At the state level, 1.9 % and Galicia, 7.6%, and they're against it. And Mr. Abel Losada has to go to 2010, that's right, with 2,000 million less than you, who were fictional, remember? You're committed to going back to 2010, and we're committed to walking towards 2020. Forget, Mr. Losada, the Bipartite, those days nobody wants them anymore, just you. [[Applause]] You're a real nostalgic, that's the feeling I have. Look, the plan's getting late, they say from the Galician Nationalist Block. Look, the community framework has changed, and Galicia must recognize, Mrs. Presas, that it was one of the first communities in Spain to define its strategy of intelligent specialization; we were one of the first, of the first autonomous communities. Look, they criticize a consensual plan with the sector; because they criticize the Union, they criticize the entire Greek innovation ecosystem, universities, technological centres. Everyone's wrong. Only BNG is right. That's right, they lose votes; no one votes for them, but the BNG is in possession of absolute truth. And look, you're with an old-fashioned speech, rancio, the cuts. What are the cuts, Mrs. Noa Presas?, that the Galega Agency of Innovation grows or budgets in 2018 by 26%? Is that the cut you're concerned about? Look, the reality is that we have an opposition, Mr Counsellor — you must recognize it — very innovative, an opposition that is capable of challenging all economic logic. They think rising taxes stimulates the economy. This opposition believes that by putting administrative obstacles in place it favours the creation of companies. This opposition believes that rigid labour legislation creates jobs. They believe that, by closing companies, opportunities are created. That's your model. Look, I'm telling you, at least, you're very original, very innovative and very surprising, but your originality and your capacity for innovation, of course, does not interest Galicia at all. Counselor, do you know what one of the biggest problems Galicia has today? One of the biggest problems Galicia has is the opposition, an opposition that doesn't hesitate for a second to use the lie, the trap, and that they know a lot about these benches. Look, as there are no management arguments, because if we compare the management of the Galician Union that made nationalists and socialists, or the management that the Power Tides do where they rule, there's nothing to talk about, they only have to resort to the sad use of lies to try to deceive someone and try to distort reality. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember the real barbarities they said from these banks about the Law to promote the implementation of business initiatives? They said real barbarities. They called it "Galicia's Predation Law," they said that we wanted to sell Galicia to pieces, they said that reducing the deadlines for administrative procedures reduced security and environmental guarantees, they said that we wanted to skip the powers of the municipalities, they said that we wanted to convert Galicia to Katanga — Katanga! — they said that we wanted to establish a third-world economic system, they said we wanted to prevent the Greek labour market, they said that they would destroy jobs, they said we wanted to open the fence for eucalyptus planting, when in law there is not even the word "eucalyptus", that is a reality. Ladies and gentlemen, you've done politics, but bad politics, worst politics, worst politics! They don't have any scruples in lying to the Greeks and claims that in good faith they can worry about the situation of our community. And a few months later, what happened to that law that was so bad, so bad, so bad, that it was going to destroy Galicia? Well, to begin with, we have 18 new wind farms; a clean energy, and, as we know, Galicia has the capacity to be world-wide reference. I don't say so, tell him La Voz de Galicia's economic pages: "Galicia will have 18 wind farms more than two years before." [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira displays a photocopy of a page in the newspaper La Voice of Galicia.]] Law of business implementation of Galicia. [[Applause]] And to go on, it turns out that this law that was so bad, so bad, so bad, because it liked other parts of our country, it liked other communities. So much so, they copied the essence of this law. And who would it be? Man! for it would be an evil government of the People's Party in other communities, I say!, who would want to desert those communities. No, who copied Galicia's Business Implementation Act was the Valencian Community. And who rules in the Valencian Community? [[Laughter]] You know it well, you rule socialists, The Tides of Podemos -- but they're called otherwise -- and they're ruling nationalists too. Just the same ones that said all those barbarities here. But look, if you don't believe me, Mr. Sánchez, official press release by Géneralitat Valenciana, January 12, 2018: "The Council approves the Generalitat bill to create the investment point of attention." And what do you want with this law that deals there in the Valencian Community with your party friends? "Look, the objective of this bill"—textually speaking—is to enable the appropriate legal mechanisms and administrative measures necessary to promote business investment processes by simplifying procedures, removing administrative obstacles and reducing time limits, to facilitate entrepreneurship." Are you alone? Are you alone? The same objectives as our law. But let's go on, look: "The purpose of this law is to promote administrative simplification, minimizing administrative barriers affecting business investment or reinvestment processes, promoting inter-administrative collaboration..." Finally, to respond to the same problem we had in Galicia. Counsellor, what do you think would make an industry spokesman for any of the opposition parties who had a minimal consistency or at least an apex of sense of ridicule? I'm going to tell you: I'd go out to this same forum in your replica turn — you have the occasion now, I'd ask forgiveness, I'd apologize for lying to all the Greeks, and at least I'd promise not to do it again; I'd promise not to do it again, Mr. Lago. [[Murmurs.]] Or that, or it would be consequent and would also be protesting against his friends from the Valencian Community, Mrs. Monica Oltra, Ximo Puig, telling them that they want to destroy Valencia and that they want to sell for pieces that community, that they want to make an environmental coup and that their party partners actually want to convert the Valencian Community to Katanga, Katanga! [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, Counselor, don't wait for proposals from this bench, they're something else, they're making politics worse. Do you know what they're doing? Doing a little demagogy in the mornings, doing another bit of demagogy in the afternoons, and, if so, convening a demonstration at the weekend so theirs would go and tell them that Galicia doesn't want to be Katanga. Indeed, opposition gentlemen, Galicia does not want to be Katanga. We will continue to work so that Galicia is far away from her hands and we will continue to work so that Galicia is a land where we can innovate, where we can compete and where we bet on the R & D+i as a strategic tool to make a much better Galicia and that you never have a chance in life to rule this country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u112	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Replica, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups and their comments. I do have to admit that the opposition's intervention seemed a little innovative to me. It seems that the speech does not change for its part; they continue with an expired speech, and unfortunately, just when we try to move a debate from the Government to the bottom, you stay in shape, and I think we should really focus on the debate, especially on the contents. Mrs. Presas, I have to make an amendment to your entire intervention. I understand that logically they are themes that have a certain scope, a certain content, but that's that this plan is a government plan, it's not a plan of the Economics, Industry and Employment Council. I am deeply sorry that you did not focus the debate on attendance. The appearance is about the Galicia Innovation 2020 Plan, the Government's R & D+i plan, which is collected in the Innovation Act, and you come here to talk about the innovation investments of the Economic, Employment and Industry Council. Madam President, you will understand that we are talking about different, totally different debates. So let me pick up your contributions with a certain distance, especially when you talk about the budget, when you talk about the budgetary effort, because you have nothing to do with what I proposed here this morning with your intervention; we would just have to focus on the subject. Logically, the Start program, the Opportunius program and the Talent Senior program, Your Honor, are in the budgets of 2018; they are in the budgets, it's not an intentionality, and therefore it's not just a possibility of the Government, but they are actually collected. He also planted me, like Mr. Losada, the delay of the plan. You know that the Community framework was adopted in 2014 to 2020, and you know perfectly well that this Community framework has begun to develop and to define as of 2015 with the signature of the operational programme. You know perfectly well that in 2014 the Strategy of Smart Specialization was approved, and you know, because it was the Government's appearance, that this Strategy of Smart Specialization not only expanded but it was also oriented within Plan I2C. So we're talking about this government's innovation policy having a continuity through the different planning tools, but above all it's had a continuity from the budgetary point of view and, therefore, the realization of the different actions. So I believe, honestly, that the relevant thing would be — and I hope that in its reply it will center the debate on the Government's R & D+i Plan and not on the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry — that we could have a debate on the innovation policy of the Council of Galicia and, therefore, on all the activities of the departments of the Council. Mr. Losada, I thank you for recommending a book to this House... to me? [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Oh, sorry. I knew him, and I appreciate him. It is the book that speaks precisely of the innovation model of Israel and therefore I understand that you agree, indeed, that Galicia is driving relations and that our companies and our technological centres establish a framework for collaboration in technology and innovation with Israel. Logically, in that context, we fully agree. What is also true is that when he refers to one of the initiatives within the journey, which, in fact, was ourCrowd's assistance, he should also move to this House which were represented by 90 countries and which were, therefore, the main companies that actually try to identify different technologies that are developing in Israel and thus establish models of collaboration with companies and technology centres. I believe that the automotive sector, the ICT sector, the biotechnology sector and the aeronautical sector, which were the sectors that were represented on this trip, along with the president of the Galician Union and the various departments of the Union, were an opportunity. And above all it was an opportunity, ladies and gentlemen — and I also try to gather here the contribution of the spokesperson for the En Marea Group — that the innovation policy of the Galician Union speaks of realities. And those realities are in the Official Journal of Galicia, they're not at a power point. That's why I'm surprised the opposition groups come here to talk to a power point. No, you see, you come here to talk about everything or nothing, but the reality is that the government's innovation policy is in the Official Journal of Galicia, because in the Official Journal of Galicia there are the different initiatives being developed in Industry 4.0. So here we have these calls from the contest of ideas that have already benefited 70 companies, or that call that will also allow small and medium-sized companies to develop digital projects and projects related to the ICT area. But the Government — as you know — is facilitating innovation, therefore, in that map of support for innovation, through the various accelerators, both in the automotive sector, with the Business Factory; the wood sector, through the CIS-Madeira; and the agri-food sector, through the AgroBiotech; ultimately, realities that speak of, indeed, a government bet by the R & D+i with real facts and concert budgets. And all those measures, logically, are also enabling the strengthening and strengthening of the R & D+i ecosystem with the recruitment of researchers; 300 researchers, Mrs. Presas, were able to hire through the different Principles and Opportunius programs, which are in the 2018 budgets. And they were able to create and maintain 430 jobs through the different program contracts that are developing with the technology centers and CSIC itself. The Start Programme has already made it possible to support seven initiatives, with a budget of EUR 2 million. Finally, support for research. And the university also logically receives support from stable programmes such as pre- and post-doctoral aid. And therefore logically actions to reinforce the entire R+D+i map. I honestly believe that it is important to talk about programs. I would like to know if the opposition really supports the creation of digital innovation hubs, which is a concrete proposal that brings the government into the Galician Innovation Plan. I'd like to know if the opposition logically also supports that international vocation that has the plan and, therefore, the capacity that we will have to develop this talent-gathering and retention plan to favor the R & D+i ecosystem. Finally, what I would like to see is that the actions are actually implemented, because they are concrete measures put forward by the Government. I'd like to know at some point whether the En Marea group supports Rozas or not because I'm really a little bit, in that sense, confused, especially when they move here today a project that has nothing to do with the budget of the industrial and technological pole of Rozas that is promoting the Government and that does constitute part of the activities that are going to take place in Rozas, which is something different. The Phoenix Project, as you know, is an additional project that will develop INTA, beyond the EUR 150 million bet it will bring to Galicia. So the only thing that's being demonstrated with Rozas are two things: firstly, a strengthening of infrastructure, with an investment of 10 million euros; and secondly, the opportunity not to just get both Indra and Babcok to develop R & D projects. There are 18 small and medium-sized companies and technology centres that are already developing related programs and contracts that are developing with Indra and Babcok. 188 jobs linked to Rozas have already been created. And in addition, INTA will develop a project that will bring more research capacity to Galicia with that Phoenix Project and, therefore, with its headquarters in Rozas on that plane and that meteorological research platform. Finally, I think there is a clear bet with concrete measures that are contained in this government's R & D+i Plan. And, therefore, I believe that simply what we have to talk about is data and concrete facts, which is what is collected in the plan and, I say, I hope that opposition groups can look at the different areas in the replica. Mr. Losada, when you're talking about mobilizing — you know it well — we're talking about public and private investment. And, therefore, there is a perfect quantification of the contribution of public mobilization that, with the co-financing of private administration, constitutes mobilization. So when we talk about €1.775 million, we're talking about the capacity that Galicia has to have with public investments, along with co-financing and therefore private investment that is going to develop linked to the different projects. I think they're very specific data. And, by the way — an additional data — this R & D+i Plan, Mrs Presas, specifies the contributions of public funding from the Galician Union. Do not pick up at any time any game related to additional investments that the State will provide, for example, through the Phoenix Project. Finally, I think it's a clear government bet for R+D+i. The new growth model must be based on innovation. And this plan focuses on the role played — as I told you — in talent, in people. There is a clear bet for strengthening the system of R & D+i both in universities, in technology centres, and in knowledge centres, but above all there is also a clear bet — on which I would also like to say my own opposition — by public-private collaboration, in which private investment must also be the driving force behind the different developments of R & D+i, so that our business fabric can be more competitive through more innovation and through greater positioning in the international environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u114	Thank you, Counselor. Round of clarifications. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, in some way we must be wrong about the opposition. Perhaps the previous Innovation Plan has worked so much that they have already invented teletransport and applied it to this Parliament, because, in view of what the Members of the People's Party have to say, it seems that we are in the Valencia Parliament and not in the Greek Parliament. [[Applause]] And indeed, before I go with Mr Counsellor — although I will not spend too much time of my life with Mr Tellado — we do indeed read the power point. Well, I left it there -- it's called PDF, because it's true that I came to PDF -- but it has nothing to do with what I hope is at some point the plan developed and with a broad text, at least 90% compared to the 200 and peak pages of the previous plan. [[Applause]] But, of course, what we've been transferred to, what they've put on record, was that presentation that has more colors and graphics than text with explanations. Just like you, at the People's Party Parliamentary Group meeting, you had more information, but we had that one that we referred to, and that you, by the way, didn't have to read too much, or you shouldn't give it much, because you talked more about Valencia or the Entrepreneurship Implementation Act than that. But of course it's your role and I'm not going to extend it anymore. Mr. Count, really, don't take my hair off. Just don't take my hair off! Because — I repeat — transversality is not opacity. And we understand that, logically, innovation does not have to be alone in the Industry Council; indeed, it does not have to be alone in innovation programmes. But if you were exactly what you referred to the degree of execution of those programs and the one that had increased, because you wouldn't tell me that they don't indicate anything and that they have nothing to do with it. Home! In fact, it must be cross-sectional, but we also understand that it must be in this Parliament where it is explained which part corresponds to each and where it is explained that, logically, if there is a programme in budgets, which is the Greek Innovation Plan, it will have to worry about something like the level of execution in recent years, which is an average of 70%. Of course I do! For you to change the structure of budgets, if you want, or take other indicators that you don't like as much as GDP, and what has been the evolution of investment in terms of GDP? Because of course it's quite dramatic and it's had a complicated evolution, at least. And you have lowered -- as I said before -- the level of self-existence for within two years; so that's not good for us. It seems that today we have to come with a double ration of patience, and we will have it, but of course we are not worth it. And of course we insist that for us this plan is late and bad, to start with because it comes with less information than the Innovation Act itself implies that it should have. So we've ratified that and we're not worth those excuses. And we're reinstalling that, if you want, you can actually open up a dialogue process where we can draw up proposals more often and there's a more complete participation, like that one that's supposed to be pushing you out. And there we will, but it's frankly complicated with these foundations. Yes, I wanted to take advantage of my reply to comment on some other matter that didn't give me time on the first shift about the children -- we understand -- goals that you are marked. Because, for example, you say that you bet on increasing business spending by 20% on innovative activities in 2016 from 504 million to 605 by 2020. And again they announce the strong increase of a variable, when evolution from 2009 to today is really negative. So, of course, we agree that there must be public-private innovation mechanisms and that the part of the private company is fundamental to that path of innovation in our country. But, of course, we would like to know how, because the investment has fallen in recent years in more than 200 million euros; if we update it with the IPC, 217. So here there was a drop of almost 30%, while in the state it's about 20%, just by commenting on one of the other goals that you're looking at and which we think are insufficient. In any case — I insist — if the difference between what they did with the RIS3, which was limited to timely and abstract debates in this Parliament, and the difference between what they did these years, where they did not bother to transmit to this House what was the year-to-year evaluation of the Innovation Plan, if they decide to make a change of direction in that direction and to count on our opinion, but of course, the plan they present to us today and the attitude that their parliamentary group frankly sends another message. You, in your press notes, will point out that they open the dialogue, but we, from here on, have an absolutely opposite perception and worry about us, because we think it's not late, but that we're still losing a very valuable and important time while in our country more trained people leave and we have a very, very, very small return to what we could be pushing with a real active return policy for researchers and technologists who have left in recent years. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u117	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, of course I like Israel's innovation model, 4.1% of GDP, 0.87% of GDP. Of course I like it! The model I like, what I don't like is budget policy in relation to the research and innovation of the German Government. I think I tried to make it clear from the beginning. Digital innovation Hubs, perfect! How many funds? Because it's very nice to talk about hubs of digital innovation and galactic ship, but funds... a small detail of no importance, given that they're multi-years, but something. Rozas, 75 million euros from Indra and Babcok. How much is it invested? How much did he mobilize? How many jobs are created today? How much did you put together? It's very easy, eh! It's numbers, it doesn't seem complicated. 1,800 million euro mobilised. Counsellor, then in four years it doesn't come out of 1.7% of GDP. Or there's also a fourth dimension, like in Rozas, or it doesn't come out. You have to tell me how to do it. It doesn't come out, or at least it doesn't work out for me, and -- I insist -- rules three I think I can do. Mr. Tellado, just a couple of questions. In 2010 the budget has already done so to the full of Mr. Feijóo's government. And by the way, you didn't have to pay back 2,000 million euros, you had to return 200. Of course, 200!, not 2,000 million euros. I understand you write it there, you have written history there, and it's very good, but no, it's 200 million euros. We had to return 2,000 in the set. Of course, so... well, then not 2,000. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, 2,000, perfect. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's talk about Valencia. Look, actually, it's nice to talk about Valencia, because we already had Soto del Real Corporation and now we have the Branch Office of Picassent Corporation, so we're going to expand the multinational network. The Act 2/ 2012, of the PP, is the law that amends that law, and it was a law made exactly so that Picassent Corporation instead of having 200 squares had 400. You know? That's what we're talking about. Don't tell me no, man! But if they're entering the trullo day yes, day no. What do you mean, no? Then, look, from Valencia they don't talk. [[Applause]] Because it's fine with Formula One, but it's fine with the Pope. Don't talk about Valencia, please. There are 15 other autonomous communities, but just from Valencia... it's worth it! It's worth it. [[Murmurs.]] Counselor, I wanted to know exactly an unadvertised negotiation... I don't know if Mrs. Egerique is in the debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, I'm talking about Valencia and I'm talking about Picasset, indeed, of course I'm talking about it. And if you bother them, if you bother them... they hold on. [[Murmurs.]] If you bother them, hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u118	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u119	I haven't talked about clothing plugins yet, so I haven't talked about them yet. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u120	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u121	The only difference is that Abel Caballero's watch is over. That's a little detail. [[Murmurs.]] Oh, of course. Of course, of course!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u122	On the subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u123	Negotiated without publicity, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u124	On the subject, Mr. Losada...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u125	Consultancy service for the development of a Galician R & D policy strategy and synergy with the German and State R & D plan. What exactly is this? Because it was simultaneous to this power point and PDF. It's exactly the same, isn't it? Because if it's the same, the truth is, there hasn't been much time until now for the participation of citizenship, because exactly the date is 5th of 12th of 2017 and the execution period was two and a half months. Then, I insist, perhaps it's not the same, but to me it all seems to indicate that it must be the same. And then I go back to 3PP, I go back to advertising and propaganda. Last Friday, the collaboration agreements of his councillor signed on the third quarter of 2017 came out. The truth is, to be an economic, labour and innovation advisor, 30% of the media collaboration agreements. Or they're very concerned about cultural industries and cultural diffusion, or everything seems to indicate, Counselor, that they respond to another strategy, and it would also be good at some point to tell it. You started talking about model change and I'll finish talking about model change. We took four years, from 2014 to 2017, growing in GDP. In the case of the last three, about 3% on average, reaching the prescribed level. Counsellor, I don't know if it's your jurisdiction or the councillor of Fairy or President Feijóo, where's this growth going? Because wages systematically lose weight in the gross domestic product of this community, with and without innovation, with and without digital connection hubs. With all those things you're talking about here, but I'm not able to move into the daily lives of the citizens of this autonomous community, and let's not tell the workers anymore. I'll explain exactly where he's going because there's no miracles. If you don't go to wages, you go to business profits. And if there's another alternative, tell us exactly what it is, because today the BBVA Foundation publishes the regional monitor data. So while GDP grows more or less the same as the set of Spain in 2017, and the forecast of 2018 and 2019...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u127	...the job will grow less than half as it is in Spain. Given the average wages of this autonomous community, I would like to repeat: do you really believe that the model change that is taking place in this autonomous community, with a government presided over by Mr Feijóo, who has been ruling for nine years, is a model of growth based on innovation and research?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u128	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u129	Do you really believe that?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u131	You know perfectly well that's not so, and that the model, Counselor, is a low cost model for the workers. That's the model.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u132	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Merlo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u133	Mr. Conde, look, I'm the midway as folk music style I value it a lot, but as a debate tool in a camera like this I can't admit, and today we've had a lot of miles. Mr. Tellado, I want to tell you two things. You think it's a joke what we're talking about here, but it's not, it's not. Look, don't ever worry about how we invest in the ten minutes of our interventions. Worry about how they lost us 35 years to others with their policies. That's what you have to worry about. [[Murmurs.]] And you also worry about listening, because the power point, as you say, is the only thing we can praise from this presentation. That's what we criticize, and we talk about data; we talk about data a lot. Listening to a PP member talk about what we want to deprecate Valencia seems to me... is that it's so serious that I can't even laugh at this. You're in charge of your party, you're a manager of your party, what are you saying? Look, Mr. Conde, let's focus on the contents. We've done this in our first intervention, and what happens is that the contents -- as I've already told you -- are evidence of irreversible deficiencies. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're in favour and we're going to hold hands and give proposals that can really provide an investment and a growth of the R & D+i in Galicia, and we're doing it altruistically. As we have already shown, we do not say that everything in this plan is wrong, what we say is that a part is missing, that is the fundamental base, that is not yet set, and therefore, we cannot try to reach the stars when we have not yet set the ground. That's the reality. I've already told you in my speech that we have a reality that is that 90% of the Greek pemmes are still in Industry 1.0. That's a reality and you know it. So how are we going to jump? Are we going to do a sublimation process and move from solid to gas? Do we have alchemists or do we have technicians? What do we have here? But what are we talking about? [[Applause]] Look, I used to give you an example with the theme of the Phoenix project, which obviously isn't inside the Innova, but it's a very clear example of the type of investments — which I don't despise — that can attract the Rozas pole. This project has an investment by INTA, which is the Government of Spain, the Union, and then it's a product of self-consumption, which we're going to consume precisely the Government of Spain. But I'm not the critic, we're talking about investing public money for consumption with public money, but it's 6 jobs in the whole. It can create a series of synergies that can provide a number of tissues, and that's what we agree with, but we don't sell it as a macroproject that's panacea for everything because it's not true. I mean, do you know how many people were working today at 12 o'clock in the morning for the technology of the Roses? Do you know that specifically? To this day, even today, how many people were working at the Rocks' chicken? What is the degree of execution of the investments made in the Rocks' chicken today? What is it? Because that information I think is essential for us to be able to get close to this and try to facilitate, and not to make an opposition to oppose us, which is not our line for anything. So, I think it's clear to you that we're not against the Roses' pole, we're against being sold a chimera that's not true. There's a lot of way to go and it's a bet, and we say, a bold bet. But for that daring bet to have fruit, it has to have a base, and we're reporting that what's missing is the base. You have to put the cements first and they're not put. Investment capture. Well, the same thing. Obviously, this is a difficult task that you have to do, but you have to do it with your feet in reality because other countries are not fools. This is business, I'm not an NGO. They're not there to give the money. They'll do it when they have a return. What's the return we're going to have in Galicia towards those investments? That is a study, and fundamental part, that I didn't see in Innova 2020. I didn't see what the return calculations of the investments we were going to be 20 years old, for example. Not an estimate. I didn't see it. Maybe I couldn't see him, but I didn't see him. What does it look like, for example, by what I was saying before the reality of our business fabric and the wages linked to excellence and industry 4.0 with Galician reality? How does Israel look like Galicia? How does the University of Israel look to the Greek universities? In its management model and its financing, how does Israel’s industry look like the Welsh industry? How are Israel's communications infrastructures and bands similar to those of Galicia? They're different cases. We, of course, can look there and know where we want to move, but we can't establish comparative harms because, first, we don't have much way to go that other countries have already been. I'm telling you, this plan is wonderful if we were in Germany or Belgium, but we're not there. We're in Galicia and we have a reality. Let's look at that reality and try to move forward to where we must move. Let's not take giant steps and leave the most important path. Sell drones? Well, I think it's an interesting thing, but you have to be careful how you sell it. There are marketing strategies. I can give you some advice because I've devoted myself to sales for a while, and I can tell you that a very good selling argument isn't exactly trying to sell drones to another country to watch the mountains after we had all but a potato left in a circle. It's not the best way to sell anything. But now, returning to the seriousness, we believe that in order for this plan to develop, there must be a previous step that is not happening. We're looking for ways to strengthen precisely those companies, those pemes, which are the ones that generate jobs, which are the ones that are innovating every day, and we have the infrastructure for the most basic automation that enables them to move forward and be at least at an exit point towards that Industry 4.0 that I, at this stage, never see it come. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u134	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. Either I'm wrong or they don't want to understand me. I didn't criticize Generalitat Valenciana, I criticized them to you. And I said that the Valencian Generalitat is right when we copy the Business Implementation Act. It's you who say something here in the opposition and there in the Valencian community do the opposite. [[Applause]] So he got Galicia right by approving the Business Implementation Act and hit Generalitat Valenciana by copying the law. Madam Presas, I agree with you only in one thing: Actually, you're right, the power point is well done, it's a good document. Of course, very good attitude on his part, but empty hands, no proposal on innovation. As far as Mr Losada is concerned, it must be acknowledged that it was already difficult to be a spokesman for the Socialist Party's industry here in this Parliament, much more difficult to be an industrial spokesman and at the same time a secretary general of Vigo. I'd ask you for some consistency. You, who is general secretary of the PSdEG-PSOE in Vigo, see that you vote tomorrow when we talk about the resizable permanent prison, if you vote the same as where you are general secretary or you will vote against. Will you abstain like Vigo or will you vote for us? We hope that you will vote in favour. [[Murmurs.]] The only truth, Mr. Losada, is that it turns out curious, paradigmatic, to see a member of the Socialist Party talk about corruption as cheerfully as if that of the EREs of Andalusia wasn't with you and your party. Look, you, the opposition gentlemen, spend all day demanding the People's Party to come to this Parliament every day to apologize to us. We have to apologize for having an absolute majority and we have to apologize for ruling as the Greeks ask us to govern, which is fulfilling our electoral program. We have to apologize to them, because it seems that you really like to ask us to listen to the Greek less and less when the Greeks talk in the polls; no, there they send us, but we have to listen to the Greek. Listen, you listen to us, because a year and three months ago the Greeks voted and told you that nothing and we were given the responsibility of ruling, nothing more and nothing less than 48 percent of the Greeks who voted. Look, we have to apologize — and if they want to, we do so — for pulling Galicia out of the crisis. We have to apologize for making Galicia grow to 3%. We have to apologize for creating over the past year, over the last 12 months, 20,000 jobs. We have to apologize for beating export records year after year. We have to apologize today, Counselor, for having an innovation strategy to make Galicia a territory with an increasingly competitive economy. The opposition gentlemen want us to apologize for knowing how to look out for new business opportunities and for looking for new markets and trying to capture investments in our community. We have to apologize, Counsellor, because the budget of the Galician Innovation Agency is rising this year by 26% compared to the previous year. It is that, of course, they are the ones of moral superiority, above all, above all. And that is why we have to listen to the representative — absent — of this great social majority, Mr Villares, saying that, of course, they represent the social majority of Galicia and not represent it by the People's Party. Hey, look, could you define what this is for you? Is it 19% of the Greeks who voted for them? Are those 8,000 people who participate in these processes? Is the majority of society the 250 lords who supported Mr. Villares to be the leader of that party, this coalition? Look, I only know that Mr. Villares, if he was a little humble, if today we call the Greeks back to the polls, Mr. Lago, do you know what would happen? First of all, it wouldn't be clear that Mr. Villares was the candidate of his own party. If I were the candidate, it would probably not be the second force. [[Murmurs.]] But the absolute certainty, Mr. Lago,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u136	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u137	...is that the People's Party would once again get an absolute majority as we got a year and three months ago. [[Applause]] Look, the important thing about innovation, Mr. Tide of Podemos, is this development, a transfer model, a model that allows for public and private collaboration. I know we have very different concepts of public and private collaboration. For us, public-private collaboration allows innovation, talent to be transmitted to our productive sectors; you understand public-private collaboration from another perspective: you have to be a member of the tide and you have to be on these lists of friends. But corruption you don't want to talk, but it allows access to floors. [[Murmurs.]] Look, that's the reality. I know you're very upset that we call them The Tides of Podemos. It's true, Mr. Lago: The Tide of Podemos is not the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u138	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u139	The most right thing would be, Mr. Lake, The Tides of Puddings, or, in any case, if we talk about the confluences in the city of Coruña, better than Las Mareas de Poisons or Las Mareas de Puddles......, [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u140	Quiet. No, no, sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u141	..., Mr. Lago, the best thing is to be called Idealist. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u142	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Mr. Tellado, it didn't seem right to me to the expression... —I'm sorry, I'm going to start, they still don't know what I'm going to say, I think it's going to be normal first to hear me. [[Murmurs.]] I received a complaint the other day — and I am sending it to a spokesperson for a parliamentary group — in this case the spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea; he does not agree that they are addressed to them as the Parliamentary Group on the Tide of Powers. I'll give it to you... Sorry, sorry, I know that... Don't tell me, Mrs. Prado, what I mean. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] To me, I move it to whoever uses it; I know it cannot be considered an insult, and therefore this is not a matter which I catalogue as a call. [[Murmurs.]] I'll transfer it to you to, as far as possible, if that can be repeated. And so I think there are certain expressions that were used here today that I didn't find suitable, for example, for the Tide. That's why, Mr. Tellado, I ask you to withdraw the tides of Pudding. I ask you to pull it out, I ask you to pull it out, because I don't think it's appropriate; I ask you to pull it out. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira asks for the floor.]] Give a voice to Mr. Tellado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u143	The truth is, I was forced to speak of the Party of the Tides of Podemos before Mr. Lago's permanent rebuke; therefore, I had to clarify something that upsets him very much. Without any doubt, it is popularly known as Las Mareas de Podemos and what it is about is that people understand, and therefore I cannot withdraw something that is commonly accepted in the street: The Mareas de Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u144	No, I mean the Tides of Podimos. I ask you to remove that expression. [[Laughter]] Yes, yes, I ask you to remove that expression. [[Murmurs.]] I ask you to remove that expression and the other one is a suggestion that I transfer it to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u145	It's true they couldn't, but at any rate, we left it in Las Mareas de Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u146	I transferred that request. That expression is withdrawn. [[Mr. Lake Peñas asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Lago, what do you want the word for? [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, excuse me a moment. I want to know what the word is for. Excuse me, please, I want to know what the word is for and then the counselor will finish. What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u147	There's a direct allusion from Mr. Tellado right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u148	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u149	I just wanted to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u150	I don't think so. Thank you. [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I've moved it. It's moved, Mr. Lago. You've finished your shift. Counselor, to finish this show.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I believe that today the opposition spokespersons are losing an opportunity especially to talk about the needs of companies, to talk about the needs of technology centres, universities, ultimately, to work on that new production model in which we want to encourage Galicia to be through innovation, of Industry 3.0, as we can actually distinguish ourselves from the rest of the countries and, therefore, as Galicia can have a space and a protagonist in the global economy. That's why, Mr. Losada, Galicia does not work in a low cost model, neither for the workers nor for our industry. Galicia is working on a model of innovation in which we can differentiate ourselves, and therefore this Galicia Innovation 2020 plan precisely picks up those measures that we understand from the Government that allow our R & D+i ecosystem to boost smart growth based on innovation and that, therefore, we have a sustainable growth in Galicia, which brings more employment, more quality employment, and which, therefore, we can compete in that global economy. That's the objective, that's the measures, and I'm sorry that the opposition did not focus on the replication either the debate on the measures contained in the plan and that they therefore try to give content to this new R & D+i Plan, which, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, focuses on people, not on infrastructure, and that what they want is precisely, through concrete measures, to move forward and that Galicia can be at the forefront of innovation. That's why, Mrs. Presas, I sincerely believe you haven't corrected your mistake. I think it's important not to confuse the Government's R & D+i Plan with the innovation policy of the Economic, Employment and Industry Council, and that's why, frankly, I think your reflections simply do not agree with what we've been discussing here this morning. Mr. Merlo, clearly the goal of the Government is to work on boosting Industry 4.0 and we are aware that, logically, the degree of development of this Industry 4.0 in our productive tissue is heterogeneous, and that is why we need to introduce measures that precisely push and allow our productive tissue to walk towards Industry 4.0. But that, as I said at the beginning, is in the Official Journal of Galicia. This is the order of "intelligent factory", which is allowing companies like Televés or PSA Peugeot Citroën to be developing R & D in our autonomous community. There's this 4.0 idea contest, which is allowing 70 companies, small and medium-sized companies, to be investing in 4.0-oriented technology. This is the order of digitalization aids in ICT, geared to small and medium-sized enterprises, which will allow an investment of 5 million euros this year 2018, precisely so that smaller ones can also collect these opportunities in Industry 4.0. And, therefore, we talk about realities. I believe that, honestly, in Galicia we have a highly qualified human capital. I think we have three top-quality universities with 28 vanguard technology centers. I think we have an industry that has strategic sectors and emerging sectors that are responding. And that's why I think this plan responds to a reality, to the reality that we're being demanded by the centers of knowledge and the productive tissue. The starting point, logically, is collaboration. That's why we have to look at countries that have actually developed important R & D+i projects and models, and that's why we have to focus this policy on an alliance, an administration alliance with companies, knowledge centres, and thus allow Galicia to continue to move forward in that research activity. Today we are the fifth autonomous community that most invests in that research activity, and of course the Government is trying to serve precisely to promote that greater activity. Mr. Losada, we can't mix the concepts, because you know perfectly well that the investment of R & D+i on GDP is a separate story from the R & D+i Plan itself, because the R & D+i Plan only contains those investments in which Galicia's own board participates. So they're not comparable, and that's why making rules of three, in this case, with two measures that are not comparable, would just lead us to make a mistake. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this Government R & D+I Plan, the Galicia Innovation 2020 Plan, focuses its priorities on scientific and technological knowledge, knowledge transfer, and above all on looking for a return so that this investment can become more economic growth, greater employment and thus better positioning. That's why we have three challenges, three paths, where we want to work: to generate that transfer of specialized knowledge. We want research to be connected to industry and connected to society; it's a fundamental element of this plan. And that's why we have to work with technology centers, universities, and, logically, also, to strengthen research in industrial areas, in areas of Industry 4.0, biotechnology or unmanned civil aviation. That's why we have to boost the uptake of innovative talent, focusing that knowledge on people. And that's why we also have to pay special attention to providing resources to small and medium-sized enterprises, with facts. As I said, Mr. Merlo, Rozas is a reality. You try to move in your interventions that this plan, which will mobilise 1,775 million euros, is a chimera. But that's what they said about Rozas; today Rozas is a reality. Just like this plan, with the collaboration of everyone: of the administration, of the companies, of the knowledge centres, it's going to be a reality too. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Innovation Plan is the guide that we provide for the R & D+i ecosystem, precisely, so that Galicia can be at the forefront of innovation, that Galicia can contribute to that productive model, and ultimately that we can continue to make progress on specific goals such as increasing that 10% of the workers linked to R & D+i, 15% of innovative companies, and increasing private investment in innovation as well as 20%. The formula is very simple: a formula through an alliance between Administration, the knowledge centers, the strategic sectors of the Welsh industry. And I sincerely believe that we have to work together so that Galicia can continue to position itself on R & D+i as its differential element. There are countries that are focusing on their growth model, their productive model, at the low cost. Galicia bets on innovation, industry 4.0, quality employment and smart, sustainable growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u152	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u153	We resume the session, with the third item on the agenda, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia in the field of social services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u154	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u155	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u156	Thank you, President. Managing misery is what Joina can do with her social policies. Firstly, because, as we have said so many times, the little instruments and budgets of the Autonomy are not able to respond to the magnitude of the current social crisis nor to the structural problems of the Greek economy. But secondly, as we have repeatedly seen, we have also been complaining about, because the Government of Greece has refused to move budgetaryly the accist phase of the economy which began in 2014, reducing the weight of the board's budget in the whole of the Greek economy. Thus, inequality — which was already a structural element of Galician society — has strengthened itself with the crisis and we have a bleak picture, because Galicia combines the worst work evolution of the state with an increase in the cost of living, and the result is an increase during the crisis of relative poverty and inequality. Despite this, investment in social services in relation to GDP remains of the lowest in the state. At the level of employment — as we have told you this Monday — it will take twenty-five years to recover — if at this rate — levels before the crisis. That is why we wanted to not fail to frame this proposal to increase investment in social services in the general context of inequality, which really does not reach our country only, it is a global context of the fall of the model of welfare and triumph of financial capital. It's not a short speech — as I think Mr Tellado pointed out today — because it's the speech attached to social reality. The people who went out this Sunday, older people — who saw the conquest of a health of proximity as a conquest of theirs, as a social conquest — do not manifest themselves by that belief that there are cuts and that the financial capital is dominating our lives; it manifests itself because it perceives them in the increase of waiting lists or in the lack of staff. That's what happens in social services, and that's why we want to frame our motion in this context. Because, one by one, as we go down our proposals, they have to correct the policy of the People's Party: putting business over people. That is why we are also aware that our proposals are minimal, that they are minimal issues that can in some way shorten the social decline of the country. But they are not enough to the extent that they should be accompanied — as has been said this morning on repeated occasions — by the legislative changes that were made during the crisis, by the derogation of these legislative changes in the state framework that put the institutions in the service of the Troika — as has already been pointed out to them in Marea in the morning. And that maybe it's not even enough in a state without monetary sovereignty what can be done in the state and that it also needs to have a continental perspective. But, finally, let's go what we're touched by, which are the budgets of the Union. We, in the budget alternative of En Marea, have already proposed to raise significantly the investment in social policies. That is why we propose in this motion that in the 2019 budgets — if they consider it — investment in action and social promotion is raised by at least EUR 120 million. We have to reverse the fall in the weight of the board budget in the whole economy. The budget alternative of En Marea was viable and so we proposed it to them in the 2018 budgets; they did not accept it, they have the opportunity to commit themselves to 2019. We are also aware that you have to be accompanied by a change for the municipalities. In the report on the development of social services in Galicia — which we pointed out in the interpellation — our country occupies the third ten instead of the development of the social services system in the state as a whole. This includes municipalities as well, not just the Union. But it must be borne in mind that these councils were overwhelmed by these legislative changes of what we were talking about, which cut resources and, above all, the ability to have staff to care for social services; services which, of course, were not of their competence, during the crisis if they had to be taken care of by leave of higher administrations, as is the case with Junta. Another of the issues we propose — although it is a motion on increasing investment in social services — is also to increase employment promotion budgets. It's fundamental. In our society employment has so far been — let us say — the guarantor of social inclusion, but at the moment employment no longer guarantees to escape poverty. So in addition to promoting employment, more and better employment is what this country needs to stop the demographic decline. I was pointing out to the advisor these days that there will be a law of demographic impulse; by many laws that they do, if we don't have decent jobs, there will be no demographic change. But apart from the need for a job, we also need a change in the Risk model. Why? Risk is not reformable as the crisis has brought new forms of poverty, brought new poverty profiles, profiles related also to that precarious job. By giving a data, for 2018 you put that you will receive Risga about 10,800 people, but in 2016 there were 154,306 people charging less than 3,000 euros of annual income. It's urgent to reform the risk. That's why we propose a proposal for a first phase of a change to a social income model that is not conditional, that eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy and that allows people social inclusion, because they're not doing so. Risga's problems over these years have driven a law, the Law of Social Inclusion, which had no consensus among professional people. The next year of that law, there were tremendous delays in the handling of the risk. And then there were risky denials that broke out in the deluitive; people who had no other social protection resources could not access the Risk due to insumable requirements and that the technical staff of the social services of the municipalities told them they were not on receipt. Risga doesn't have to be reformed, you have to drop it and you have to have another model. That's why they have the opportunity to support walking towards him. Another point we propose is the need to regain public employment rights. It is essential that sufficient staff with good working conditions to provide quality services. We have already highlighted here the example of social policy centres with saturated staff, with the rights cut by the famous Public Employment Act, which, in turn, continues the path of state laws that cut rights. Satisfied staff, people without rest are equal to the greatest accident at work, and forty-one percent of it is due to overwork. So we have to reverse that situation if we want quality social services. Another of the issues we propose is to stop privatization in the area of minors, which is one of the areas — the specialized social services of the area of minors in the Union — with the highest degree of privatization. Programs are privatized, services such as psychological care are privatized, or childcare centres are highly privatized, which must be placed in a centre. We propose to promote the public management of the reception of minors, because it is not to be welcomed that most of this attention has to do with private management. Again, we're on that business first thing, then people. Examples? We can go to specific examples: the Centro de Menores de Montealegre. This situation continues to be brought to Commission 5a, which continues to be closed and mixed into another child profiles centre which should not be mixed. Functional diversity. We're not leaving Ourense. Residential care needs to be increased to people with functional diversity in the public sector. We have the famous Center for the Care of Functional Diversity, a social mobilization in the entire province of Ourense, which led to the rectification of the Council, recognizing the need for a public centre for attention to functional diversity in Ourense. And yet this year, because only funds are earmarked for the same thing. Another one of the points. We urgently need more shelters for women victims of macho violence. It is dramatic the situation in which, for example, the Cozy House of Women of the Crown finds itself saturated and women victims of masculine violence in the Santiago area have to go to Ferrol or even to Vigo when there is no square, and even they have to decide quickly in or two days if they accept that square because there are no squares, they are soon left without a square. This is fundamental, increasing funds for reception centres for women victims of violence. For starting with a point, in 2019, a welcome home for the Compostela area. Unit. We talked about it the other day. It is essential to demand that the State assume 50% of the total expenditure. But we're also one of the autonomous communities with the highest pay in services when the average pension is the lowest. The famous letter then announcing the rise of 0.25% is a joke, in addition to the fact that the largest people in Greece lost 3% of their average purchasing power since 2010. Another situation that needs to be cut short. As our country is one of the highest rate of homeless people, it is fundamental to a Greek strategy. This was answered these days to a question from En Marea saying yes, what they're going to do and what they're doing a study, and what they're doing in collaboration with the Red Cross. But until now we have been denied, even in the Commission, the need to promote a specific initiative, a specific model of care for homeless people, when it is something that demands it from the European Union itself and the state plan itself. Public residences. I don't have time, but I think he's been exposed sufficiently to the interrogation. We have a privatized model instead of tending to the endowment of more public squares. It costs you more to pay for a residence in a concerted center, it costs you more than a person to be in a concerted center than a public square. So we need to change the model, because we're on a model issue: business or people. We therefore propose that it be reverted, that public squares be increased in senior residences until at least 2020 to cover existing demand. It's a model question. All the proposals we bring them are model: model of betting for the public, of betting for people in front of business.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u157	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u158	Good afternoon. I'm going to start by saying that we are going to support this initiative presented in Marea, an initiative that addresses many aspects of dependency, disability, minors... that is, it addresses a number of issues that are unresolved. And we present to you an amendment simply to inciting on some aspects that we're very concerned about at BNG. And it is that, within this reality, the situation of waiting lists, both dependency and disability waiting lists, to be evaluated — and therefore that assessment derives from the recognition of relevant resources — remain tremendously high and is not being answered. And then to influence also on a matter that we want to make clear. I was now referring to Mrs de En Marea to public residences and public devices. But it's not a few times, but I would say that almost every time the Government of the People's Party refers to the squares that with public budgets are paid in private entities, they are called public squares because they are paid with public resources. So I'm sure the author of the initiative has made it clear, but to make it really clear that what we're defending at the BNG is a network itself, a change of course that instead of public resources to capitalize private companies, what we want to make clear is that we want public resources to create a public network entirely public. Not that it's the same roadmap as in the case of health or in the case of teaching, that under these figures of concerts or collaborations, or agreements, what you're doing is there's no real public network. And that at the moment that for some reason they stop having these concerts we will meet with that, with the German Government, the Greeks and the Greeks, we don't have a network of our own. We don't have our own centers, because what we're doing is we're allocating that public money to private companies that create those infrastructures. And that's why it's the amendment, which is what this is asking for: to immediately put in place a plan of attention to people on a waiting list, both for an evaluation and for the materialization of the aids they have recognized through the Dependency Act. The dimensioning of the Social Policy Council staff framework, both to eliminate delays in the register of requests for dependency, the conduct of assessments and the PIA, and the same with regard to EVO. Of course, we are very concerned that the reality of Galicia is an aging population, which is growing and which does not give rise to actions that are going to solve these problems. They worry a lot, Galicia being one of the older communities and therefore where the weight of dependent population is much higher in relation to the total population, than the resources intended to address this dependency situation are per capita under the state's average expenditure. We are concerned that this trend, rather than being rectified, is growing and, of course, it seems to us that we need the issues set here in the initiative, which we need to increase resources to end the limbo of dependence. And in other words, we're also concerned about what it means for many people who have not recognized the right to disability. What it does is that the lack of recognition of this degree is the delay in gaining access to certain social benefits that are improving in the economy, in the family, in access to training or in access to employment. Many of these people, while they have not recognized the degree of dependence, can't access any of these issues. And we're talking about delays not for days, not even months, we're talking about delays for years. With which it seems obvious that the prejudice that is causing these people is more than obvious. These are issues that we have seen insistently demanding but, of course, as long as they are not resolved, we will continue to demand them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u160	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. We are going to vote in favour of this initiative. It is true that many points are dealt with, which is almost, Mrs Vázquez Verao — let me say — a full electoral programme, because it deals, as I said, with many subjects, but we do believe that it is important for each and every one of them together. And that's because in Galicia there is right now, according to data from the Ministry of Finance itself, 1.2 million people who are in a precarious situation; at best, they are billionists and, at worst, they are already at the threshold of poverty. In view of this situation, what should be required or what it's understood to be a government should be to invest in social services. Well, no. I'm going to give you some data that I think are significant. The report on the social services development index indicates that we are the third in line for funding. Investment resident/year: EUR 274.91; third by queue; suspended. Attention in residential squares, 1.08 per 100 inhabitants, compared to, for example, 4.5 of Extremadura; dependent, suspended; coverage index of 6.4, in Spain an average of 8.5. And we're going to another official report, which is not the Socialist Group, the Imserso, the Ministry of Health report. Homecare service, suspended; coverage index below the state average. In teleassisted, suspended; coverage index, ladies and gentlemen, four times below the state average. Day centres; public funding of day centres in this autonomous community, 54%; in Spain, 40% average. Residential care; the number of private squares in Galicia is 68%; in Spain, on average, 44%. So, of course, when someone says that social services in Galicia are going well, we of course say it is the usual: when these reports are reviewed — oh, chance! — those communities that are governed on the right offer the worst indexes in almost everything, and that's precisely because equal opportunities is, as much as disturbing the People's Party lords, a totally ideological issue. Not investing in social services is not a coincidence, it's not a coincidence. Here, Mrs Vázquez Verao spoke earlier of the Ourense Functional Diversity Care Centre, which is true that they had to get out of the streets so that the Junta had simply raised this issue in the only province that does not have a center of these characteristics, and it turns out that the budget we see this year that is clearly insufficient and that there is no multi-annual program to put it into effect and that it is not going to be done, as promised to these families. And we could also talk about functional diversity why the Cegadi, this very important center in Santiago de Compostela, was also projected by a progressive government and with lands that were also handed over by the Town Hall of Santiago when we were ruling, has been paralysed for years; a vanguard centre in the area of disability that is totally paralyzed and that comes promising us one year after another that will open already, that we do not despair, and it turns out that this center is not reaching. With which we do think, we do see that it is necessary to increase this budget in terms of social services, but we do think that it is an ideological question — as I said to them — that right-wing governments are suspending funding and that today, as it is very up to date, we can say that, listening to Mr Correa in the Congress of Deputies, even if they are suspending social services funding, it is clear that illegal financing of political parties has a prominent feature. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. Today the Group of En Marea presents a motion, which contains in particular twelve points, which address various issues such as the budgets of the Galician Union, the policy of minors, dependency, gender violence, employment, public squares, social income, etc. We're talking about what is practically an amendment to the entire policy of the Galician Union. And why? We can sum up this motion that they don't like the People's Party model, and what they want is the Galician Union to apply the Tide model. Well, to find out if the Mareas model is correct or not correct to apply in our community, we need to analyze it; analyze what your budget model is, analyze what your social income model is and analyze your management model. First of all, you in your motion want the Council of Galicia to increase its budget. The budget of the Social Policy Council has increased over the past five years to EUR 293 million. For this year 2018 Galicia has over 700 million euros through the Social Policy Council. And what is your financing model? What is your budget model? Well, look, those who suspend social services funding are you, not the Galician People's Party. Because they look, municipalities like Santiago, Vigo or Pontevedra lead that ranking of the less-invested municipalities in social services, which less-invested people. So it seems very good to us that you want more budgets for social policies, but check what you're doing in your municipalities with budgets for social services. But of course, it's not just that they don't spend money on social services, but that the money that you plan will not execute. Look, municipalities like Santiago, La Coruña or Ferrol lead that ranking of non-fulfilling municipalities, which have assigned a game for social services do not spend it, do not execute it. Specifically, the Town Hall of Santiago has left 78% unexecuted; the Town Hall of Coruña, 71% unexecuted; the Town Hall of Ferrol, 69% unexecuted. Of course, so anyone can increase social services budgets and then stop executing the 78% that would be appropriate for them to invest in social services. But of course, Risga doesn't help them, Risga doesn't like them, they like that real social income that they're putting into operation in some municipalities. The Rise of Galician Union increases its budget and allocates 62.4 million euros. During 2017 more than 14,500 people received Risga in Galicia. You, with that municipal basic income that they put as a pilot project in the Town Hall, announced that a thousand families, a thousand families, would be able to perceive that municipal basic income, and, really, how many people did you meet with this income? because I don't think it's hundreds. You originally allocated 2.1 million euros to start this income. How much did they really use? 300,000. What happened to the rest of the money? What happened to those 1.8 million euros that you were going to pay for those basic municipal rents? Where did they go? Then they talk about that Galician union is privatizing social services, that canteen we hear every day in Parliament when we talk about social services. Well, I would like to remind you today that 100% of the municipally competent infant schools in the municipalities of Santiago, Vigo and Coruña are privatized, 100%; that the Vigo Council has privatized the home aid service, teleassistation, the Social Emergency Centre, the family intervention; in the Santiago de Compostela Council, what happens? That they promised to municipalize the children's schools and it turns out that what they did, when they got to the council, was to extend the contracts to concessional companies, and they come here saying that the Galician board is privatizing social services, which does not think about people. Who are you thinking about in the Town Councils? In Pontevedra Town Hall they privatize the home aid service. They already have two extensions. By the way, Mrs. Prado, is Pontevedra a public network? Is a public network the help service in Pontevedra's home? The one in Pontevedra will, well. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] And then they ask for more resources for the home help service as well. EUR 67 million is what is meant for Galician Union, while municipalities like Santiago de Compostela resign in hours funded by the Union when it has over 100 people on a waiting list. Your model, check it out; of course, we don't want it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Motion author group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u164	Yes, of course it's a whole amendment, of course it's a number of different issues, because we're dealing with, we think the most urgent. And as for the canteen that the municipalities aren't able to move forward with social policies, that you, first of all, cut back on their funding, cut back on their ability to have staff. They're obviously drowning them. They were quite able to make the municipalities, specifically the Coruña and Santiago, with those municipal social incomes, which were able to cover situations that the Union did not reach. But that's not all, it's because of those social incomes, they speeded up risk processing in the province of Coruña and reduced the huge waiting list that there was. That's what pushed him. And, as for the help service at the home of the Town Hall, you first shield yourself, before you leave the government, a contract that prevents you from extending hours and now they come claiming. It's less bad that Compostela's budgets for this year shield social rights and bet on employment, which is a source of social integration for employment, for young people, and double the budget in the home aid service. [[Applause]] And of course municipal income isn't the real social income. We couldn't even apply, with the German competition regime, a real social income, but if we were going to walk towards a model that wasn't the misery that is the Risk. Because they ask the technicians and technicians of the municipalities, who have to deal with the denials of Risk, which are done with administrative and non-technical criteria, because you have dismantled, for example, in the province of Coruña, the Administrative Risk Technical Unit, they are done with administrative criteria, and they refuse to risk the true cases that remain in social poverty if it is not for the municipalities, who try to alleviate that situation, because you drowned them, the last one in the 2017 budgets of the State. We're going to accept the amendment from BNG, because it adds a fundamental question, which is the need to reduce waiting lists in terms of both dependency and disability assessment. The Social Policy Advisor himself admitted it to a breakfast, but of course, the formula you propose is not to increase staff both in the Social Policy Council and in the orientation and evaluation teams, and that's what needs to be done. By the way, that all this deployment of social services is also a fundamental measure for conciliation, which was also called upon this week. Finally, to finish — it will be part of remembering, since we are with Valencia today all the time — if you could look like Valencia in developing a somewhat more dignified social income than Risga, in increasing the budget of social policies and also in welcoming refugees. Because these days we know that the few Syrian families we have in Galicia are thinking about leaving because they don't have social integration resources. This is infamous and gives as much as the social policies of the Galician Union are. What they have to do is ask the State to host at least what it has theoretically committed to the European Union, because otherwise they will be complicit in that crime which is to leave the people sheltered for their fate. [[Applause]] Finally, I don't have time left, I know that they won't accept this motion, and then I'm going to move them -- because today it takes people to move what they say -- if we are the Tides of Podemos, of Anova, of Left Unity, of Cerna, everything Mr Manolo Lago said, you, according to people, are the party that privatizes, who steals money that cannot go to health, social services and education. That's what is so popular if you can move here what you say popularly, instead of calling them Popular Group, we're going to call them Group of the Corrupt Party. [[Applause]] Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u165	Thank you. That phrase of "robe," Mrs. Vázquez Verao... No, no, sorry. [[Interruptions.]] No, no, I'm sorry, that's a phrase that injures a group, it injures the dignity of a group. [[Murmurs.]] Among other people, I was injured too because I belong to the Popular Group and you referred to this group. [[Interruptions.]] Then I ask you to withdraw it. [[Murmurs.]] Don't take it off, call it in order. [[Murmurs.]] I call it the order by sentence. I didn't hear another one. I didn't hear her. I didn't hear her. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ask me for the word. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have to withdraw both, actually, because it's not a corrupt group. Then, both are withdrawn with an order call, of course. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't get into it, please, now. I'm sorry, but I didn't understand that; if I understood it, I'd correct it. But I also ask everyone to moderate language a little, if possible. No, everyone, everyone, I mean everyone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] See if we can all understand each other, if not the Presidency will constantly be "I call order, I call..." G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Lago Peñas and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by Junta de Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the rise of tariffs in the fees of AP-9
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u166	This motion was tabled with an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u167	Mr. Sánchez has the floor to formulate the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u168	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. You ask them all, but the calls to order fall only on this side. Because in the morning you accepted Mr. Tellado's explanation that he called us that because it was how they popularly knew us. Once in a while I get away as you're popularly known and I always have a call to order. So... let's have the same range. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u169	Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u170	No, no, it's not an insult. I have doubts there because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u171	Mr. Sánchez, let's get to the point. Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u172	Yes. I have doubts there, I don't know if Mr. Feijóo's name is as bad as his dignity or not, but they call him "the aunt" because he kills the workers, etc., Well, let's get to the point. AP-9 is one of the most obvious examples of what has been called friendship capitalism, popularly known. The tip of the iceberg of institutionalized corruption, of legalized theft. There are many more examples, such as privatization in the electricity sector or in telecommunications. In all these cases, different governments have given gifts to friendly companies, popular governments, too, at a price also as a friend, with huge monopolistic businesses, with infrastructures that were previously paid with public money, money from all over the city. The privatization of AP-9 by Aznar, with Mr Feijóo as Counsellor—he said nothing—and the subsequent and progressive consolidation, through agreements and decrees, casts its roots into corruption as a form of Government. You have no other explanation than the complicity of successive governments with the interests of the private company, even at the expense of prejudging most. The report of excessive burdens and charges at the price is endless, the latter, the bids announced for 2018, or even that the abolition of the payout of Round it to Vigo is supported by the rest of the AP-9 users. A coat of hair! Mr. Feijóo and the People's Party throw balloons out, blame the Socialist Party. And the Socialist Party also had some responsibility, but so did the People's Party. Moreover, Mr. Feijóo is complicit and silent in the presence of these decisions of the People's Party in the State, although they seriously and negatively affect the pockets of the Greeks and the Greeks. For example, from this rise in rates that you send to the socialists, Decree 104/2013 signed Mr. Rajoy. The extension of the year 2000 was Mr Aznar's responsibility. The 2004 privatisation was the responsibility of the People's Party. That the agreement involving the Pontevedra-Vigo discount we paid with increased tariffs was the responsibility of the People's Party. Everyone has their mark and they're their responsibility. Therefore, being a German government, it's not worth throwing balloons out. As I've said many times before, Audasa earns nothing more and nothing less than one out of two euros than before taxes; one out of three after taxes. These taxes, of course, go to the state, not to the Galician Union. It's from highways with more complaints, from highways with less personnel per kilometer. That's right. Even the most dividends share among their shareholders. In fact, the data from the company ENA Itinerere, owner of Audasa, its debt refinancing agreements and the group's economic-financial management make it clear that this group chutes Audasa's benefits to clean up its accounts and even favour the sale of Audasa's own business group. In that debt refinancing agreement of the Itinerary Group of 16 January 2016 it was expressly agreed that Audasa should allocate as much benefit as possible to the payment of dividends to the owner entity. This is expressly stated in the public brochure of Audasa's last debt issue. The excessive fees paid by Galician citizenship determine the very high benefits of Audasa that later migrate to the owner group. And not only that, is that the benefits of Audasa and the correlated income of the owner, compensate for the losses of other concessionaires of the State owned by Itinere, as shown in the accounts of the group. And the management of the AP-9 concession, ultimately, serves basically to refinance the group's debt and to be able to do a good deal with its sale. The numbers don't lie, and in the period 2012-2016 Audasa's average debt grew by 202 million, 24%. The rest of the concessionaires reduced their debt by 9.31%. It's the second with higher debt volume, etc. It's a flight of capitals from the country of book, with a real colonial stamp. In the meantime, you, the People's Party, the German Government, Mr Feijóo, the PP Members in Madrid, the PP Members in the Greek Parliament, lower their obedient ears with power, so much so submissive that they lose their dignity. They didn't even have the dignity of raising their voice when there was that shameful, unworthy veto, with lies and manipulation, to the processing of a law that we unanimously approve here. You're a parapet of yours in Madrid, Mr. Rajoy, but you're also a parapet and a useful tool for the business of the company. We've been used to their government practice, too. It's not the first time. They bring in and shut up when they know that Galicia is being attacked and AP-9 transfer is being blocked. It's ultimately business to make friends and friends to do business yesterday, today and in the future. So you don't have any strategy for the rescue of AP-9 and its public management, with a motion of general interest. Because they don't have, they don't have what we ask here: a rescue feasibility study. How do you know the Greeks and the Greeks, how do we know that it would be beneficial for a ransom, a reversal to the public or not, if there isn't an official study made of how much it would cost us and what would be the alternatives to doing it. But you don't want to because you're not interested in transparency in those numbers. It's not new, you shut up, too, when Mr. Feijóo was counsellor and if he privatized AP-9, before all the decrees that shielded the company's business... But, of course, we are not here to shut up, we believe that we have to deal with this repeated policy, for that reason we bring this motion, one of the many initiatives that we have promoted and that have hit — and today it will surely hit — with the changing majority of the People's Party, the Government's and the company's pawns, helping them shield their business. In this motion we propose: first, this study for the viability of the ransom. Why do you object? Why do you refuse to do not even a study by the Galician Government of Galician Union to know the alternatives of this reversal to the public? We believe that with the profit margin this company has, it might be an interesting option to lower the fees, to improve the conditions or not to be the ones doing the business. Then we ask for measures to lower the rates, and that these reductions will affect the profits of the company and not the citizens of Greece. To demand from the State a new tariff policy, so that an overall reduction in AP-9 tariffs is established, and also specific reductions in certain cases which are expressed in the motion. We also ask to condemn the infamous veto of the Spanish Government, Mr Rajoy, who has used spure, liar and anti-democratic methods so that the Congress of Deputies is not expressed democratically. You talk about laws, but you don't have any respect for democracy, and they do. Finally, we also want to urge the Government of the State to leave without effect the agreements with Audasa that allow the increase of tariffs in the fees in the AP-9 in 2018 and next. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u173	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u174	Good afternoon. I want to take them to February 4, 2003. I don't know if you remember where they were, neither do I remember too much. I only know — I see now — what the hemerotheque told us: Aznar was discussing the Iraq War Congress, and Courtney Love was detained at an airport. But for this debate the important thing is another thing, the important thing is to remember that Paco Helmets signed that day the extension of the AP-9 concession until the year 2048. That decision is the one that singularizes AP-9 and brings us here, actually, today. Mr. Feijóo must remember. He was a Territorial Policy Advisor, they were his first days, and surely that was one of the first important issues in which he had to take part in that office. There are even some who say — this is perhaps an urban legend — that the replacement of the Territorial Policy Counsellor was necessary for Mr Casco's signature to take place in the enlargement of the concession because the above is against it. We'll never know if it's like that or not. In any case, a few months after that February 4, 2003, the Galician Union, of which Alberto Núñez Feijóo was an important member, granted the Galician medal to which he would later be known as the CAP and was then Paco Cascos. That's a target data. We can say that somehow those muds come from these muds that we have today. And that's why we have at this meeting even two initiatives on this AP-9 issue. I share with Anton Sánchez—who I take advantage of to congratulate on his recovery—that the pricing policy is unfortunate and unequal. We propose — as we have said — a study committee which analyses not only what is happening on AP-9, but also what happens on highways which are owned by the Galician Union, in order to ensure that there is a more homogeneous tariff policy throughout the territory, which treats all citizens the same, and which also allows for the reduction of excessive rates that are given, in particular, in this infrastructure. It is also true that both in 2011 and in 2012 decisions have been made that, for us today, are too serious. In 2011 with the Government of Zapatero, in 2012 with Minister Ana Pastor, the Government of Mr. Rajoy, who referred and extended the previous agreement. But look! not only does this happen, but it raises the VAT applicable to highways, so it increases the fee paid by citizens, and also a bonus of 7% that came a few years ago and therefore additionally rises the fees until today. That happens in 2012, and those are also rising from the price that brings us to this situation. Well, we don't like that either, and what we want is to find solutions. It seems to us that we have to look in one direction, and that direction is that of the Government of Spain, that of the Ministry of Development, if they need a little more. The AP-9 award is at most 75 years old. In three or four years' time, most of today's highways in Spain will be completed. So we're going to find ourselves in a situation where, if we do what needs to be done -- we'll see -- in most Spain there'll be no highways to the beach, and in Galicia we'll continue to have for twenty-two years a highway to pay too high a price to travel through our territory, which we've once defined here as the main street, the main street of Galicia, a beach that will compromise our competitiveness and our quality of life. And since Galicia will continue to pay for twenty-five years more than in other latitudes it is already available to the public, because it seems to us that the Spanish Ministry of Government Development can well compensate for this situation by introducing far more important bonuses in AP-9, and hence by slowing down the tariff regime and making them much more reasonable. Among other things, by recovering that 7%; assuming from the Ministry of Development itself the cost of works; and negotiating this, therefore, with the concessionary company. I believe that — and here is a discrepancy with what I propose In Marea — we should not address ourselves to the dealership. The concessionaire, within the Spanish legal framework, is doing what she thinks is most appropriate for her interests. You must be required to meet the terms of the concession, but we can't go any further because we're in a state of law. For us the reasonable thing is that what I have to assume is the Ministry of Development, and demand this ministry to treat the Greeks as starting in 2020, 2021, is going to happen in the rest of Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u175	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u176	Good afternoon. We have discussed this subject of the motorway in this plenary session, in this legislature, or in committees, on at least seven or eight occasions, and a number of agreements have been reached. In the course of this time, one of the things that has become clearer is that the People's Party is deeply disturbed by the talk of AP-9. They feel very uncomfortable, they feel defensive, and the truth is that this is not strange to us, because the placard that the People's Party is doing by washing away the shame of the government of the state is not to be noticed. You're putting on the other cheek -- the Welsh PP -- they're being systematically nonexistent and humiliated by Mr. Minister and Mr. Rajoy's Government. They're constantly looking for artifacts to conceal their submission to Madrid and their complicity with all the decisions they're taking, which are damaging to Galicia. And there are these agreements that are systematically broken, and also the announcements that they have no choice but to do sometimes to try to calm down the indignation that spreads throughout the country, such as that follow-up commission, which is a sort of a bill of avalorous that brought you here from Madrid and you are so happy. The last announced was the abolition of the peax between Roundola and Vigo. Of course, we agree that the fee between Round it and Vigo will be abolished. But of course, removing the toll by making it pay to all users of AP-9. If you apply this system, you can also apply it to the beach between Pontevedra and Vilaboa, to the beach between Pontevedra and Curro, to the beach between Santiago and Sigüeiro, or to the beach between La Coruña and Betanzos. I don't know why they're not doing the job anymore. Well, what is clear — as I said — is that complicity with each and every one of the decisions that hurt Galicia and the people who use the highway daily. You are accomplices of the veto to transfer; you are accomplices of the abusive rise of the peaxe; you are accomplices of the bad service that the concessionaire provides; and you are also enthusiastic accomplices and defenders of all the damaging decisions for our country. And the last chapter of this endless succession of injuries took place last December with the inauguration of the works of the Rande bridge on the last working day of the year; a genuine irresponsibility and provocation, because they were — they know — not to finish the works and not to carry out, besides, committed works, for example, in the Town Hall of Roundola, in the parish of Chapel, and that gave rise to a plant of numerous mayors of the area, who did not attend the inauguration. Moreover, it has shown — the fact that they opened on the last working day of the year — the acceleration of the works in recent months, endangering the lives of the people working in the work, with serious accidents, with death, even though the theory about the death of this worker Mr. Pedro Pérez, President of Itinere, is at least curious. And he says, "It's true that in the accident a number of factors brought him some degree of peculiarity. The worker did not use the security provided by the company. His fall was rare, since no one fell head from such a structure. He was a person from Canarias, recently divorced in a tense process, etc.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh How dare you say this gentleman's barbarity pack? But you, of course, keep quiet, give and allow all this: endless work days, extreme conditions, have come to do the full-time load tests. But of course, all this goes for you, and there's nothing to investigate. Then we'll talk about this research issue in our non-law proposal. It turns out that you intend and have agreed with the concessionaire to apply the increase — as they did in the service post at the end of the year — in 2018, when the sixth clause of the agreement makes it clear that it has to be applied the following year to the ordinary auctions, and should therefore be applied in 2019. We'll be careful about this. Some say that Rande's treasure is no longer at the bottom of the river, that Rande's treasure is what crosses the river, that AP-9, that Rande bridge, which is object to the lust of the corsaries, the pirates of the 21st century, who come here to scratch. Of course, the BNG will give is the battle of Rande, the battle of AP-9, each and every day of the year, this year 2018 and the comings. As long as this trouble continues, this outrage, of course we're going to plant for Audasa because you don't. We're going to denounce the deal of favor of Central and German governments because you don't. We're going to fight to stop the abusive ups and downs because you don't. We're going to demand the Catalan AP-9 management because you don't. We're going to demand the quality improvement of the service because you don't. We are going to demand measures to reduce the cost of AP-9 because you are not doing so — you are up to the costs, above all — and we are going to request a study and a commission of inquiry on this matter. Make it clear to them, as you don't, the BNG, of course, will do it every day of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u177	Thank you, Mr Bará. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. A couple of previous considerations. First I'm sorry, Mr. Sánchez, that you consider being from Podemos is an insult to the same level as being corrupt. I'm sorry for you and your bandmates. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, Mr Bará, it will not be the People's Group that defends the recently deceased President of Itinere, Mr Pedro Pérez, but it must be Mr Leicega, because this gentleman was Secretary of State of the Socialist Government, Secretary of State of Economics with the Socialists, and they will be the ones who have to defend him. The People's Group neither the Audasa nor this lord will defend them, nor the Itinerary Group, of course, what he's going to do is to continue to defend the interests of the Greeks. In any case, they already announce it: let's go on, but don't try to hide in the general interest what is a partisan struggle, a struggle between En Marea and BNG to see who has the protagonist of this topic. When one presents an initiative, the next committee presents the BNG, and the next one presents it in Marea with a change in order to politically capitalize, because it's the only thing they're interested in, politically capitalize on this issue. When In Marea presents an appeal of unconstitutionality, you have a commission because you can't stay behind. We know they're going to keep it that way, but they don't hide it in general interest. Anyway, then we'll talk about the BNG because we already have the replica, obviously. If you show up at Marea something, the BNG too, and vice versa. But Mr. En Marea, which is what we are, in the motion, you have the problem you are hearing these days. Of course, speaking has no cancellations, but when they get to where they rule, we have the problems. The other day they reminded them of the urban laws, this morning they reminded him of the health laws, Mr. Tellado of the entrepreneurship laws... that is, they speak one thing, but when they rule they do the opposite, like the invisible remunicipalization they promised us. None, nor the first, on the contrary! Works that before, with the PP governments, were done by officials, now that they have not been remunicidalized, they are outsourced. In any case, when there are contracts and concessions, you must comply, and the laws must be fulfilled, Mr. Sánchez. Democracy is not to vote, it is to comply with the laws. And you can vote because there's a law that enables you. What happens is, of course, to comply with the laws, we know that En Marea doesn't like them. But look, these inconsistencies at the end are paid. Inconsistencies are paid because people can't fool her. People are not stupid and the Greeks are not deceived. They know perfectly well who the competitions are; they know perfectly who fights and who defends their interests; and they know perfectly well who is here for party interests and for a number of other interests trying to generate or capitalize some of these things. Look, people know perfectly well that the People's Party -- and I have to repeat it every time we come here -- doesn't like the beaches. The People's Party now has to apply things signed by the Socialist Party — November 24, 2011, you can consult Mr. Leicega the BOE — now you have to apply those increases. Anyway, we're gonna keep fighting. We're not going to shut up, gentlemen of the BNG. This is what hurts them, we don't shut up. Others voted one thing when they were in the government and another when they were in the opposition, as they do now in other autonomous communities, and also with the highways, because where they rule nothing to ask for transfers and not to lower a fee. Once again, you'll double your message in one place and another! But look, it says, it's humiliation. Fuck! Sorry, president. Carai for humiliation! Care for humiliation, Mr. Bará! I mean, when they used to pay the Greeks 7 million euros a year for the beaches of Barcala-Rande when the socialists co-governed with you, that wasn't humiliation. Now that in Madrid the Central Government pays 7 million and the Union saves them, that's now a humiliation. The double dialogue again. How easy it is to get here and talk. They said in my village: he's a talker; that's to say it's easy to come and say. When others rule, gentlemen of the PSOE, the story will also be applied. How easy it is to arrive now and say: we will ask Madrid to pay now. When Mr. Blanco was a minister, and with triple budgets — triple, 21,000 million for investments — three times what we have now, he said he couldn't assume it. But now yes, now that I pay Madrid. That's the comfortable speech, and it's easy to say, now that we have a third of the investment capacity, which pays Madrid. What I really think is true is what the minister talked about the other day about a state pact of the highways, I think that this is the framework where we have to be and we have to work, not in demagogy, in short solutions or even things that we know are not solutions, that are illegal and that are required in motions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u179	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u180	...to be done, because they know they're impossible to fulfill. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u181	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Author group of the motion, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u182	For me and everyone in my group, we can't be insulting. The People's Party's already... it's snoring there. [[Laughter]] But, in fact, the People's Party looks to be pink that on the poster of the last autonomics well that they hid it, because it remained, right? [[Applause]] I was the thing to hide. [[Applause]] So it's no insult. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What we do miss, when you say that, is a little bit of respect and less proud than what you have when you talk like that, which is what you come to show. You have the conception that the Government belongs to them by divine grace, and then everyone who democratically reaches the Government because they're intruders. Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Councillor Coruñas in the compostelan exile, let me speak. [[Mr. Fernández Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] You've come to talk about complying with the laws, too... No, no, but if I say humor you use it. [[Murmurs.]] You came to speak, the representative of the People's Party, the observance of the law and the rule of law. Look, we obviously respect laws, more than you do, but we want to make another rule of law, because you're the rule of law of the powerful, of course; so we talk about legalized corruption. Of course, if this is a rule of law, give a private company a business that makes it earn 1 out of every 2 euros from the bill up to 2048, without any possible competition, without any risk assumed and with all tied and well tied, because I want to change this rule of law that you built. Just like the rule of law for the privatization of electricity, etc. That's why I'm talking about legalized theft, systemic corruption and corruption in institutions. Yes, sir, this is very obvious for citizenship, which you say is not to be deceived, of course not! They didn't let themselves be fooled in the Coruña either, did they, Mr. Fernández Prado? And that's why after his four years at Pikachu they sent him to the compostelan exile, Mr. Fernández Prado, of course, yes, among other things. [[Applause]] Of course! [[Applause]] [[Mr. Fernández Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]] And then you brought little news in this speech, threw balloons out, because it's indefensible. What you've done with this is indefensible, totally indefensible. That's why he's trying to throw balloons out: a little bit to the BNG, another bit to the PSOE, another bit... to sink the ground. The reality is that their decisions, mostly their decisions — and are written in decrees — are costing millions to the Greeks and to the Greeks. And it's not any of Galicia's situations, it's not comparable to any of the other state autonomys, it's a situation of the worst in the state. We bear the worst ills in the state because of the submission and complicity of the People's Party Government and because you do not want to raise your voice as representatives of the Greek people, and because the president of the Greek people does not, Mr. Feijóo. It's simply because of other interests, not general interests.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u183	The amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u184	I've already pronounced myself before the amendment. But if -- I'm finished already -- what I wanted to tell you is that you say that we use it biasedly; you don't believe it or you. As if there were no objective elements that go to the citizens' pockets to bring this situation here one day and another. Of course, there are objective elements for us to do, and if we didn't, we wouldn't be fulfilling our role. And I'm done. We will certainly reach an agreement with the Socialist Party to have a proposal for an agreement which we jointly support without any problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u185	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the problems caused by the saturation of hospital emergency services in the face of increased cases of flu
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u186	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u187	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. One of the annual classics, the hospital emergencies, which has already been discussed in the previous plenary session and has already been discussed by these dates in the plenary sessions of last year. The feeling is that we're going to offer almost similar arguments, and it's just discouraging that we can't be able to find common points to improve the situation. Maybe we should start over there. We consider, in our group, that the situation is not the best and that it is the best. If someone thinks the situation isn't better, he won't do anything to improve it, as it would be logical. But since our approach, what happens in emergencies, when the peaks of the flu come especially, it's a very better situation. If we believe that the whole system works perfectly and optimally, we wouldn't bring these proposals. But we'd like to know, really, whether they think it's better or not from the People's Party and actually know what they think it can be optimized, to see if we can solve a debate that's going to become chronic and, therefore, it's only going to be repeated over and over again without being able to give it a possible solution. It's so common this debate that we already have three steps normally established when the flu peak arrives. In January the flu arrives, the system is saturated and we have this debate, assuming that the People's Party defends that everything has been done well and that the fault is one year that there is a very different flu, another that the sick go too far to hospitals. And the truth is that the only thing that can vary from year to year is to know what the excuse for the next year will be — even bets open. But even in that situation — as I would say — we can discuss the subject with a view to discussing it. Which of the solutions would be, from our point of view, good for solving the emergency? We have a diagnosis made, which those who follow the interventions in health know. There's a very serious staff problem in the health system, we need more staff, which we have is insufficient. It's very good, it has an unattainable human and professional quality, its performance is far above what could be expected, but it's little, and, as little, we have saturation problems. It's low on two levels: it's low on hospital care and it's low on primary care. Because the emergency problem is emergency, but it's not an emergency problem. The reality that we observe in hospitals is that there are saturations — a lot of saturations — that are made huge work excesses to respond to problems. Because you know -- well, because some people are professionals in the healthcare system, and because others are users -- that it's impossible for a system professional to go home calmly and not worry about the people who get in, the people who were being cared for, that don't really think about how the system is left, and that probably didn't work the time that marked his schedule, but it was much longer than necessary. But we can't squeeze the system on the basis that people work more than they do on or on the basis of an over effort. Because we're going to have within a very short time — if we're not already starting to have — a problem of low work rates for burning, for problems associated with excess work, for saturation. We have a problem with the staff, which we're spreading too much because we don't hire anymore. Often—not if a certain dose of irony, well thought out in that case—from the People's Party they call for data—I think it is said today— depending on the voicer, depending on the day, depending on what he's talking about, different. To me the most surprising thing is that the counselor every day he talks gives a different data from the staff there is. It's more, now since the People's Party and the Government of the Union, a personal data from the health system is given than they say in their own budgets; I understand it's difficult; when budgets are lies, it's very difficult to keep a lie. Because the staff that exists, which is budgeted, is not the same as what exists; and therefore it is very difficult to bear that lie. Today, since it is Abraham Lincoln's day — and I'm going to quote him by memory — he said that no one is so perfect that he can constantly lie successfully — or a similar quote. So someone tells me where those 1,500 professionals are more when the number of professionals in the budgets is in the 35,000 or so. Where are those 1,500 more? And if those are 35,000 and a little bit of peak working or not. And no one will be able to sustain that they're working, because it's not true; about 1 out of every five, or, what's the same, 7,000 out of 35,000 aren't occupied in a stable way in the system. When they're not occupied in a stable way, what do you mean? It means they're places that are covering themselves eventually. You're using that money to cover posts with people you hire for hours, for days, for weeks; some are lucky and hired even for months. What's the matter? That with these saturations these professionals are overcome, because when saturation problems come, the system is not prepared to accommodate that number of people, and they obviously deal late — as it cannot be otherwise in this system. And, in addition, it gives an impression that we thought and wanted to know what the position of the People's Party is. Do we have to have about 800-1,000 professionals in this system, especially doctors, waiting to live the whole year only of the two months of summer and the peak of Christmas flu? Do we have to have 1,000 people just waiting for that? Because that's the model we're living in, people who have a problem that they're not hired by the system, that they get irrationally, absolutely inefficient, and that the People's Party pulls out of them just to say that it usually does it after the problems come. There's an excessive use of emergency services -- it's argued -- it's the burden of the sick, as if they get sick? If the professionals are on vacation, you get sick at another time, because you don't get sick when there's no professionals, because, if you don't, they're going to give you a problem and then these very bad opposition will come and tell us we're doing bad things. They're asking users not to go to the hospital to go to the primary care points. But right now we have the delay, the delays in appointments in greater primary care than we've ever had. Because we have a problem with replacing the casualties and vacations of primary care professionals. We have health centers that are low in numbers of professionals. There's a serious staff problem. And the problem with everything is that you know, the feeling is that it doesn't matter too much. There's a professional problem against the Council. In the past, we present here numerous interventions, media outlets, statements by professionals, heads of service, emergency professionals, patient associations... that reminded the Board that more personnel were needed — they are here, we can search them again. And when you always defend that professionals have to be cared for, why don't you take care of these? Why don't you listen when professionals tell you there's not enough staff? Why? Because we can't find another explanation. If it's not personal, why are emergency services filled? I know you're going to tell me that the problem isn't just German, that there's a flu peak in other places; in Sweden, we were told the other day. Who would have given us the levels of life they have in Sweden for other things too! Let's see if they set the example for many other questions. Sweden would be a good example for many things, we can use it. I'm talking about this problem because if we're going to use Valencia again... but each one takes the models he wants. And I'm sure Paco Correa in Sweden would do miracles too. But if you're going to have to argue that there's also a problem outside Galicia, that in other years there's also been a problem, that the system works very well, but it's saturated by miraculous issues, we're never going to solve the matter. We raised two things in this motion — all revolutionaries — first, we asked for a report. I know this is absolutely subversive, this is a Jewish conspiracy of neo-communists, socialists anchored in the 19th century: asking for a report, data. We want to know what the performance protocols are and whether they are met or not. And we want to know because maybe even we can bring something -- I know that you don't think so -- Maybe we can check if protocols are actually activated properly, if extra staff than hospital emergencies are provided is correct; or we can have some opinion; there are even many professionals who would like to see that report. We asked for a report. Revolutionary, Marxist-Leninist this: asking for data. Secondly — and here we are going to have problems — raising the allocation of material and human resources, because we do this analysis. We're open to you to make another one. Let them tell us if there really isn't a staff problem or where the problem is, and why the system is tired. Those are the two things we asked for. They don't have much hope. Why? Because they're the ones we asked for last year and they told us they weren't necessary, they were already fixing it. Mr. President also said that they would have solved the problem, since the beginning of November, that he apologized. And they didn't do anything. So you see that, with all your willingness to reassure the debate — which today has been a bit polarized — of galeguisizing the debate — not to mention Ricardo Costa again, who is Valencian, to try to put on the table that there is a problem that we can share among all but that we can solve among all, we bring this simple proposal: data and the increase of staff. If you think the problem isn't personal, tell us once where the problem is, unless you think there's no problem and it's all a lie, that there weren't sick people stacked in hospitals, that there was no accumulation of shirts in the corridors and that people were just waiting for a few minutes and that everything was solved perfectly. If that's your reality, then, of course, there will be no problem, but then the problem will be yours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u188	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u189	So we have to keep talking about emergencies, collapses, saturation, a problem that the People's Party Government half recognized, but, in any case, after recognizing that there is a problem, no measure to solve it. We see, from the BNG, the People's Party installed to want to kill the messenger and, far from giving solutions, insisting machaconically that we deceive and give false arguments. So today, I'm going to read part of a letter from an emergency doctor, who's been circulating through social networks, a January 9 letter that says: "I'm 42 years old, I've been a doctor since I was 19 years old, and I've been working in hospital emergencies since I was 17 years old. I love my work, I love healing, I like people, I can't imagine dedicating myself to anything else. Yesterday it was Monday and I had a turn. Today my legs hurt, but most of all my soul hurts and for moments I don't think I'll be able anymore. At 8:00 in the morning I finished my shift signing a death certificate and I've been wearing a knot in my throat all day. I don't know if to scream or cry. Probably both. I'm not sad about that, because my last patient was 98 years old, died quietly, accompanied by his family, in the intimacy of a box. It would have been a lot better if I could have died in her bed. But this isn't the most serious thing. I'm sad about all those patients who received me yesterday with a smile and a "thank you" after waiting seven hours to be cared for, also for those who needed a camel and we couldn't give it to them, and for those other lucky ones who had it but who would pass over those 10 inches of foam mattress the next 24 hours. I'm sad because I feel like a hamster running on a endless wheel without ever reaching a destination. There are unpredictable things — a serious accident, a catastrophe — but there are others who are not. And the flu enters this last group. It may come sooner or later, but it's always enough. So someone should have thought about what we could do to minimize its effects. True, we have a very old population that is particularly susceptible to this disease, but the elders didn't fall from the sky yesterday. For years we've been warning about this problem, so maybe someone should think about what kind of care model we need. The point is that it is not popular to say that it will invest in hospitals of chronic patients or that primary care will be strengthened...". Well, he follows the letter a little longer, but as I don't have much time, he ends up saying, "Well, there seems to be someone who hasn't done his job well, someone to whom we vote every four years, but who just plans to renew another four, go through the time without great scandals and go to the next election campaign and we'll tell him about the resonances and the run. And we're so stupid that we swallow and dedicate ourselves to yelling at the nurse who's taking care of us as she can in an emergency in the middle of a sea of camels. We agreed to replace the sick fellow without requisitioning, we kept running and crying when we arrived home after a hellish turn, like hamster in his daughter-in-law. But I don't want to be a hamster. I love being a doctor. I just want to be able to do it in dignity."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Prado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u191	Don't listen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u192	Sorry, I thought it was over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u193	...what we have to tell them here, they call us alarmists, they say we systematically resort to misleading the population. But at least listen to the professionals. Some dare to put it in writing, many others berray in intimacy, but the reality is that you look elsewhere and basically systematically treat the best that the public health system in Galicia has, which is its staff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u195	Thank you, President. We are going to support this motion, obviously. We have done so with all the initiatives that have been discussed in this same way in this part-session, in the past and, of course, those which we ourselves have brought to this House. It's almost certainly revolutionary to ask for a report, because unfortunately, the data requested is not provided. And sometimes it would seem comical, but it's quite regrettable to ask on many occasions for data, numerical data, reports, and meet with empty hands despite the obligation to provide them. And in the morning I used that data, which is no less, that the Board of Auditors denounces that only the Hospital Complex of Salnes and Pontevedra have a financial control report. We don't know if it's done, if it's not done, what the data is, and it's really worrying about the abandonment in this direction. But in addition to what it has to do with the templates, we agree. We've been transferred on other occasions that we find it not enough to talk simply about emergency service templates. I think it's something shared, generally, in the opposition; because we've discussed it at other times, also in the Health Committee, but obviously it would be of great help. And it would be of great help because today's emergency services are still saturated, after a month and a half, almost two months in which services are, day by day, with patients in corridors too, with data that exceed the average usual care in practice all hospital centers of the Galician Health Service. A few weeks ago, the health adviser said — a couple of weeks ago, I think, I remember — that he was already sending the flu peak, that they were already sending the collapses in the emergencies, that everything was all right and that from now on it could only get better. Well, as I said in the morning, the University Hospital Complex of Ourense is again in trouble, with saturation. Tonight they were not worthy of strengthening the emergency service until the last hour, and it was not to open some of the rooms that could have opened, or that closed plant of the mother, but to care for the patients in the corridors —10 there were in the corridors the same night more than the 26 that were already in the observation room sharing a single bathroom—. We've already moved here the indignity that is supposed to be in that situation. And despite that, no action is taken. Or we could talk about the situation of the Clinic, of the University Hospital Complex of Santiago de Compostela, which in recent hours has surpassed quite a half, above the usual with growth: 505 in emergencies in the last 24 hours, 84 of them pediatrics. And despite the insistent protest of medical unions, the Health Council and its manager, Mrs. Eloina, continue to take no action to strengthen this service, with deaf ears to everything that happens in emergency services. We've moved on many occasions that we believe the emergency problem has two aspects. One is in specialized care, not simply referring to what it has to do with emergency personnel per se, as a service, but to all of what it means to have plants and to have closed beds. And I have to remember here that, after early December last year Mr. Feijóo moved his public apology -- although he did not take any measure later because of the saturation of the emergency services -- just a few weeks later he moved a rather cruel comment saying that what he had to do was, in the rooms already there, put more beds. This, when there are plants and there are closed wings in Galician hospitals, it's not only a cruel comment, but a comment by someone who has little idea of how the Health Council and the Galician Health Service are managed; which is surprising considering their past manager within the health world. But, in addition to this circumstance, there is another that is quite obvious, and that we also move in the debate in the morning, which is the situation of primary care. Only 13% of the budget goes to primary care, with a cut of professionals that has been practically, not to the whole, but the whole of the professional cut since the amortization of squares began in 2010. And the reality is that an budget that should reach 25% is at 13%, with 1,100 professionals less. And the reality is that health centers have waiting lists and are unable to care for all the patients. And obviously -- and we've already discussed it on another occasion -- when they don't attend an appointment in a week, in eight days, in ten days, they obviously attend emergency services. So the resolution of the problem — and I'm finished because I don't have time — obviously goes by increasing these templates and improving the situation of primary care. If not, it is clear that this will not be solved either now or this year or for the coming year. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u197	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. You will allow me, Mr. Torrado, to refer to Valencia in fifteen seconds, because you told me whether you were talking to the fellows about removing the amendment altogether. Well, look, the amendment to the whole was introduced, first and foremost, because that preliminary draft or that project you presented by the way of urgency, by the way of urgency!; secondly, because the documentation to the opposition groups was not provided; and thirdly, because the main motivation that led to the realization of that change is no longer in the preliminary draft. Of course I don't think they're going to pull her off. We discuss for the third time in three weeks the subject of collapse or emergency overload or saturation, and I, in fact, would bother to bore them. Figures and actions have already been given by the advisor, and I think those are the figures for reality. In fact, there were emergency problems for several reasons that have already been mentioned. There was an epidemic of flu that has moved ahead with other years; and the virus is different, not included in the vaccine. With regard to the inadequate use of emergency services by citizens, it is not an exclusive assertion by the People's Party or the Government of Galicia, not even by the Greek political authorities, but by any other autonomous community, even those governed by the Socialist Party. Professionals — up to 84% — in surveys already cited, consider themselves to be misused. Service heads in all communications speak of this. And this last Friday there was an article in The Voice of Galicia that says: "Doctors estimate that 40% of emergencies are an overload. Trade unions argue that many cases should be treated in primary care." And he speaks of a doctor, named Ramón Barreiro, who says that he is "member of the Staff Board, of the Platform for the Defence of Public Health and of the State Confederation of Medical Unions": "We are clear that about 40% of the emergencies coming to the hospital are not, that they could actually be resolved from the primary care center." I think politicians are blaming us for something we don't say. President Feijóo himself acknowledged that there were problems and talked about increasing beds in exceptional situations at the cost of comfort. In favour of this proposal many professionals have been shown; and, on the contrary, some association, which has called it ignorant, and also a Greek lady who has stated in a newspaper that "the president, in the face of the saturation of emergencies, is in favour of putting more beds in the rooms as if the hospitals could convert them into a hostel of pilgrims with beds or was insinuating us that we have to bring out of the house an incredible mattress to put where we can." I think the difference between professionals and opinionaries is clear. I would like to know how you may be constantly talking about a staff problem in Galicia and that in the autonomous community that best pays the professionals and better considered, which is the Basque Country, headlines appear saying: "They enable 80 beds in Cruces after the complaint of emergency collapses, collapses and waits for up to seven hours in the Vitoria emergencies" or "The trade unions warn of the collapse of emergencies and primary care due to lack of personnel" — Northern Diario. What is the answer to the Socialist Party's public charges when asked about this situation? The Health Counsellor of the Board of Andalucia is clear — as the counselor said —: "Health denies the collapse in the emergencies in Andalusia and argues that the alarm is due to parties and unions. It says "that there is an increase in demand in emergencies, but the answer is very effective. What happens is that there are trade union parties and organizations that in Christmas and summer put the issue above the table." And when he ruled the BNG and the PSOE at the Galician board, the BNG spokesman -- we talked about the other day -- he was talking about a Japanese strike. By the way, in that plenary session, Mrs. Prado Cores said that if you were to register an initiative on this subject, it would be good for you for the next ten years if the Government did not take action immediately. I don't know if what's going on right now is the fault of what's been done ten years ago or whether it has any kind of electoral possibility or hope for the next ten years in our autonomous community. Back to the topic, the socialist spokesman in those debates of the year 2008 asked, "What is going on to get this alarm up from a media and professional point of view?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh It seems he was insinuating a conspiracy between professionals and the media. Or the Coruña primary care manager, who said, referring to primary care doctors -- he was theirs -- "It's funny that they take the bass right when they have to cover absences." It was that time of fax, order and command and records to the professionals. But, of course, as they were ruling in Santiago, it seems that in Carballo, there was a problem with the telephone lines and they didn't ask for any more lines or more professional lines, they didn't ask for lines or professional lines, what they were asking was to do an internet workshop for rural people in 2008, so they learned how to ask for an online appointment. In short, there is a general problem of overload in hospitals' emergencies for which the various health services, Spanish and other countries, enable extraordinary measures. In the case of Galicia, contingency plans have been developed, professionals have been hired and beds have been enabled. We are going to reject the motion because we believe that appropriate measures have been taken in terms of personnel and resources, within the possibilities for hiring professionals — especially doctors — which allows for the current shortage of optional ones. I agree with what the manager of Sergas said, that certain subjects should be depolitized. And I know that many health professionals of different political colors who now hold positions in politics think the same thing as I do. On the spot of sterile debates between government and opposition, not only in Galicia but in any other autonomous community, I think we must involve ourselves in politicians and also involve professionals and users to improve this situation, each in the part that might fit them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u198	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. For the motion's own group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u199	Thank you, President. I would like to thank the support expressed by En Marea and the Galego Nationalist Block for this motion. And then, the truth is, I wanted to give some answers to some of the questions that were raised, but I feel like they didn't, but they asked me. The health advisor of Valencia, the health advisor of the Basque Country, will have to pass through here today, but I think he also mentioned the health advisor of Andalusia. Today he left Asturias — I say it if he wants to, too, good people, Asturias, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think you should also remember that in Aragon... I say we can get all the advisors through here. Of course, it's not a German problem. Well, the climate change, neither. And I hope you guys have some measure. It is also true that, having president's cousins there, it's a bad question to ask. [[Applause]] But anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u200	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u201	Thank you, Mr. President. Whenever I speak... I have some fans around... Mr. Tellado, you're also my fan... If you want, Mr. Tellado, I also consider him a fan. [[Laughter]] I didn't consider myself as level as for you to be my fan... [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u202	Silence! Quiet, please! Don't turn this... Please! We have guests in the gallery. Please, shut up!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u203	If I can go on... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah? Don't you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u204	Please, Mrs. Romero, please! You know what Mr. Torrado is like... please don't pick him, please! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u205	If it's gonna be my fault now!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u206	You know him. It's something I don't understand, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u207	Since the thing is so good, you told me about 2008 -- Mr. Núñez Centeno -- and I'm not going to tell you what your spokesperson said in 2008. Since we're so good at it... because I'm like that, I'm like this. Remember that at that time they called the counsellor inept and asked him to resign, remember. You won't see me call the advisor inept and ask him to resign for this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u208	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u209	No, Mr. Puy, I didn't call him inept. You call it papanatas to the opposition. I didn't call any advisor inept. No, because we can have all the parliamentary debate that they want, but there are issues that will not draw my attention to. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u210	Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u211	If you'll excuse me... you can call anyone you want, but I didn't call any advisor. So, if you'll let me follow, thank you very much. Well, the only conclusion on this subject — in addition to the fact that you vote for it very much that some of us speak from here and that we are papalates — is: what's the problem? Why do hospitals get sick? From our point of view, because there's a staff problem. You all defend that there's no staff problem. If there's no personal problem, are we assuming that it's impossible to cool down that, when the flu peaks come and some problems come in summer, we have these problems all the time every year? We believe that it is possible to solve them, and we believe that it is possible, since you were talking about paying attention to professionals, Mr Centeno — and that many of them demand more professionals — that they be cared for. Because they, many of the professionals, the people who work in hospitals, who manage health systems -- even at the same time -- say, they say, more professionals would better solve the system. Would it be perfect? Never. Would we have any problems? We would. But it's possible to solve the system if we have more professional. And right now we have one of the worst ratios of professionals per patient from all over Spain, and we have the lowest number of recruits from all over Spain at times when there's saturation. So if we get through this, if we move on to it, it's possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u212	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u213	He knows we're just asking him to hire staff and some reports. I'm telling you, if your argument to amend the health law of the Valencian Community was that they didn't report, you can tell your colleagues to come here and object three or four hours, and I'm going to tell them the information you give. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u215	Yes, Mr. Puy, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u216	To record that no member of the People's Parliamentary Group has called any members of the opposition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u217	Silence! This has been explained, explained. We can give him the rounds he wants, but this has been explained. It was an appearance of the Economic Counsellor who spoke of "political papapatism." [[Strong murmurers.]] We're going to vote, which is the most important. We have guests, in addition, that I take advantage of to greet. We have guests in the rostrum and I think we should behave. We voted, the most important act of a Member. Let's vote. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u218	In the votes, please concentrate on making no mistakes. We voted for the motion of the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao. The amendment tabled by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was accepted. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. in Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia in the field of social services. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u219	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Sanchez. A compromise proposal was pending with the Socialist Parliamentary Group. If he doesn't... Please give a voice to the chair. And read it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u220	Yes. "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to develop an immediate feasibility study that includes the possible economic cost, the tariff impact and possible alternatives to its financing. Secondly, given the broad margins of profit, the Government of the State must demand a new tariff policy, so that an overall reduction in AP-9 tariffs is established and reductions to users who, among other things, may be considered..." I don't keep reading, which is the same. And in the third, an amendment that was a substitute becomes an addition, with two points from the third point of the Socialist Party; and the fourth bis, incorporated at the end.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u221	Thank you. We therefore vote for this transaction. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. Mr de In Marea, at the initiative of Mr José Lago Peñas and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by Junta de Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the rise in tariffs at the rates of AP-9. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u222	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the problems caused by the saturation of emergency services in hospitals in the face of increased flu cases. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u223	These votes have been completed. Open the doors, please. We move on to the fourth point of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the labour claims of the union representatives of the staff of the Galician Justice Administration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u224	This motion for a non-legislation tabled an amendment by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales and by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u225	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u226	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon to the representatives of the unions of Justice who are attending our speeches. Too bad I can't greet the vice president, Mr. Rueda, who doesn't even come to hear what we have to tell him. On December 7, Mary — the fictitious name — was in her car on the way to the trial. After years of education, I was looking forward to seeing the person who had ended his man's life again, and angrily wanted his sentence. He came to that building of Ourense, so young, so neat, so clean, so inhospitable, and he met with the strike and the suspension of the trial without knowing how much longer he would have to wait to see that much-needed repair. Unfortunately, Mary has not been nor will she be the only one who will be in that situation. Tomorrow is likely to happen exactly the same in other places. Ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Union is turning to the fact that Justice in our autonomous community is running its last career. It's time to move from the iron bikes to the carbon fiber bikes. The platoon diminishes year after year because they don't cover the casualties when they get sick, discounts are made that don't be made to another staff, no new squares are created, there's increased workload and the sponsor pays less. The truth is that the people who form the Galician Justice team have lost on average, between 2013 and 2016, the equivalent of three extra payments; that there are 106 squares less than in 2012; that Galicia has nearly 25% fewer staff than other autonomous communities; that you lie when they say that 36 new squares will be created, because they are actually 36 reinforcements that will not be available, hopefully until the end of this year; that the specific supplement that officials receive in Galicia is the third lowest of the twelve autonomous communities that have justice transferred to Spain; and that those responsible, the general director, Mr. Rueda and Mr. Feijóo, do not dare to negotiate with the Montor Minister. The platoon is getting tired. The CEO of Justice is a charismatic leader but he follows the wheel of the car, where the vice president goes, apparently wanting to finish his own career, under the careful look of the sponsor of all this, President Feijóo, blessing the full tour. The start-up stage of the race, on November 14, last year, was a disheartening thing. There were few, and they were starting from nine years of the total -- as I said before -- of the 12 autonomous communities with Justice transferred to Spain. Then on December 1st began the queen stage, the first strike in the history of Justice in Galicia, with a follow-up of more than 80%. That day I would expect the Wheel itself to come down from the superiority of his car and recognize, in the first person, right here, an important follow-up, of course appreciable, and of course, "to take account," he literally said. Since then they have spoken after each stage, though it is true that with abstract documents, without amounts or deadlines, and even without concrete economic offers. Actually, the car was already setting up with the sponsor, and the two of them just wanted the mountain stage, which they had to face, to be with the general director again as the leader of the entire platoon. And so they came to the stage of December 13th, with a vice president who never understood the meaning of dialogue, and who hasn't left the car for eight years, even to greet the corridors. But the spirits of the team didn't go down, they wanted to sweat together, especially because in this House, in this very place, you had the courage to vote in favour of our motion, which was approved unanimously. And then came the rest day at the Galego Labour Relations Council, there the Greeks dreamed of a solution thanks to the work of its president. There were three meetings, and it is true that progress has been significant: progress on labour problems, progress on three of the five points claimed, compliance with the obligation to deliver data by the Government, which had been claimed for years by the unions, and even the physical presence of an administrative right professor who offered his report. But the mediator misjudged her forces, pressed for the Director General of the Public Service to be negotiated, being present with light and tachygraphs. And so much transparency didn't like either the sponsor or the scout car, who decided that we should follow that ball leader again and that the rest days were over. They were the ones who got up from the table and annihilated mediation, nullifying the Galician Council of Labour Relations and therefore — it is also a pity that it had not remained in its seat — and the Employment Counsellor. So they arrived at the mountain stage on January 25th, with a new mass strike day, of almost 90%, and with a historic demonstration on the streets of Santiago de Compostela: about 2,000 people shouting for their rights, when there are about 2,700 officials of Justice in Galicia. Unfortunately, from the beginning the president, Feijóo, and the vice president, Rueda, showed what they really are: rulers with doubles, who here vote one thing, but who then do the opposite by blaming those gentlemen who are up there and who represent the more than 2,700 workers of Justice. They're rulers unable to negotiate. It seems Feijóo is able to negotiate when he goes to Madrid his things, and he is even able to negotiate in Israel, but he is not able to negotiate anything with those gentlemen and those ladies who are up there. All they know how to do is to threaten, whether with an instruction from that finished leader, announcing that he will not grant days of his own affairs or vacations, and that he will revoke those already approved, or either with a minimum, initial, absolutely insatiable service decree, for the team of the seven unions, so he assumes that he could work more people than there are now on a template in trials such as La Fonsgrada, Becerreá, Muros or Arzua. So insatiable and so absurd that from the beginning of the offer of that minimum service decree to what it was published today, and which has just been approved by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, it has radically varied, it has improved in everything the unions asked for, except in the exclusive civil records, clearly below what was indicated for the days of strike of December and January. This variation shows that Mr. Rueda — the one in the car sweeps — the sponsor — Mr. Feijóo — and that monkey leader — who is the director general — are three managers with certain uses as regards the negotiation of minimum services. As I said, a decree so absurd that at the time there were more personnel in minimal services than in a template in some judges. The Government's offer of a remuneration increase is EUR 25 per month for managers, EUR 21 for processors and EUR 18 for aid. It offers worse than the previous one, because it will have effects from January 1st, and it will be done in three exercises: 2019, 2020 and 2021, even after perhaps now the President of the Board — the sponsor — ceases to be President of the Board because there is a new legislation. So bad is the offer that Galicia will continue to be Spain's ninth autonomous community, under – both of you – of Andalusia and Asturias, and never at the top of the table, always half down. As far as casualties are concerned, the Government proposes to continue to speak at a negotiating table, but no longer to the president of the Galician Labour Relations Council. In the equalization of salary for replacements, the Government only undertakes to collect that report from a university professor who was already in the Galician Labour Relations Council almost two months ago. Tomorrow is February 7th, and tomorrow the Justice team in Galicia is running a new stage, it can be the last race: the consequences can be unpredictable, the economic and social irreparable damage, and so have they said, too, the official communiqués of the Greek prosecutors' councils and the Galician lawyer, and the latter puts the gesture in which the strike will inevitably involve a serious breach in the functioning of a public service as transcendent to citizenship as is justice. And, as in all careers, the ultimate responsibility will be for the leader — the director general — of the team manager who goes in the car brush — Mr. Rueda — and the sponsor, who really makes the decisions, who is President Feijóo. Not from the platoon, who daily his shirt to reach the goal and win, because the time has come to pass from the iron bikes to the carbon fiber. Today we ask, again, for labour rights and more personal rights, and for you to open a period of permanent dialogue with the seven trade unions — truly and transparently —
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u227	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u228	...—endorsed, President—to equate wages with the workers of other autonomous communities—those who are above the table, not below, like Andalusia and Asturias, which consolidate the squares that respond to structural needs and that rest all the amortized squares; that is, more personal and that recognize the economic work of workers and workers of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u229	Thank you very much. We now turn to the intervention of the parliamentary groups. Mr Bará Torres has the floor on behalf of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u230	Thank you, good afternoon. First of all, I would like to welcome the union representation that accompanies us in the rostrum and lament the absence of the Counsellor for Justice, who should be here witnessing this debate, and who is not, but who is absent as a former absentee all this time, even without being worthy of receiving in all these years as advisor the union representatives, a real shame! And why did we get to this situation? We arrived at this situation because tomorrow there was an indefinite strike by the policy of the People's Party of Deterioration and systematic dismantling of public services throughout the state, but, above all, in a more intense way in Galicia, because here they sought to be the state champions of cuts, the application of harmful measures for the personnel of the Administration of Justice and, in general, the Public Administration, which over these years have lost approximately 25% of their salary. And this deterioration was particularly accused in the Administration of Justice of the worsening working conditions, of the worsening working spaces, of the shortage of means, of the reduction of staff, and also of the obvious discrimination at the level of labour and wage conditions that the dependent workers of the Galician Union suffer in comparison not only with other State communities, and other territories of the state, but also within the very same bodies of Justice. And of course, the staff, at this point, already said enough, we're full of five years of cuts, and they've raised a series of claims before the Galician Union. They tried to negotiate these wage and labor improvements, by the way, on a unitary union platform, where there are the seven trade union organizations representing the sector, which is also worthy of recognition and praise, because it's not easy for the seven trade union organizations to agree on these five joint demands. And after the summer, negotiations were put on the sectoral table and they met with the closure by the Directorate-General for Justice, a closure of which the vice president of the Chair, Mr. Rueda, has the primary responsibility. From there began a series of mobilizations, first of all in November, and then the days of strike in December, also a new day of strike in January and a massive mobilization in which he participated, practically, most of the staff of the Administration of Justice, and this is why there was no other remedy left than to go to these mobilizations, because they met with this absolutely inflexible posture, those doors closed in counseling, this lack of dialogue by the Directorate-General of Justice; an absolutely prepotent attitude, provocative statements by Mr. Rueda, who acted here as a fiery fireman, and also the manipulation or attempt to manipulate union demands, which even yesterday arrived at an intervention — because of this, of course, they count with the invaluable collaboration of the Galega Television, in their usual objectivity—with statements from the general director of Justice. Interestingly, union representatives on Gallega Television cannot go, but the Director General of Justice does lend this channel so he can transmit these demonstrations that try to distort union claims. By the way, too, those gross manoeuvres to torpedo the agreements, those agreements or those advances that were made in the negotiation, as the socialist spokesperson said, at the Galego Labour Relations Council, with the mediation of the president of the Galego Labour Relations Council, who curiously, as progress was made, remained out of negotiation. So, at this point, when we arrive at this call for indefinite strike, which will take place from tomorrow onwards, the BNG expresses — as we have done on other occasions in which this debate has taken place — support for these massive demands of the staff of the Administration of Justice, support for this initiative of the Socialist Group, which we also add 3 concrete proposals, 3 amendments which refer, first, to something that must be done by the Government, which is to acknowledge massive support for the mobilizations and the strike days. At the same assemblies that took place last week, there was support for the call that began tomorrow, more than 73%, a call for negotiation and dialogue. We also ask the Government to avoid statements that attempt to create confusion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u231	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u232	...wrong statements attempting to create confusion, and we also call for the mediation of the president of the Galician Labour Relations Council, because that mediation was precisely how progress was made in negotiations. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u233	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Moreira Ferro has the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u234	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. We also welcome the union representatives present today in the rostrum, and I want to begin by saying that the Government of Galician Union has always been ready to dialogue and to negotiate with the representatives of the workers, the administration of justice, but this parliamentary group too. And in the People's Party's Parliamentary Group we always received everyone, and that's why we were surprised that representatives of the Justice staff strike committee decided not to invite the People's Parliamentary Group to a meeting that seemed to have been held last week. We don't understand why, because we receive everyone. And it is difficult to find an explanation for not wanting to sit with the majority parliamentary group, especially when two agreements were adopted in this Parliament in December, supporting their demands unanimously. Agreements which would not have been possible had they not been adopted with the support of the People's Party. [[Applause]] So in order to be able to negotiate, we have to dialogue, if there is no dialogue, it's hard to negotiate. But the doors of the People's Parliamentary Group are always open, and if someone passes by these doors, he has to explain to his representatives why he does not want to dialogue with the People's Party Group. In any case, we trust that there is a responsibility to reach an agreement, because otherwise what will be achieved will be to harm the users of the Administration of Justice. We are now dealing with a proposal from Mrs Vilán, which is a proposal from November 2017, registered. After that we have reached two agreements here, and now you have an agreement here to modify what we have agreed unanimously. I think you saw what was there and said: I'm going to try to recover an already outdated proposal and take it to Parliament by disavowing an agreement that you have unanimously supported here. Because the terms are not the same as you, on two occasions, approved here unanimously. I don't know what intentions you will have, Mrs Vilán, and the Socialist Party, but of course, it seems that they are breaking apart and undermining this agreement adopted unanimously. On the pay balance, I mean that most of the claims that are on the table were the subject of consensus. Wage claim? For the administration has made an economic offer of wage increase which enables the average of the amounts received by this concept to be paid in the rest of the territories. It would therefore increase to this body of managers EUR 900 per year; for processors, EUR 744 per year; and for aid, EUR 660 per year. And with this increase, if we look at what the table would look like with the rest of the autonomous communities, we would be that in the management body, at the 9th — 19th —; in the transmitter body, at the 8th — 19; and in the relief body, at the 7th — 19th —. They would therefore be on a higher salary than they received from the Ministry of Justice, and also higher from the officials of the Union and even from communities such as La Rioxa, Catalonia, Aragon and those currently managed by the ministry. [[Murmurs.]] In addition, it would increase the Greek IPC and a target complement for the Gender Violence Court officials. And in view of this, what is requested is the increase of 3,240 euros per year, which represents between 12 and 16% of increase, which is frankly insumable from the material and budgetary point of view, but which is also unacceptable from the legal point of view, because these increases are not allowed by state legislation. Secondly, in the consolidation of structural needs squares there is a principle of agreement to convert posts which take more than three years for temporary contracts into fixed posts. In the replacement of amortized squares also 5 were amortized in 2012 to create so many others in that same year in different trials. And another five were amortized later, but they created 84 new ones, not counting the 36 reinforcement consolidation squares that will be created this year and that are already budgeted. So one has to consider, too, that these depreciations are for natural causes, because retirements are taking place and also because there is less competition in the peace courts, and therefore fewer effective, fewer officials are required to be able to develop their work and keep the justice of peace in proper operation. And, therefore, we support — as we have already said in the other agreements that we approve here — the legitimate demands of the various sectors involved in the Administration of Justice. And in this case, the officials of the general bodies of management, processing and relief that work in Galicia. And what we ask, Mrs Vilan, is that we keep that agreement, that they don't break it. And, of course, we're not going to accept lessons on pay increases from the only party in Spain that has reduced them, which has lowered their salaries to public officials. We won't let you, Mrs. Vilan. [[Applause]] And we want to raise wages... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u235	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u236	...but we'll have to climb them inside the reasonable. I think what's being put on the table is reasonable. And if we make a final conclusion, look, on the topic of consolidation of squares and structural needs there is a principle of agreement; in the replacement of amortised squares there is a principle of agreement; in the payout during the first few days of discharge there is a commitment by the Galician board to make a working group; and in the vertical replacements there is a commitment to make a proposal and to order a proposal to visualize the possibility of doing so legally. And I see the only drawback is the theme of pay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u237	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u238	I think this is a case that can be overcome. So what is clear is that the Galician Government, the Galician Union, is taking on and fulfilling the mandate which has emerged from this Parliament, the agreements that have emerged from this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u240	So that's what we left on the table and we went back to the agreement that was approved here in the past. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u241	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea to Mrs. Santos Queiruga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u242	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President. I would also like to welcome the union representation here, which we have had meetings with and which has all our support. And we regret Mr. Rueda's absence, although then he'll have no choice but to come up with the question that will come out by our group to address this problem, because he's hidden like the ostrich not to face this problem. We, of course, also regret the closure of the People's Group and the lack of self-criticism on these issues. And we are very pleased to hear the honourable Member who has just expressed himself saying that there was such broad consensus on these issues and the unanimity that came out of all the groups while at the same time protesting that they were bored that the opposition had brought forth PNL and questions relating to this conflict with Justice. And asking for budget allocation for justice, a reinforcement for justice, and also for more budgets, in general, for the staff of justice and for everything related to justice in Galicia. The truth is, the People's Group and the People's Party, both in Galicia and in the state, are very bad luck. They're very lucky they have so many people protesting and demanding them to comply with their own laws, the laws of Montoro. And that in the restitution of stolen rights to public employees they are required to fulfil their responsibilities in relation to this legitimate negotiation also by the representation of the staff of Justice, since you rule with iron hand with your absolute majority. How bad are those who don't shut up with their absolute majority and demand rights! They're evil, you're right. They're evil! How bad are those who don't think most absolutes are an empty check and less those who don't accept the moral lessons of the absolute majority of a party charged with corruption! That's how popularly everyone knows him, and that they're also famous all over the world for being the first party charged with democracy by the judicial system. How bad those who don't think propaganda and manipulation, for example, TVG is an excuse not to talk about reality! And how bad are those who still feel sick about the news of corruption and when they see news like the Gürtel de Valencia -- today they talked a lot about Valencia, Paul Crespo, are you the only ones? -- are you Paul Crespo? Pablo Crespo was from the People's Party of Galicia. Also — things of justice — sentenced to more than 13 years in prison for the Gürtel case and that he was also one of the heads of this so corrupt plot, who was former secretary of the organization of the Galician PP, no less! Galician PP! And besides, new 19-01-2018: "Pablo Crespo ratifies the illegal funding of the Valencian PP," and also signaled Ricardo Costa and all the business friends of the PP. Things that happen and that Galician PP is alien to this, that he talks about Valencia as if he stayed away from it, stay super close! How bad is the health personnel who have been flooding on Sunday, along with a lot of citizenship, the streets of Santiago and who are opposed to attacks on public health! How bad were the sailors in the Greek sector who also turned against Mrs. Quintana's Aquaculture Law! How bad Ferroatlantic workers also protesting against Mr. Conde's actions regarding his performance with the segregation of Xallas power stations! And therefore how bad is the staff of Justice who has been protesting — with the closure of Mr Rueda's side of the vice-president of the defendant's party — because they understand that Mr Rueda knows little about dialogue and consensus and compromises. Because, of course, on a strike, at a rally on January 25, 95% of the workers in Justice, and perhaps the word consensus and dialogue that you sell should not be very true, as much as they say. Protests that are backed up because the differences and discrimination between workers between the different autonomous communities and the precariousness of the workers of Justice are absolutely intolerable. It is absolutely intolerable that there are such great differences between the workers of Justice in Galicia and other communities. Discounts for work incapacity, priviles? The political class and members of organizations who want to maintain the privileges of the regime, such as this bench! That is unacceptable. Is it privilexio to cover or not to cover the amortized and vacant squares? Because when they talk about amortizations, vacancies, retirements, those we've seen from the Public Service, we know how they twist this information, because there's a massive attack to dismantle the public, because you don't believe in this model. You don't believe in public justice, you don't believe in the public, you don't believe in public employees who are independent of political power. That's the key to the subject he's breaking up here. So, for us, the difference to you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u243	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u244	...to defend the public, public employees and their rights — and in this case Justice too — is absolutely an issue of ethics, it is a matter of justice — never said better — it is a moral issue. That's why we're going to be with the workers, we're going to be with the public. We will be against the privileges of politicians, who have done so much damage in this country, and against the decommissioning and precarious model of the People's Party, both in private and in the public. And, therefore, we will support this initiative of the Socialist Party of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u245	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u246	And let's also ask Mr. Rueda about these matters later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u247	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos. You have the floor, by the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u248	Thank you, President, again. And thanks to the Parliamentary Group of BNG and En Marea. We're going to accept the amendment of the BNG as a whole, as it adds to those points further. And we're not going to accept the amendment of the People's Party. And, Mr. Moreira, is that our November initiative I don't know if you know that there are new January 24 initiatives -- registered January 24 -- because the strike was January 25th. What happens is how this Parliament works, and given that the Speakers' Board was last week, these November 24 initiatives were not in a position to be debated today in plenary. Perhaps the regulation needs to be changed — you have an absolute majority of them can make a proposal — and we could have these initiatives totally up-to-date. The way we work in this Parliament, unfortunately, is at least fifteen days late, because we are doing so. And you have no intention of changing them. Of course, it would be good — it is true — for the unions to meet with the People's Parliamentary Group to explain to you what the reality is, because you don't know anything about what's going on in Justice. It would be very nice that... you really need a meeting with the representatives of the workers, because you came here to tell me this document, a closing document that the advisor—not directly, because there are about eight or nine years that he hasn't seen their face for Justice, except to inaugurate the few judicial buildings that are opening—and the general director went with this closing document. And it's too bad I don't have a slate to tell you the table that comes here -- that's what you just told us -- but that's also wrong, because it places Galicia as the ninth century in 19 autonomous communities. In Spain there are 17 because Ceuta and Melilla are not autonomous communities and therefore do not count, and Murcia, Balearics and Castile-Leon do not count, because justice is not transferred and therefore it is not the competence of autonomous communities, but it is the competence of the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, Galicia is on November 12, if you don't mind, and that means it's below average. Mr. General Manager of Justice promised the unions to be at number 6 or at number 7, that is, at the post of Andalusia and Asturias, and he didn't. That's too bad. You came here to tell this document, which has five points — it is true — which is what the strike committee has negotiated. It's entrepreneurial that in the transitional autonomic supplement you've changed your posture three times. The first time, at the Galego Labour Relations Council, saying that the increase would be in 2018; the second time, the Director General of the Public Service said it would be in 2019; and the third time, the same Director General of Public Service said it would be in three years. It would be nice if you guys agreed to each other, it's entrepreneurial! It is also entrepreneurship that for the consolidation of squares...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u249	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u250	...—I've finished, President—they sell us that it's 36 that were already negotiated in the General Bureau of the Civil Service. What we have to negotiate is where, how and when these 36 reinforcement squares are to be created. There will not be amortization of 106 squares, because the Minister of Justice only authorized you 10 of these 106 squares, 10, not even 10%, Mr. Moreira, and so you recognized it at the Galego Labour Relations Council. It would be nice if you could also review the records.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u251	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u252	—I shall finish, President. What is entrepreneurial, on the other hand, is that you include in that document something that at no time the strike committee included as a worker's claim, something that should be negotiated outside, something that is not mentioned, something that is as serious as increasing the personnel of the women's violent judges. It can't be that it's been almost nine years without knowing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u253	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u254	The vice president of the board wants to hang a medal at the expense of the victims...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u255	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u256	...of gender-based violence and the judges of gender-based violence. They vote in favour, and so easily.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u257	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u258	You vote in favour of our bill and probably...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u259	Thank you very much, Mrs Vilan, for your intervention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u260	...we can keep talking later. Thank you, President, for your kindness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u261	Thank you very much. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Council in relation to the management of AP-9 before the Government of Spain, the defence of the interests of users and compliance with parliamentary agreements
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u262	This motion for a non-law was tabled an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u263	Mr Bará Torres has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u264	Thank you, President. The People's Party is disturbed by the opposition's initiatives on AP-9, just saying Mr. Fernández Prado. They say we're here in a competition, in a party struggle. We would really love not to bring initiatives on AP-9 here, we would be delighted, and have it easy: they comply with the agreements of this Parliament and we will not bring any more initiatives on AP-9; they will make the AP-9 transfer to Galicia and we will not bring the subject here; but really, you are systematically failing all the agreements and, therefore, we will continue to fight this battle and we will continue to denounce those breaches and demand every time it takes, there is no problem or worry about it. [[Applause]] Well, this initiative that we bring is aimed at putting an end to that veto of the People's Party to the transfer of AP-9, and you give it the rounds you want, but yesterday it was perfectly clear to the Minister of Development: AP-9 does not transfer because it's from the state. That's so clear. So don't look for sub-refugees here, excuses, explanations, because of course there's a political veto, they're not technical reasons, it's a political decision not to transfer AP-9. And they also came to say what was a threat to Spain's unit the transfer of AP-9, because, of course, the State would remain without powers. Don't take us for fools, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, there's a political veto that, in addition, has an untrustworthy background for you, which is that what you're doing is protecting the interests of friendly companies, and more now when you're negotiating the sale of the concession, a millionaire business that is also cooking there in the dark offices. And all these decisions, which are political decisions, count on the complicity, the submission and the servitude of the People's Party and of the Galician Union, which are essential accomplices and collaborators of these decisions. You allow that outrage to Galicia, that contempt for the agreements of the Greek Parliament by not admitting the procedure to the law passed by this institution. The proposal that we bring here today's approval is therefore a request for compliance with the agreements of the Greek Parliament, in particular with regard to the transfer of AP-9. And it's not worth saying here, voting one thing here and the opposite in Madrid, because besides you -- you're laughing the rice -- what they did is the same day voting here in favor and in Madrid veto. On that day of shame — which we will always remind you — of December 13, 2016, they voted in favour here of the transfer and in Madrid, at the Bureau of Parliament, they checked their proceedings. That's what counts, isn't it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The one over there doesn't count, okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah... yeah, yeah. [[Murmurs.]] Secondly, the aim of the initiative is to end the treatment of state and board governments with the concessionaire, which is nothing new, on the other hand, because they have been doing this for at least twenty years, or more, throughout the concession period: by extending the concessional periods, privatizing them, raising the fees, granting them tax benefits and bonuses, such as that franchise privilege that enjoys 95% of the IBI bonus, which prevents the municipalities from entering every year 9 million euros, with the difficulties we saw before they had the municipalities in the field of finance, and you allow this. Of course, and Audasa and the corsaries that are owners have the bonuses, but those that don't have bonuses are the people who use them. That is the policy that you continue to favour the interests of the dealership. This initiative also aims to end this multimillionaire business of AP-9, this concession that last year, in 2016, had 136 million revenue and 46 million profits; which has entered the entire concession period more than 2,600 million euros and that in 2011 planned to enter up to 2048 more than 9,500 million euros, of which a third, about, would be beneficial. A real spore, a legalized theft, a modern act of piracy that comes here to rob us of Rande's treasure, the treasure of AP-9 with that corsary capital that is the majority owner of the concessionaire, the Itiner Group. And we, since this situation is happening, here are a proposal, for you to have good relations with these companies — even if you want to transfer them a proposal to change the corporate image of the Itinere Group. We thought this image could work very well as a new corporate image of the corsary capital that's stealing the money from the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] This would be a good flag of convenience, but well, this flag of convenience would also be of use to the Government of the State, because the Government of the State is the second major beneficiary of the AP-9 policy by the 1,586 million privatization and because, in the end, the benefits obtained by the State exceed EUR 2 billion by counting the privatisation, also by counting on the corporate tax, by the way, that they have lowered it, as they have not?, that they have lowered it, and also the IVE. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Where's this money going? As soon as Galicia does not come, this money must be for the rescue of the ruined Madrid motorways that will cost the state — as the European Union has already told it — more than EUR 4,000 million. Not counting the expropriations, which they see as soon as they leave. And above all, it turns out that the worse service, the less personal, the less conservation and maintenance expenditure, continues to be retained. It's the highway that has most claims, according to the Ministry of Development has beaten the record for the fifth consecutive year, which most complaints generate for retentions, for incidences in payment of cards and fees. And in this sense, the proposal we bring here for agreement is that an audit be made on the service provided by the concessionaire. By the way, something that the Ministry of Development announced in 2015 and that we don't know anything anymore. And what we want is, therefore, that they act and leave these pairs of tracking commissiones, which is a smoke curtain, a substitute that's useless, and we don't come here to count that half of the savings of 7 million. Well, Mr. Feijóo came to talk about 400 million. What a hard time lying to that scoundrel, when the Board of Auditors itself spoke of 186 million. But besides, there's no such savings, because we've explained it to him, on many occasions the calculation of compensation has been varied and the state will have to pay less than those 7 million it paid. So, there's no savings for the Galician Union, because the state is going to assume it, because it's going to pay less than 7 million that I've been paying for today. And what we are asking ourselves is because of this wrongful enrichment — by the way that this report of the Ministry of Development — which has been given over all these years that you have been paid that compensation when it wasn't fair to do so. Well, and finally, we consider that there are many dark areas, there is very little light in the management of AP-9, it is necessary to stop in that sense the feet of Audasa, to plant them in front of the corsaries and, therefore, to approve a commission of inquiry, which is not a commission of investigation simply about the agreements — as we sometimes understand — of 2011 and 2013, is a commission of inquiry about the entire period of the concession; a commission of inquiry about the decisions of the governments that benefited the concessionaire, the extension of the concession, privatization, the agreements, the increases of the fees, about the benefits generated by the concession, about, also, the revenues obtained by the State, in which those revenues were used. And also about the works of Rande Bridge, because there are still many issues that are not clear about this, and we want there to be transparency, that there is light, that there is maximum clarity about all these issues. So even though we know you don't like it, gentlemen of the People's Party, the BNG will not stop to denounce this outrage, this spolian and, also, the complicity of the Union, the complicity of the People's Party and the Central Government with the abuses of the concessionaire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u265	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u266	Good afternoon. Again talking about AP-9 from the rostrum this afternoon. Mr. Fernández Prado, you told us that different things were done in the government and in the opposition. I remind you: Alberto Núñez Feijóo, Government Fraga, extension of the concession of AP-9 to twenty-five years. That's in the government. In the opposition it is true that at that time he was not yet responsible for the Popular Group in the House, but we were my group and the BNG Group behind the action of the Government at that time presided over by Emilio Pérez Touriño and with Anxo Quintana in charge of this issue, we took to Madrid the Joint Transfers Commission — since I was with some fellow member of his at that time, like Mr Pita, who was previously spokesperson of the Government Fraga—; we carried a set of transfers, of request for transfers, among those included in AP-9. [[Applause]] So at that time, with the support of the Government, we were requesting the transfer of AP-9, Mr. Martín Prado, we were requesting the transfer of AP-9. Yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] On the contrary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u267	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u268	Excuse me? I don't understand what you're saying. Then you'll have a chance to explain. [[Murmurs.]] Second important issue. You told me: support the Minister of Development in the management he's going to make of the highways. No, look, what the Minister of Development is publicly proposing is that he wants to extend the grant of the motorways that end over the next three years; he just wants to extend the concession, and there we will not agree to extend the grant of these buses. For what? To save a small amount of money in maintenance matters, he wants people to keep paying for it. Well, that's not gonna be our model. And look, and to explain differences of behaviour to you: highway Lalín-Ourense, for free, do not pay citizens, era of Emilio Pérez Touriño as president. Highway Santiago-Lalín, even on the road, pay the citizens, was Mr. Fraga President of the Board. That's the difference, Mr. Martín Prado. Tell us that, just because there are such inconsistencies on the territory, fruit of different criteria. And I don't want to come in and judge here if they're better than others, as there is between the Coruña-Carball, the difference of Round-Vigo or Santiago-Sigüeiro or many others. That's why we thought we should sit down, knowing that in part they depend on another administration and in part on the Galician Union, and establish homogeneous criteria in the whole territory that allow citizens to be explained why we do things and not others; to agree with each other and say, because this is what is going to happen. When it comes to switches, we're going to apply that criterion; when it comes to another different situation, we're going to apply another one. And we try to have all the same rights and obligations in the whole territory. That is why we are talking about the Committee on Study, which also includes the analysis of AP-9, because, since there is a follow-up commission in which the Council of Galicia is present, we believe that it can be sensitive to what this Parliament decides, if at last that committee of study we propose leads to practice. We don't want an investigation commission like the one proposed by the BNG, and not because we have no fear of it being investigated, but for a reason of form and another underlying reason. The bottom line is we want to be consistent with what we've seen defending here. It's not a competition from this administration; therefore, we wouldn't have the instruments, the means and the ability to finally know what was going on. And one reason for this is that to a large extent all that BNG is asking for is transparent and available information that is in the company's memories, and therefore it can be accessed to it and can be reconstructed what happened with AP-9 over time. Furthermore, this plenary would not be competent to do so either, because this is not the procedure laid down in Parliament's Rules of Procedure. So there's a difference, and we're not going to support that part of the initiative without the rest. We believe that the Ministry of Development must be bothered, we must press it, we must press it, we must give it a coherent proposal on the basis of a reality that has already been exposed here by some of the speakers on this issue this afternoon; a double reality that doubles its account to the current situation, because we are paying, through the necessary fees, investments and, in addition, the corporate tax that enters the Ministry of Development more than compensates for the bonuses that it is giving to the users of AP-9. So we believe that if we have to give the can to get these fees down, to rationalize the situation in the whole territory, and so that AP-9 can provide a good service, because today is a problem, today it reduces the competitiveness of our products. A Ferrol company that wants to place products in Vigo is in worse condition than a Lion company, because it has to pay fees, and in the other case they don't pay. And because it also affects our well-being as citizens, making many people who have to use that infrastructure daily have to do an excessively high development, and it will have to continue doing it until 2048, when in other parts of the territory the fees will be lifted, if the Ministry of Development does not finally leave with its own, from the year next or the next year or, in any case, from the early 20s. That is why we are going to support, if possible, part of the BNG initiative and, of course, we do not agree on the other side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u269	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u270	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Our group will, of course, support this initiative so that the Galician Union will stand firmly in order to defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks in front of the Audasa and Fômento, but we have to say that we have no hope that it will be carried out. I'm not saying it can't be approved, because we know that the People's Party sometimes approves initiatives but then doesn't execute them. Of course we know that this is not going to be executed, and we know it for a simple reason: the People's Party has never made a decision, never carried out an act that was against Audasa's interests. And this initiative goes against Audasa's interests. That's why we're sure they won't approve. And this is no opinion, these are done, the story of how Audasa plunders Galicia with the necessary and esteemed collaboration of the Administration, essentially of the governments of the People's Party. Audasa's concession represents as nothing of this model of neoliberalism of amicables, of those who defend the neoliberal, but I'm not able to do business unless it's parasiticizing institutions. The facts and the results are what they are. The exploitation of AP-9 is a scam to citizenship, with the necessary collaboration of the Administration, as evidenced by the facts and results. First they privatize the price of a friend with the maximum socialization of losses and privatizations of profits; wins Audasa, loses citizenship. Then they shield the concession to the legal maximum, making the AP-9 the concession of the highway that ends later on its concession; winning Audasa loses citizenship. They apply an abusive tariff policy that increases with the last agreements of enlargement works; wins Audasa and loses citizenship. And you'll allow Audasa to be the dealership that gives the worst service so she can reduce expenses to a minimum and thus get more benefits. That's the reality of your decisions and actions with respect to AP-9. What are the results? What did the Greeks and the Greeks gain from the People's Party's decisions regarding the granting of AP-9? Having the worst service; five consecutive years being the granting of the austere road with the worst service; having the black spot with the greatest sinisterity of all state highways, in the province of Pontevedra; losing jobs. With the expulsion of the 150 workers who have carried out Audasa in recent years, we have one third of the average workers in the state of workers and workers in the highways. What else did the Greeks and the Greeks win with the People's Party's decisions with regard to AP-9? Pay abusive prices, to direct these overcosts to the pockets of shareholders and shareholders. What else did they win? Be discriminated against. Many Welsh and Welsh people can't use AP-9, above all, people who have to make these daily trips, at abusive prices, and have to use conventional roads that, along the parallel to AP-9, have a very high average vehicle index, have a high fallout and since they don't have the competitive times of the highway. That's all the Greeks won with their decisions. And what did Audasa win? A lot, a lot, a lot of money, and you just have to go to your profit balance: 1,9 billion gross profits until 2016. 50% of the billing is beneficial, compared to 7% of the average of the country's companies. One out of three euros is net profit for its shareholders; an average net profit in the last few years of 46 million euros, upward trend, aside from what would have to be added to financial business, which forms an important part, with the highest interest of all concessionaires. This is the reality of the AP-9 concession management. It's the data from the evil management for people and fantastic for friends, those that appear in the summaries for illegally financing the People's Party, like the case of Villar Mir. Today we could see the Inigo de la Serna inciting the maintenance of the veto. They put the Galician Union in a good deal because they say that all decisions, since the Commission exists, are made in coordination with the Galician Union. So now the Galician Union is also responsible for the release of Rande's toll to the back of the Greeks and the Greeks and not to the profits of the company to the state. Is this what you defended in the AP-9 Commission? What did they do before we got the worst service on all the highways? What are they doing in the Commission so we can stop having the bus with the worst service? Absolutely nothing, and now you're also responsible for it from the Government of Galicia. We don't know if we've also made the decision on that commission to do the inaugural simulation so we can raise the fees when the work is unfinished. This was also attended by the Galician Union. So with Audasa we have more years paying the highway; with the decisions of the People's Party we have the abusive prices that go from the Greeks and the Greeks to the shareholders' pockets; and with Audasa we have a brake for the social and political development of our country. Here's the main problem is that Audasa's interests, at every moment, always coincide with the political decisions they're making. They've always been favoring the dealership and harming citizenship. This is the target data. So, either you're good intentions and bad managers or, by the way, you're bad intentions and very good managers for yours. Whatever the reason, their decisions are against the general interest, because the data makes it very clear. And if you have data that says otherwise, if at some point you've made decisions against Audasa's interests to favor the Greeks and the Greeks, put them on the table. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u271	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u272	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon again. Mr. Bará, it's just that this new anagram design hadn't moved his voicer to them the other day, at the breakfast they invited her to, those of Itinere!, who had been there with them and could put it in the background. I mean, they could... so much... why go to breakfast with them, if they're so pirates? [[Applause]] And don't make things so easy for me, Mr. Bará. Just put the egg candy on me! We know you Caribbean pirates know a lot, and you've been there before. I'm not that guy, it's not my style, but don't make it so easy, we all remember the Caribbean trips. I'm sure you brought the flag from there. In any case, you can transfer it at the next lunch to your mayor or any of the people in your group who are going to Itinere to these breakfasts. Mr. Leiceaga—foise, but they can move you... oh, sorry!—if we already know that you, when you don't rule, ask for the transfer. We know that, that they were asking for transfer when they didn't rule. The problem is, when they rule here, not in Madrid, they vote not with the BNG. That's the problem, Mr. Leicega. But, in any case, that you speak to me and that you name me—it's someone else who puts me, like Mr Bará— Emilio Pérez Touriño... who opened the screen for the extensions of the AP-9 motorway in 1994, signing the first for ten years? The Secretary of State was Emilio Pérez Touriño. Don't make things so easy for me either! It's too bad. [[Applause]] Yes, yes, I haven't talked about the Knight yet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll talk to you now. I'm talking about Caballero now, don't worry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u273	Quiet. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u274	I'm talking now about Caballero, Mr. Abel Losada, don't worry, we also have. Look, finally, Mr. Leicega, at last. The pact...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u275	Quiet, Mr. Losada. Silence, Mr. Losada!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u276	I hope you let me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u277	No, no, yes, you'll have your time. Mr. Losada, be quiet. No, shut up. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If not, I have to call you in order, Mr. Losada. Quiet. Stay in the Diary of Sessions, and it's not a nice thing, I say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u278	Mr. Leicega, the model of the motorway state pact doesn't go that way. That line, with the only highway that ended, went with the bathtubs. And only for maintenance did the self-street tubs put a new toll more expensive than the Galician; only for maintenance, without paying works. That's why it doesn't go there; the Ministry's proposal doesn't go there, it's a global model for all of Spain. Mr. Cal, he says: the decisions of the People's Party. I'm going to tell you the latest against Audasa's interests, the last of many. The Bipartite, PSOE and BNG, bought a big deal in Cambre, Barcala and Rande, which was paid without a car limit. What did the PP do when he got to the government now? He said, no, we're going to limit the payment cars for that 7 million gift that doesn't exist — and we're paying 60, Mr. Bará, 60 already!, and it's 400 to the end, bad it weighs you. Well, the one who didn't exist, the one from the Bipartite, those seven were without limits of cars, he went up to... he put himself without limits of cars. And you know what Audasa did? He took the Government of Spain to the courts; we are in the courts. See if we make decisions against Audasa's interests, which has to take Rajoy's government to the courts. The PSOE doesn't take them, with the support of the BNG. [[Laughter]] In any case, I know that he wants to make us responsible for Rande's toll, but November 24, 2011 ruled the Socialist Party, and published in the BOE that signed by Mr. Blanco. So I think it's obvious. In any case, on the subject of the Commission, I fully share what the spokesman of the BNG said both at the bottom and in the form. It's a state competition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u279	The PSOE?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u280	Sorry, about the PSOE. It is a state competence, and neither in the form nor in the background knows - and knows the regulation perfectly - what it needs and how it is done to carry out an investigation commission; it is not a LNP system to deal with this issue. In any case, I've already told you that, of course, on that part we are not, the rest of the first three points and even the first part of the fourth point of its non-law proposal, we would be willing to support it if we allowed a point vote. I've already told you that with the same reasons that were said here, not on the subject of the Commission, and it's a state jurisdiction. We don't mind them presenting themes in defense of the Greeks against Audasa; no, sir, don't say things I don't say. What bothers us is that you want to deceive the Greeks by bringing things of state competence to this chamber, trying to mix and confuse the matter, to try to wear off the Government of Greece, who has no competition on this subject, and who is always the first defending the interests of the Greeks in front of Madrid, government or non-government, or government who governs. Because this is the big difference. And the shame, let me tell you, it's not the year 2016, the shame is the day that the BNG and the PSOE, ruling in Galicia, voted in this chamber — and it's in the Diary of Sessions — against the transfer of Galicia from that highway. The People's Party has always held a coherent stance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u281	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u282	All right, if you leave me a minute, but let me just remember one thing, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u283	Yes, thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u284	Thirty seconds, president. In 2011, which made this great agreement of Mr. Blanco, the BNG ruled in the Deputation of the Coruña, in the city of Coruña, in the city of Santiago, in the city of Vilagarcía, Mr. Bará shared government with the socialists in Pontevedra, shared governments in all the great cities of Vigo, Cangas, Moaña, Redondola, and the city itself. The pressure measures they did at that time when it was signed, where are they? Where is that BNG asking in all cities?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u285	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u286	He just had to tell the PSOE government, the PSOE government, we didn't expect anything anymore, but I just had to tell him: listen, we rule with you in all the cities that unite, in all of them. But no, no, you have to wait for him to rule...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u287	Thank you, your time is up, Mr. Fernández Prado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u288	Mr. Fernández Prado is also upset that Ana Pontón goes to the Galician Tribune and goes there to speak clearly, denounce this AP-9 policeman, because he went there to denounce clearly and tell the truth. You don't think it's wrong. You don't want me to go there either. He doesn't want me to go there either. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You didn't go, if you were there because you take note of the president. Look, I'm going to read you the official state bulletin agreement of 29 July 2017, so you can stop saying... 17, the one in 2011 too, I have it here, but I'm going to read the one in 2017 to stop telling lies at once: "The new amounts of compensation calculated" with the new system "are below authorized spending commitments (...), which allows and motivates the State's general administration to fully assume funding", because it's the least of the commitments that the State administration already had. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, the same state will save. Indeed, and the agreement was bad. Yeah, yeah, we agree it was bad. What did you do well to make this change? We agree. But don't say that Junta will save that money, because the state will assume it. And they're not, of course, 400 million; they're not lying, they're not lying because the Board of Auditors said it was 186 million. Look, here you're trying to convince us that after the BNG takes this battle against the AP-9 Spolie in the state parliament, in the Greek Parliament, finding the permanent veto of the People's Party, and not only the People's Party, which has really prevented the transfer of AP-9, which tries to come here to convince us that it was the BNG that opposed it, but what are you telling me? You think we're stupid, or what? We're not fools! [[Applause]] You're the ones who've been vetoing the AP-9 transfer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u289	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u290	And besides, you yourself go there when the openings of that enlargement are made. Because we oppose the agreement, oppose those works, oppose enlargement, manifest ourselves, stand against this inauguration, with that increase in the rates in difference. By the way, the mayors of the Morrazo were not, the mayor of the People's Party, nor was he, of course! It wasn't that show because it was also against this opening and that commitments to the Roundup Town Hall had not been fulfilled, and it wasn't. You know that well, Mr. Pazos. With regard to the Committee of Inquiry. Well, they come here and talk to us about things like this. If there were any problems in a way I suppose the Bureau of Parliament would not allow it to be dealt with and if this initiative was voted on as drafted, because here we are talking about respecting and following the regulatory channels. So that agreement then has to take who has to take it, but here we are making a political decision to promote a commission of inquiry. And I don't want that argument either that it's not up to the Galician Union, because of all the matters affecting Galician, it must be possible to do a commission of inquiry, and in this case more than in any case, because it affects us and well that affects us. So we are not going to accept those proposals, we are not going to accept the amendments, nor are we going to accept the vote separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u291	Oh, it was a shame. Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u292	The next non-law proposal is by En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and two other Members, on the measures to be taken by Junta de Galicia in relation to the mining surveys being carried out in the Town Councils of Touro and O Pino while ensuring the viability of the water resources supplying the area and obtaining the corresponding authorization of the Galicia Waters
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u293	There's a self-amendment from the Tide Group. [[(G. P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal, through his spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendments to this non-legislation proposal.Existing the safe withdrawal by Mina Cobre San Rafael S.L. from the rubble, "theoretically" inert, which are being abandoned in bags on public roads and roads where cataclysms and surveys have been made.4.- Decree the immediate suspension of these mining works, while the company has no authorization, of most landowners and of the Town Hall of Touro, to act on public roads.5.- Exist the Waters of Galicia and the General Directorate of Mines that do not grant permits for the conduct of mining surveys without the mandatory authorization of landowners and of the municipalities as regards public roads.6.- Support the motion unanimously approved in the Council of Touro, at the Full of December 29, 2017, where all surveys are sought for parallelization while a hydrological and geotechnical study shows that they do not affect aquirements, wells, sources and other water resources approved in the City Council of Touro, which are considered as part of the population, the jungle and the exploitation of the forest. Likewise to all associations and collectives legally constituted in the defence of nature and the environment, professional or business, of the areas affected by the mine.8.- Decree the exemption, private and non-profit societies and associations, of fees corresponding to applications for certificates on the status of ownership of mine rights, state of processing of research permits requested, or granted, and status of mining investigations already carried out."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u294	Mr. Casal has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we bring this issue back to the full after we take it to the commission, because every day that's passed new situations, and that's why we had after a month of registering the non-law proposal that we self-amended, because the situation is more complex every day. The councillor said in the past you're doing mining politics, you're opposed to mining for political reasons. Yes, he said, "political and ideological." In your opinion, it seems that the People's Party has no political motivation, because its politics is Galicia and it is the good of the Greeks. Actually, it's political. Policies for the defence of the territory and of the future of the country and of all the Greeks; policies for compliance with the laws and mining activities are compatible with the conservation of the environment and the socio-economic development of the territory. In mining and mining policy, we must assess with great precision and certainty the negative externalities that will occur in order to see that positive contributions to the territory, employment and the economy of the affected areas are offset. Since it is clear that if negative externalities and risks to the environment are inescapable, regardless of the possible positive effects, these holdings must be rejected by plan. And that's doing partisan politics in your opinion. For us it is to defend the country and its possibility of the future. And in the case of the Touro mine and O Pino, the potential risks that will indefinitely hang like a Damocles sword over the municipalities affected, the Ulla basin and the Arousa stream are inscrutable, so exploitation is inadmissible. In the face of this situation, politics must indeed be made, politics to change the negative consequences of the policies being made by the People's Party. First of all, in the last Commission 6th, Mr Tahoces, the truth is that he got a little nervous and accused of being against the free implementation. He said it textually and you can see it in the video. He's really out of his mind. And yes, we're against the free bar, foreign companies that take the profits and leave few jobs. If you don't believe it, see the business multi-location statistics. 82% of extractive industry yields in Galicia go outside Galicia, and in Galicia there's only 50% of the job left. Thirty points of difference. And already moving to the specific point of the non-law proposal, we see that in relation to the surveys and mining surveys that are being carried out by the company Sociedade Cobre San Rafael in the Town Councils of Touro-O Pino, we find the following: First, the absence of an ideological and geotechnical study, which clearly allows to determine the sources, channels, watercourses, etc., which could be affected, and which could affect the supply of water, communities, and the supply of livestock and agriculture. The absence of permission from Galician waters. The councilman said in the previous plenary that this authorization was not necessary, and the truth is, we were quite surprised. The truth is, it doesn't seem very credible that aquifers are perforated with surveys that, by evaluating all the bags, then leave a hole of 12 or 13 centimeters in diameter, because by calculating the volume of these bags, we calculate that the drilling depths are more than 100 meters. [[Mr. Casal Vidal shows the Chamber two coloured photo folio.]] How is it possible that in 100 metres of drilling they don't cross aquifers? In Galicia that's totally impossible. He also said the Counselor that we have no idea, that we are ignorant, that we speak of hearings. Well, these days, we were given an in-depth analysis of Galician mining management law and its application in these surveys. The truth is the whole bottom line that allows this law, which really cannot be said, by making a comparative study, which is a very comprehensive law. I know it's a Bipartite law, I know it. But the law collected the need to develop it within a period of one to two years. We have been waiting for nine years, so far, to make a development — which I will then comment on in the second intervention — absolutely reckless, as was done in the Galician Predation Act. And we're going to analyze the law; if they want to, they're going to see if they're doing it or not. Article 17 lays down the procedure for applying for permits. We'll monitor if all these conditions have been met. But we see directly that in paragraph 1(d) of it it is determined that an environmental assessment is necessary for this type of prospecting. Did you present this assessment? In the municipalities affected no one has information of the same, after consulting the Touro Town Hall and the Pino Town Hall. Article 17(1)(f) speaks of the need for a space restoration plan affected by prospecting activities. Did you introduce yourself? Well, we don't know, but what's obvious is that it's not done. The bags all broken along the banks of the Touro and Pino roads. Article 21, "Public Information": Once all documentation of the inspection processes has been completed, a public exhibition must be made. Well, no one in the area noticed that if this information was made public, the municipalities didn't know anything. Then also "Preceptive Municipal Report" in Article 22: "The municipality which has placed the right to a mine in its municipal term shall issue a report on matters of municipal competence. The report shall be issued within two months." Well, as we mentioned earlier, the Town Hall not only granted this permission, but it didn't even know that these surveys were being carried out on the public lands of the Town Hall, on public roads, and on private lands. In the above-mentioned plenary session of December 29th, which had just come out of the Minutes, a motion was adopted which rejected the possibility of making the inspections, and the mayor stated textually "that he didn't know anything about what was being done—the mayor of the People's Party—these projections.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Article 23, "Preceptive self-reports". There must be reports of Heritage, Environment, Agricultural Planning... well, seven or eight institutions. These reports should be public, and they don't appear anywhere. Did you make these reports? Did you count on those reports with the opinion of landowners in the area? No, no, no, no. That's what we can say with total clarity. We don't talk about hearing, we talk directly for these two weeks with a lot of local owners. Article 24, "Compatibility of mine rights and with uses of public interest", and in particular that indicated in paragraph 2(b) of Article 24, its impact on the natural and social environment, landscape and rural environment." Has this report been completed? No one knows anything about this report there. Hearing process: once all reports are issued, they will be made public. In the municipalities they don't know anything, it's not published anywhere. In addition, we imagine that the landowners where the surveys are forecast should be interested. We can already say that this hearing procedure has not been carried out, it has not been communicated to them, private land has been invaded without people having even been notified. Then there are already flagrant technical issues. Article 28(1)(b) "In the case of research and inspection permits, the mining authority shall not grant extensions exceeding fifteen mining grids". Each mining grid has 25 hectares and by 15 would be 375 hectares. In the company's own project he says he's doing explorations on 750 hectares, that is, twice what the law allows. And Article 2(c) of the same Article: "The obligation to manage waste extractive activities and their transport". It's obvious that neither transport nor management is done with them. After all this, Title IV, Chapter III and Chapter V makes it clear that if any of these conditions are not met, this implies a temporary suspension of the authorization for the exercise of the activity until the compliance with all of the legislation is certified. So we've introduced this non-law proposal with a self-amendment, with many added themes, where we've asked for the careful suspension of the polls until all the conditions I've already commented on are met: Demand the proper signaling of mining. I've been there and they're getting in the middle of roads without any kind of signage. Require safe removal of the extracted arids, which are not known to be compounded. To demand the Galician Waters to make a statement of whether it is true that in 100 meters deep of exploitation there is no aquifer. It's a little weird in Galicia. To support the motion adopted unanimously, including the People's Party, in the Touro Council, in the middle of the 29th day, to immediately paralyze the prospections. And the mayor said, "if you're doing it," that he didn't know. Well, it looks like more than a hundred and twenty holes are already in the area. And then, of course, give express consideration to the neighbors of the area, to the owners. Because the Industry Council and the Directorate General of Mines, after the allegations they made, are sending them communications to believe they are interested or not. You don't know how to be that kind of accreditation. And finally, they're told that not only are they to believe as interested, but they're going to have to pay some fees, which they don't specify, in order to access the information. That's why we also ask in this non-legislation to exempt private individuals, societies and non-profit associations from the fees that are being demanded from them, which could in any way prevent them from having access to the entire documentation of the file. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u296	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Mr. Casal, you've got the tablet here, you've got the device here. [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Sure, a problem. Maybe there's more information.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u297	Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u298	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. The BNG has always been holding a position contrary to the extractive activities of the resources we have in this country. The reason must be very clear, because the right granted to the people of the Greeks to inhabit this territory from before time, because they are modeled and modeled, possessors and possessors of this fragment of the world, gives us the right of collective possession beyond the formal property which is registered in a notary, and which can be bought or sold. It gives us the right to collectively enjoy the wealth we share. And we don't resign ourselves to being mere spectators, and we don't want them to carry us the valuable and leave us with a silly face with pollution in present and future threats, no! This way of exploiting generalized resources in the 19th century, and which today is active in the countries of the Third World, cannot be allowed. From Katanga comes the director; yes, sir, from Katanga!, and it is undeniable, from Katanga! We have already talked about the amount of pollution that would occur during extraction, from which we would remain forever; from the threat of toxic mineral rafts; from the non-existent guarantee of restoration; from the non-covering of an environmental accident by companies with little formal capital; from the possibility that market fluctuations would cause in a month, a year or three, a day, activity to be unappetizing and to be stopped abruptly, and — as it was said when I was little — to "search the rod". We are suspicious of the good words, of the four hundred jobs when in the project only fifty parking spaces are contemplated. And they irritate us if you want to take us for fools, you know? The aspect we're dealing with here today has to do with that prepotence, with that pouty that leads to doing things by forgiving others' lives. Yes, because when we talk about prospecting or calicata without asking permission and without the preceptive hydrological studies, we allude to the impunity with which certain companies move on private property and the omission of legal precepts. Similar to this attitude of the People's Party with regard to the delicious prepotency it uses with this Member, by repeatedly denying him access to the documentation to which Article 9 is entitled, and without which he cannot develop his parliamentary activity as a representative of the Greek people. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, from 22 November 2016 until 11 January 2018 is almost fourteen months; the deadline marking the Statute of the Member is thirty days. I accused from this rostrum the People's Party, and in particular the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry, with its advisor at the front, of torpedoing the work of this Member by repeatedly denying me more than half a dozen files and reports on mining. That's right! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] On the other hand, to tell you that the dominant attitudes of companies have much to do with the certainty that people do not report criminal abuse because they feel inferior about resources and fear reprisals. Retaliations that we're used to in these situations, which have more to do with pre-democratic realities than with supposed mature ones that come only in the newspapers as propaganda and the absences of reality of them. The other day in Commission 6th Mr. Moses Paradello had us trying illegality by going against the law made by the Bipartite. That law is no longer such because of the changes and changes that year after year will be made to you by means of the so-called "accompaniment laws" — they are like factories that are taking off a stick's razor. They left it unrecognizable, not worth it to you or those who support you in power, the owners to whom they serve, and vainly suiting them as they are told. It's really sad that they only know how to defend the interests of four against the interests of three million. We will therefore support this initiative, which was already on its day presented by the BNG in the Touro Council, and approved unanimously, the People's Party included. And we hope, therefore, that PP would keep the same opinion here as expressed in Touro, or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u299	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u300	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, I was going to start talking about that law of the year 2008; a law enacted, passed in this parliament and introduced by a Government presided over by Mr. Touriño. A moment ago they told me from the People's Party stands that they were defending him vehemently. The truth is, I'm very proud of who presided over the Government between 2005 and 2009. And I was also going to talk chronologically about 1973 and 1977, because it was the years when there were two state laws -- one of mining and one of mining promotion -- that were vigilant. And there was also a president of the board before Mr. Touriño who at that time was carrying out other work; I think that less worthy of pride — hence, for me very little, but each one is proud of what he considers. And indeed, the law of 2008 was a risky law, because it was the first autonomous law of mining in the face of a clearly old legislation — I repeat again: in 1973, in full dictatorship, and in 1977, before the Constitution. And, undoubtedly, this law had two objectives — and I know because I was rapporteur of it, I mean that something I knew about it — was to avoid depredation, and the other question was that mining activities were able to correct the environmental effects of farms. And that was the political objective of the law of 2008. Socialists, of course, are not against mining as a productive economic sector, we are not. We believe that you have to have the greatest environmental guarantees and that you have to essentially guarantee that citizens' rights are the central element of these economic holdings. Unfortunately, in the case of the Touro mine it was not, in 1986 it ended the exploitation of Peñarroya-Riotinto, who has been working there since 1972, that is, fourteen years. And then we have, of course, that whoever goes there sees the environmental impact of that mine that no one has fixed, modified, etc. Anyone can see the excavations themselves, anyone can see the colour of the water of the streams that cross the nucleus where the Town Hall of Touro is located; at last those small "details" — you might say. By the way, from 1989 to 2005 — I repeated again: the mine actually ended in 1986 — the People's Party was ruling. In 1989 he once again ruled the People's Party, it is true that there was a two-year-old government presided over by Mr. González Laxe. But I think it's appropriate to chronically remember who had the responsibilities mostly in this autonomous community. For the one who in 1973 and 1977 was elsewhere, wasn't running in front of the grays, was saying, "The street is mine." That's why I claim Mr. Touriño, you know? That's why! Proudly, in addition. [[Applause]] Recognizing the democratic legitimacy of all the presidents of Galicia, but not all are equal, not all have the same political trajectory, not all are the same. [[Applause]] Yes, yes, it's true, they're not the same; of course, they're not the same for me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And by the way, I think -- and I don't know if I'm solemn or not -- that for most citizens neither. And I'm not going to quote Fidel Castro as "history will acquit me," but I don't think it's the same story either. Well, we actually tabled an amendment when this issue came to this plenary. A amendment in which we said that this project was not a viable project; that is, we're not saying mining not generally in Galicia, we're saying that this project was not a viable project. And, of course, the geological cataclysms that are being made we consider that they are paying attention to all environmental property rights. You, by the way, are so advocates of private property, only sometimes! so I see. And therefore we will support this initiative. I would also bring the photos that Mr. Casal has already taught. And, of course, we saw holes in the middle of the forest tracks. I don't know very well who it's up to, whether it's the Middle Rural Council or the Tower Council itself; but, of course, there are cataclysm holes in the middle of rural clues next to the old exploitations of the Touro mine. And, therefore, we undoubtedly ask that the law be scrupulously respected. And I want to finish — and I also take advantage of the fact that there is already the Economic, Employment and Industry Advisor — with the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020. I would also quote the year 2010-2014, but they told me it was very nostalgic to talk about the year 2010. The truth is, I'm surprised because if I'm very nostalgic about the year 2010, and the People's Party is talking from 2005 to 2009 three laws, every day, every hour! But nostalgia can be seen as it's on the left. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u301	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u302	In any case, one of the main lines of action of this Galician Strategic Plan followed on foot by the Greek Government is to recover the areas affected by abandoned mining, recovery and safekeeping of mining. Anyone who goes to the Town Hall of Touro sees that 100 percent is being accomplished.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u303	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u304	Good afternoon, gentlemen. I want to start by showing our respect for all the former presidents, because it is a great honor, and above all for Mr. Touriño. I don't know who went in front of him, but what I do know is that you've run a lot because at twenty-four hours you stopped being president you've already sat in the pole and sent him to a flat soldier's office. So that's the respect you've had for him. [[Applause]] Mr. Casal, now entering the initiative. We found ourselves in the face of a new strategy. Now it looks like they're not asking for a license to operate the project anymore. So it's a positive step forward. Or am I wrong, Mr. Casal? But they want it now, they want to make time, they're going to stop the project until they're ready. I don't know how many reports and licenses you say they're necessary. And that's why they want the government to violate the law and do what you want. I ask you, what joke is this, Mr. Casal? Because you're saying now that I don't know how many reports to have. And since the project began in Galicia, precisely, it has been directed to fifteen bodies and different institutions, among which the associations of affected were found, and you didn't want it to be complied with by the law, that this procedure had been done. Please note: do you ask for reports, yes or no?, do we continue with the procedure, yes or no?, or only reports that you think may interest you? The Galician Union is scrupulously complying with the Galician Mining Management Act adopted in 2008 by the two-party Government and is collecting precisely the necessary reports. I, Mr. Losada, what I wonder is that if now the problem is that the Government of the People's Party does not correctly interpret the 2008 Mining Act. Because if you want to be serious about mining, we say, welcome, welcome! Because we've been doing it for years, and we've almost been the only ones. Because you don't remember much about the mining sector, and when they do — yes — it's to depress it, to vote against all the projects, thus disregarding a very important sector for Galicia's economy and employment, with more than 5,000 direct jobs and so many indirect jobs, and representing 1.05% of the German GDP. You don't care about information, you already have your conclusions, you give them exactly what you're told, you've condemned this project and other futures without even allowing a fair trial. As the adviser told them — which today we thank you for being present in this debate — the company is entitled to allow it to carry out geological research through surveys of other techniques. By the way, if anyone enters a particular land without permission, this is very simple: the owner has to report, and until now there is no complaint about it. You're talking about a lack of security. Let's clear it up a little bit. In a survey, no special protection measures are needed, nor are there any measures to mitigate breakthroughs, because we're talking about a hole a self-propelled machine carries out on the floor with a depth of between 50 and 100 meters. In fact, no accident has been recorded. I'm telling you more: polls have been conducted for the last thirty years and there is no official record of aquifers' condition. You know why? Because water is not used, and if it is used it is an industrial water that supplies tanks, always in closed circuit. In addition, they use authorized products for these works. That's why they don't exactly require permission from Galician Waters. In fact, the mine inspection team hasn't recorded any of the dangers you claim. If it had been, no one doubted it, the Board would have acted as the responsible administration. You also say, alarmingly, that there was an environmental disaster in the buried waters and that this project would surely increase it. You know that the buried waters of the Touro mine area lack pollution. But he doesn't say so to the Galician Board, he gave the Environmental Technology Laboratory at the University of Santiago de Compostela, with Professor Felipe Macía, who is an environmental authority, who has been studying these waters for more than 13 years and has carried out more than 500 piezometers. You should also know that in 2002 a collaboration agreement was signed between the Environment, Galician Waters and the University of Santiago for the development of a technical project for the recovery of the Brandelas, Pucherios and Lañas rivers, around the Touro mine, and that quality monitoring of the waters is carried out with a frequency of quarterly sampling. A project that counted on the environmental impact assessment. So this initiative that you bring today doesn't look for information, nor does it show any kind of concern to find solutions, no. All you want is to mount jealousy, confrontation, division, and see if they get any political receipts -- look: legitimate, of course -- but the basis of being irresponsible, playing with people's illusions and hopes, with lies and half-truths that can give them the appearance of truth. In fact, they say BNG and En Marea are against since 2009, because they want to ban mining. But — I insist again — I wonder: Mr Rivas and the gentlemen on the left, did they tell their comrades of demonstrations, banners, protests that the two-party Government, that is, the left of Galicia, granted more than 100 research permits and forty-three operating concessions? Or do you want to convince us, do you want us to believe that all the projects that were granted at the time of the Bipartite were environmentally respectful, whereas when the PP governs they are predatory projects and they pursue the evil of humanity? You don't understand, of course, that obsessive persecution they have with the mining sector. That's why I want to tell the citizens of Touro and O Pino, as we have already told them and we insist again, that they have to be calm, because Galicia has a serious government, Mr Rivas, and responsible. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And they know that this project will only be authorized if it complies with all the urban, environmental and technical guarantees currently required, which are the property of a State committed to the environment and sustainable development. The People's Group is neither in favour of this project nor anyone else, we trust — that you do not — the public workers, their independence and professionalism when they issue their reports. Of course, we are going to reject this initiative because — I insist — it is only a deception and a slurry to entangle everything, which continues its process in accordance with the law. And, Mr. Casal, by the end of the day, you spoke of the Law of Valencia's Predation. I'm telling you it's not an application on this file. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u305	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Casal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u306	Mr. Blanco Paradelo, I see you don't like us asking for information. We're just asking for information to set up a mess, it's obvious! That's why we don't have enough information. We'll be here in November, see if we've got it before, because as we only want to be messed up! But the reality is that in Marea we coincided with Mr. Losada, and it's not against mining for ideological reasons. I don't know any ideology that goes from mining, that is, I don't know any ideology that goes against mining. What we are against is the mining that destroys and leaves only negative externalities in the present and possible future disasters. For example, it would seem very good to us that the exploitation of the quartz mines that Mr. Villar Mir has in Galicia, four mines, if the demands for these farms were to force the production cycle, for example, the solar silicon wafers, which occur from that quartz after a first transformation, to take place in Galicia. But they're not going to happen in Galicia, they're going to be produced in Puertollano, because his son-in-law has a factory there and he wants to take it out... and he's going to develop 500 jobs that should be in Galicia. And he'll close the soap factory after the Galician mines, the public goods of Galicia are bringing him very little money, as he says. But when you value the mine, you value it in over nine hundred million euros. Those things are also a bit rare, like a mine that tells them to bill 5 million euros a year and earn 500,000 -- nothing, it doesn't take anything from Galicia -- then it's worth a billion. We talked about it the other day. That is, to see who values a company twice the EBITDA, where you see that in the... those who understand the economy that explains it to me. How can one company be rated twice as EBITDA? So, obviously, Mr. Villar Mir doesn't get anything out of these mines and that's why he's totally justified in taking the jobs to Portallano. But you say, if you enter the property of the landowners, the farmers in the area, who go to the Prosecutor's Office. Sure, so what are we for? I mean, what you're asking the farmer to look after is his cows and his house is that he hires a lawyer, he comes to Santiago, he denounces... well, that's politics, to tell the citizen that if he comes up with it on his own, if he doesn't have anyone to defend him here in Parliament. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that's why, precisely for that reason, in the Galician Predation Act, you're right, in the Predation Law... precisely thinking about what to ask for authorization, because the property laws so indicate, there are no terms like the "implicit public utility", the "possibility of declaration of public utility." They're a little curious legal terms. Well, if the implicit possibility of public utility or the possibility of declaration of public utility is given, it will be allowed to enter land without authorization. That's politics. And seventy more things you've developed in that law, which all you do is remove rights and remove prevention from what can happen, reduction... for example, another very strong thing is that they reduce their deadline so they can argue against those applications from two months to a month. It used to be two months, but if it was out of two months, as long as the exploitation was not started, the reports were valid. Now it's reduced to one month, and if they're presented after that month, they're no longer taken into account at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u307	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u308	That's what the new law says, and it reverses, because it's seen that they haven't read it and they don't understand why we say it's a true Galician Predation Law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u309	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u310	...of depredation, of removing rights to citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u311	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u312	So they vote in favour and listen to the leaders of the Touro People's Party, who have already approved it on December 29th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u313	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u314	As has already been said, we are making changes on the agenda, and we are now going to raise three questions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u315	We're going to put up three questions now. We begin with Mr Pazos Couñago's question of the People's Parliamentary Group. Question by Mr Miguel Ángeldo Filgueira and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia regarding the institutional journey to Israel that will begin the President of Galicia on January 30, 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u316	Mr. Paz Couñago has the floor. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u317	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, welcome. Last week the Council of the Government of Galicia approved the Greek external action strategy, which had previously been discussed, agreed and approved in the Galician Parliament. Egaex is the road map of Galicia's external action for the next few years, and therefore it was necessary to set by consensus Galicia's objectives in that area, overcoming government proposals to enter into the eid of country strategic positions, providing long-term coherence for the international activity of successive Greek governments. Egaex sets out the priorities of our external action both as regards the geographic areas in which the international activity of the Galician Union must be carried out and as regards the sectoral objectives that are intended to be achieved with that activity. With regard to this last paragraph, a central objective of our external action is directly linked to one of Galicia's main economic development axes: investment capture, diversification of foreign markets, boosting synergies and thus a long et cetera that constitutes the process of internationalizing our economy. As far as geographic issues are concerned, in addition to improving relationships with our main and usual interlocutors: Portugal and the Lusophony, the European Union or Latin America set, other targets are also highlighted in less-explored latitudes. In particular, in analysing Galicia's potential possibilities in the Middle East, Egaex specifically refers to the approach to Israel, a small country that has shown that great results can be achieved through specialization, excellence and efficiency in R & D+i. And as the movement is shown to be moving, the Council that approved Egaex presided over him by Vice President Rueda because the president of the Union was visiting Israel leading a delegation from Greece, of which you were part and which included an important representation of Greek entrepreneurs. Both during the Egaex debate and during the semi-annual appearance of the Director-General for Foreign Relations and with the European Union to comply with the transparency obligation to report on travel outside the members of the Government of Greece, the opposition parliamentary groups were insistently demanding the need for the Government to provide more information on travel outside President Núñez Feijóo, since they believe that they are of "such importance to Galicia". As this permanent complaint is not implemented in parliamentary initiatives, once again it must be the People's Group that requires information on the contents of the journey to Israel so that the Government can inform this parliament and, in passing, the whole of the Greeks. And that's why we record this question that we now ask them: What evaluation does the Government of Galicia carry out on the journey to Israel of the President of the Galician Union?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u318	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u319	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Pazos, first of all, logically, thanks to the opportunity given by the People's Parliamentary Group to the Government to explain to this House both the reasons and the results of this trade table that we have just held in Israel. As you know, within the development of industrial policy, innovation policy, the Union works precisely to focus on internationalization on access to different markets in our productive fabric, to gain competitiveness and, therefore, to create jobs, and that our economy can maintain the growth rates it currently has. We're beating export record. This year 2017 we will close the export data with a record. So he understands the Government that has to continue to support the development of internationalization. The journey to Israel is set in this context, in a context of consolidating the trend towards export heights in Galicia, of also providing business fabric, of resources to be more competitive. We're doing this with Industry 4.0, and we're going to do it through the plan that we had this morning to present to this chamber, the Galicia Innovation 2020 plan, which will allow precisely to strengthen the bet on talent and the transfer of knowledge. Given this context, I understood the Government that Israel was and is an opportunity to approach one of the world's poles of technological enterprise; therefore one of the leading countries in technological matters. We're talking about a country where the technology industry represents 45% of the gross domestic product, where one of the twelve start-ups in the world are settled, and which is a country referring to investment and venture capital and the financing of the various innovation initiatives. Among these objectives was to establish possible synergies and possible ways of contact in sectors of relevance to Galicia and Israel, such as automotive, aeronautics, biotechnology, ICT, and the agri-food sector. A bet decided by R+D+i, through the Galicia Innova plan. So to emphasize the work that our companies, our technology centers and universities are doing in the wake of innovation. And finally, also an investment capture policy through the Business Implementation Act, a law that means more administrative simplification, more tax facilities, more access to business soil. Finally, as I said to you, we went down to Israel accompanied by twenty companies, clusters, technological centres to identify these new opportunities for our business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u320	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u321	Mr Counsellor, we fully agree with the importance of the possibilities that would arise from possible collaboration with Israel, especially in the field of technological enterprise and the attempt to establish synergies in other areas as important to Galicia as automotive, aeronautics, biotechnology, the information and communication technologies sector, or the agri-food sector, undoubtedly keys to Galicia. I think your answer reflects the importance of the goals of this journey and the importance of the agenda developed in those days as well. I suppose that way we'll have managed to get the Government to solve some of the doubts that arose between opposition groups in relation to the objectives of the delegation of Greece in its displacement to Israel. Nebargants tell us that the curiosity of the opposition extends to other aspects related to the expedition. The opposition members share with the People's Parliamentary Group their interest in knowing whether or not the objectives described by you have been met. And in case of affirmative answer, what was the degree of satisfaction achieved by the Government after the trip? Perhaps so, after this public service public service exhibition of the People's and Government's Group, we can get the opposition to stop complaining about the limited information about these trips and decide to opt for one of the two most reasonable alternatives: or to ask some questions related to the subject, on which they claim to have so much interest, or to make some proposal to modify the dynamics of travel-related appearances abroad, as they have been saying for a few years, even without doing anything about it. As we arrive at that moment, this group will be delighted to give the Government the opportunity to give account of the results of its external action, thanking you for the data provided and thanking you even more that the Government continues to persevere in the search for more opportunities for expansion for the Greek economy. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u322	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Pazos, indeed, the Galician Union has an alliance with companies to facilitate its internationalization. It seems to us that the administration has a responsibility to prioritize the needs of our productive tissue and, therefore, to open up opportunities in international markets, and also logically also the ability that the administration has in some cases to accelerate that strategy of internationalization through institutional contacts. So that's the goal of establishing that alliance between administration and companies in the field of internationalization, and we understand that it opens opportunities and also allows that acceleration in its strategy. And in this case, Israel, an eminently technological country, where the exports and participation of Galician companies in foreign trade are increasing. And I understood the Government that deserved a commercial mission, a mission with a clearly commercial content, to precisely open those new opportunities. The meetings held by the Government and the trade mission in Israel were different. There was a meeting with world-class technology companies, such as Mobile Like, who are working in collaboration with Cetag to establish this area of collaboration. We made a visit to the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, precisely to take advantage of us to approach the way in which Israel drives talent through the transfer of knowledge. We have held a Galicia-Israel business meeting precisely to show the capabilities that Galicia has, not only through its Galicia-Innova 2020 plan, but also through the facilities that the Enterprise Implementation Act allows investors to develop projects in Galicia. And we also had the opportunity to be present at the OurCrowd event, which is the largest international crowdfunding and venture capital forum. So, an opportunity for our companies, our technology centres, to establish new contacts, to know new technologies, ultimately, to establish new alliances. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia wants to be present in the new economy. That means making a clear bet for start-ups, for opening bridges of collaboration at the international level, and therefore that after this trip we can continue to deepen in collaboration with the productive fabric, with universities and technology centres; establishing and pushing these bridges of contact, so that we can become an open economy, an economy where our projects and our investments are open to collaboration, in this case, with a country eminently technological and where the bet on talent, ideas and startups. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u324	Quiet. Quiet, Mrs. Barahona. Silence! Sorry, Mrs. Barahona, you weren't in the use of the word. Silence! [[Mrs. Barahona Martín speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. Yeah, but we'll have a chance to talk about it another time. Quiet. Shut up, Mrs Barahona!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u325	Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Question by D. Luis Villares Naveira, by G. P. de En Marea, on the reasons of the Government of Greece not to accept the demands of the officials of the Administration of Justice assumed unanimously by the Parliament of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u326	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Mr. Vice President, what have you done all this afternoon until you get here to not talk to the workers and workers of Justice, to avoid the indefinite strike that will start tomorrow? Or if you want me to ask you the other way: what reasons does the Government have for not accepting the demands of the workers and workers of Justice, assumed unanimously by this chamber? The whole society owes itself to the collective of Justice, which has so much sheltered us during these years at the level of the economic and social crisis and in the face of the spoils of the public archives by the corruption of the People's Party. Perhaps that is why the Galician Parliament adopted the decision in December to accept the following contents unanimously: First, to achieve an equalization of salaries and staff complements with their counterparts in the autonomous communities; wage equalization which, at least, reaches that average of the state. So much to ask is it? Well, it seems like it must be a lot because in the negotiations yourself you raise the range of autonomous community to Ceuta and Melilla to fake the ranking of who is everyone on that Spanish average. And because after weeks of trying to negotiate, you offer exactly zero euros for 2018. Zero euro, although already in 2017, in December, we warned on occasion of the budgets that we should introduce amendments to accept those claims by 2018. Do you think the workers and the workers of Justice are fools? I'm not. Because they're not, and they're also from Justice, and some of them and some of them from criminal justice, you know how they spend them on the People's Party by cheating. The second point was to reach an agreement here not to discriminate wage persons who are subject to the situation of temporary disability. When you get sick, you lower your mortgage on your monthly quota, don't you? When you go to the supermarket, when you're down, food is cheaper? So then, why does Junta, why does the administration make the officials and officials of Justice who are in IT situation not have the same salary rights as the rest of the employee? Is there a reason? Your children, the people in charge, eat less during that month? No, right? So why are they discriminated against? You don't want to do it, you don't want to, you don't know, you miss your skills? Other autonomous communities have already done so, with different signs and different areas of competence: Euskadi in 2014, Andalusia in 2016, Aragon and Catalonia in 2017, Cantabria in 2018. Please select the template you want, and do this next. Third, replay the amortized squares since 2012. There can be no good functioning of the Administration of Justice without workers and workers of Justice. Don't you want justice to work well? And fourthly -- fourthly, unanimous agreement from this chamber -- consolidate those reinforcement squares that have been in the last three years. Do they not show such reinforcements a situation of structural necessity and not merely a conjunctural need? These measures, Mr. Vice-President, do not affect workers, do not benefit them, do not benefit the whole society, the whole public service, a functioning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u327	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u328	...of the administration of justice in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u329	Time's up. Thank you. No, your time is up, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u330	Why do you refuse to do the will of this chamber, Mr. Vice-President?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u331	Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u332	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, the first thing I have to say to you is that by failing to respect me or by failing to respect the People's Party, you won't solve any problems either with the administration of justice or with your workers or anyone else. That's what I'm telling you because, as is your strategy in this and everything, it doesn't take you to too many places. Look, I'm going to take your question literally because I think it's pretty indicative. The first thing you say in the question is that the negotiations were broken by the strike committee. You talk to them, because they say the opposite. So, if you agree with the Galician board in which anyone who got up from the negotiations was the strike committee, that is, "he broke the negotiations" — in his words, and they remain in writing — transmit to them that the Galician board is still open to negotiate further, because it was not the one who broke the negotiations. So, you recognize exactly the opposite of what they're saying, you side with, in that sense, the position you're holding the Council of Galicia; which I thank you. Just as I also thank you for saying that "the points of discrepancy" — I still read your question — "are still the pay section and the temporary incapacity." Neither does the strike committee say that there is no agreement on any of the five points that are being claimed. Therefore, it is not true that discrepancy is in two, in one fundamentally, but it is true that it is in two in which there is no agreement. You say the discrepancy is in those two, we say so too. I'm glad you're also in agreement with what the Galician Union says. Do you see how it is possible to reach a point of agreement, even with us and even on that subject? I'm glad you're in agreement with us. But let's go to the question. We are going to go point by point, indeed, because there is an agreement from the Galician Parliament that the Galician Union voted in favour, just as the whole Parliament voted, and therefore what we are doing is to comply with it. Let's go point-by-point: First — by reviewing — consolidate the squares that meet the structural needs, especially those of more than three years. You have to know, for many reasons, that there is an agreement signed with three trade unions — with Workers' Committees, UXT and CISF — at the general level throughout Galicia, and therefore also with the employees of the Administration of Justice, where there are 36 squares included in this plan, 36 squares that will be consolidated in the wake of this plan. Therefore, the first agreement has been reached. Second, re-establish the amortized squares in the so-called areas of special acceptance. Mr. Villares, you have to know too, because I was also exercising as a judge at that time, that in 2012 there was a plan to amortize 106 squares. Of these 106 squares, for different reasons, they only came to amortize 10, on the contrary there are 84 new creations. So I think we're also meeting agreement. Third agreement, the increase of 100 per cent of wages in cases of vertical replacements. To understand us it is to demand from the State the reform of state legislation in this sense. Well, you know that there was a discussion here too when there was an interpellation made by the Socialist Party, and we talked about the difficulties arising from the judgments that existed, but in the end an order will be issued to articulate measures that allow non-discrimination of wages here. Negotiate an agreement to eliminate legal discrimination in the treatment of IT situations. Look, first of all, it's not all the office, because the board of Galicia is in the same regime as the employees of the Administration of Justice. So don't you talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u333	Thank you, Vice President. He's got another shift later. [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u334	Mr. Vice-President, in order to reach agreements with the workers, you must be sitting at the denial table; sitting at the table, not under the hidden table. You face it, you face your own contradictions, you face the problems that you have to accept the demands of workers and workers, you are brave and you really take the measures they say you want to take. There's no prejudgment of any kind. There's no concern of any kind because you're not sitting on the table. Do you think the workers and the workers of Justice want to go on strike? Do you think this is a whimsical situation? The fact that the other day there was a demonstration in Galicia, which was the largest democracy in the whole sector, with over 2,000 people from all over the country showing up here, is it a whim of workers and workers? No, it's not. People don't go off on strike; people go on strike because they don't respect their work rights and basic social rights. And that's what they're claiming here. And that's what the House has claimed here for you as a representative of the Government already in December 2017, and it's not fulfilling it, and we're in February 2018. Instead of doing that, instead of solving the problems that citizenship has, solving the problems that justice has, they're going to frighten the employees of the Administration of Justice, so they don't go to strike. They were dedicated to admiring them the other day when they took an instruction, where they banned the workers and the workers from taking the days of release that corresponded to them. So embarrassing was the situation that they had to withdraw hours after that instruction from the Intranet of Justice itself as they had initially done. That was denouncing, and it's also in the trial, that it will dictate whether or not there was a crime to coerce workers for doing that. You've also mutilated yourself, or tried at least through minimal abuse services, so that workers and workers could not go to strike. So abusive were, and so much as they passed from the brakes, which, as has already been explained here this afternoon, in trials such as La Fonsgrada or Becerreá, the minimum services would imply the creation of new squares to be able to fulfill them. That's the ridiculous thing the Council did. So much for the brakes that the strike committee's table announced the minimum services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u335	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u336	Wait, wait, I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u337	No, sorry, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u338	...and publication in the DOG had to amend the minimum service decree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u339	No, not Mr. Villares, your time is up. I know the mechanics. Thank you, thank you, Mr. Villares. [[Applause]] Close this question, Mr Vice-President and President-in-Office of the Council, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u340	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr. Villares, with absolute respect for the workers and workers of the Administration of Justice and all the officials. It's not going that way. There were up to ten meetings. And you -- I just remembered you in your question -- says the negotiations were broken by the strike committee, not by the Galician board. So the message is that the Galician Union is still open. I ask you, too, respect for all the officials, for the administration of justice, too, but also for all the others. You should know -- and I see you don't know him -- when he says there's no discrimination with the rest of the staff. And I was saying when I'm done with the time that the officials of the Galician Council, over ninety thousand, have the same IT discharge regime that the employees of the Administration of Justice have. So -- and I don't talk to you about other workers who aren't officials anymore -- about Galician union workers themselves don't talk about discrimination, I guess I didn't know... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u341	Mr. Villares, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u342	...then I wouldn't have said what you just said. Then he'd have to get a little more information. And with respect to the fifth claim, the wage claim, the mandate of this parliament was... [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u343	Mr. Villares, be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u344	...to equip them on average with the salaries of officials from the rest of the state. Look, the Galician board offer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u345	Mr. Villares! I call you by order, Mr. Villares. Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u346	...Look, the supply of Galician board, 509,5 euros; state average, 498,9. They are on top of this offer, not only of all the autonomous communities — you speak of Ceuta and Melilla, but you know they are more, you know they are a lot more — not only above all the autonomous communities that do not have the competence transferred, which are still being managed by the Ministry of Justice, but also by other autonomous communities that are transferred: La Rioja, Cataluña, Aragon and Valencia in two of the three groups we are talking about. You know that from now on, and you don't say it here. But if you were so interested, Mr. Villares, and we're going to be serious. You're talking about that no proposal has been made, that no offer has been made, that we have no regard for the remunerative needs of the employees of the Administration of Justice, that we haven't done anything in 2018. Look, I'm going to teach you this: "At Marea assumes the claims of the justice staff and asks the Union to see the end of the crisis reach everyone." [[Mr. Rueda Valenzuela shows the House a leaflet and proceeds to read it.]] You met with the workers' representative in 2017, when the 2018 budgets were being drawn up, and in addition to disqualifying how this advisor and the party I belong to, said exactly: "At Marea he has already tabled amendments to the next year's budgets to improve the pay conditions of these workers." I mean, for your claims to be made. Do you know, and should you know, too, the workers -- sure as hell didn't tell you that -- how much did your amendment go up? That on the one hand was going to decrease...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u347	Quiet. Mr. Villares, please! I'm gonna have to call him back to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u348	...the locomotive diets of the Galician Council lawyers to attend the trials, that is, they have to go through their own means. Do you know how far this amendment went? About €181.109. Do you know how much you miss each employee of the Administration of Justice? About 48 euros a year. Do you know how much it's a month? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Four euros a month. This you have to know the workers who are the proposals of En Marea, Mr. Villares' proposals, to match the payouts. This is what it is. [[Applause]] So, when you want to be serious with the workers, talk as we speak, don't do demagogy, and don't deceive them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u349	Thank you, thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u350	...We don't fool them, you do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u351	Mr. Vice President, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u352	And, Mr. Villares, you just found out. Explain this to the administrators of the Administration of Justice, explain to them what this is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u353	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, your time is up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, thank you. Quiet, quiet. [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Lago, please, I'm going to have to call him in order. It's just that I don't like this standing mechanic constantly calling order. They know the mechanics of operation, and we need to be respectful. Then they say it interrupts on one side and on the other, we're constantly interrupting on both sides. I beg you to cooperate on this. And besides, we have guests today. Bad image! [[Murmurs.]] Silence! No, no, quiet. It's not in this case for now. Quiet, please! I'm telling you, I'm talking to you on other occasions, I don't want to go back to this. [[Mr. President is heading to the bench on his right.]] They all respect each other. Next question. Question by Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and three other Members, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the existence of an assessment made by the Galician Council of the impact which would have on the Greek naval the proposal to renew the fishing fleet of height on the Greek shipyards
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u354	Mr. Losada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u355	Thank you, Mr. President. Let's try respect. In the last few minutes of the full I learned two things: the first, the deep sense of what the family means. And I wanted to remember that Mr. Touriño was sitting where today's Secretary of Organization of the Socialist Party of Galicia is sitting. And he wasn't in any Zulu, he was in an office, which, of course, I appreciate the sensitivity of the President of Parliament, Mrs Pilar Rojo. [[Applause]] Then it would be nice if they were to contrast the information. I'd be fine! And I'm going to the question now, Counselor. Given that the shipbuilding industry is one of the sectors particularly sensitive to R & D in the region of Vigo, I want to remember the data you have forgotten: Galicia's R & D effort is 0.87 % of GDP, and Israel's efforts, for example, is 4.1% of GDP; that is, almost five times more. I'm saying this is why you put the answers where they belong. In July 2016, this group presented a non-law proposal, in which we are asking for exactly a concrete plan of action and of reinforcement of the renewal of the fishing fleet, basically of height and basically of Vigo, although also of the port of Marín. It was a plan that contained measures we asked for, on the one hand, the necessary cooperation between Gain and Igape, together with the University of Vigo, the Aclunaga, the Asime; a financing plan also, especially taking into account the levels of implementation of Igape; a plan to support research and innovation; a worker training plan, another very relevant subject, and then we will see that unfortunately it follows on; and, of course, measures that would guarantee quality in employment. Well, as is customary in that work of systematic dialogue and collaboration of the People's Party, and of receptiveness to the opposition's proposals, the People's Party voted against and this was rejected. I imagine that as an indication of his counseling, this plan was rejected in any case. You know that endogenous development allows or should allow the economic resources of a territory, in this case Vigo the Complex Mar-Industria, to promote economic development. In a moment of crisis in the naval sector, in which many shipyards did not literally have any requests, it made sense that it was time to strengthen that necessary modernization, without any doubt, of the fleet's Vigilante fishing. In addition to the budgetary execution levels of the Igape we all know that they were, despite their systematic multi-annuality, say that few, and did not seem to have any budgetary problems; that is, the problem was either ignorance or whimsical, because the opposition presented it. The Vigo Shipowners' Cooperative reaffirmed its need for public support, and unfortunately the Government has done nothing, right up to the countercyclical moment, until there are demands on the yards. So what evaluation do you make of this situation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u356	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Losada, you know perfectly well that this government understands that both the fishing industry and the naval sector are two strategic sectors, two strategic sectors of our economy, and that they have all the support of this government. You're telling me about the Galicia Innova plan, telling me about the innovation bet, telling me about the naval sector... you know that the naval sector leaves 2017 with twenty-nine boat contracts for the Greek shipyards; you know that Galicia has managed to cut 40% of the contracts that make up the bid portfolio for shipyards across Spain; you also know that the recruitment levels amount to over €2,800 million; and you know that the naval sector and the associated metal industry have already recovered 4,400 affiliates. And when you talk about innovation in the naval sector, I think you should recognize that this government is also developing a clear stake in support of the naval sector, promoting R & D+i with tools like the four mixed units that developed with Navantia, with Vulcan and with Wartsila, for about EUR 11 million. He knows we're boosting Formation 4.0 with almost a hundred courses for 2,200 people between 2012 and 2017, and he knows we're also pushing internationalization. Finally, there's a bet for the naval sector, which also has a realization in that naval training plan, which is being carried out. In 2017 57 training courses have already been started with 883 students, and we are investing in the training of our centres in Vigo and Ferrol, and they will soon start these training courses for the workers employed in the sector. I therefore believe that, clearly, when he speaks of innovation, of gambling by the naval sector, of training, the Government is giving concrete answers. Just like the Government, Mr. Losada, is giving concrete answers to the shipowners of the Galician fishing fleet. Therefore, before your question, the answer is a round yes. The Galician Union, before and now, is working with the shipowners' cooperative Arvi, precisely to encourage the renewal of its fishing fleet in Galicia, to promote its competitiveness, and knows that we are doing so much through the Igape, through the Sea Councillorship, developing and articulating the instruments that will facilitate the financing of these operations. I can tell you that, in the last few weeks alone, we have already held four meetings with the Official Credit Trade Institute — with ICO — with the European Investment Bank and also with Arvi, precisely to identify and collaborate with Arvi to deal with the financing of this renewal of... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u358	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u359	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, the truth is he knew some of those things, yes. What surprises me then is why in July 2016 they voted against this initiative. Just tell me about it. Because, of course, if I knew all that, I suppose the industry spokesman in Commission 6 also knew, I'd like to know exactly why they voted against this. Look, indeed, they are now beginning to collaborate with Arvi for the renewal and modernization of the fishing fleet, just as the ship-building market is reactivating. So it's not when in anticyclical terms it would be the role the public should play, Counselor. That's what I mean: as always, late and dragged. By the way, on the subject of collaboration with the Council of the Sea, man!, seeing the levels of execution of the European Maritime Fisheries Fund, I hope that they will cooperate much, well and very widely, because the truth is that they are still worse than their own. So I hope that collaboration there will be mutual self-reinforcement, and I hope that they will be much more successful than with bivalves, crustaceans and, finally, all these little details of the political efficiency of the Government than they are. As regards the employment situation, Mr. Counsellor, look: Asime has just said they need trained workers for the metal of the naval. What have you done in these eight years that there was a dramatic unemployment situation and that the normal thing would be to be training workers for when the cycle improved? What did they do? I don't know. You ask me rhetorically if I know a number of things. I don't know, I know the level of performance of training for unemployed, employees and middle-aged pensioners: low!, a real scandal! And by the way, Mr. Counsellor — and I suppose you also know — the class unions continue to say that the working conditions for ship assistants in Vigo are third-worldists — I say the allegations of the class unions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u360	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u361	So, I'd like to... - That I know some things... - What can you illustrate about it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u362	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Thank you. Close, Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u363	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Losada, the Government logically shares information, and also shares objectives with parliamentary groups. And if we go back to the naval sector, I'll give you the data on how the government is accompanying the recovery of the naval sector. It is precisely a sector that has gone through enormous difficulties — as you well know — because of the tax file that was opened in the European Union, and which, thanks to the joint work, both of the Government and of the sector itself, we were able to recover. Today Galicia is recovering, it's having that leadership and it's also doing it thanks to that innovation bet, the R & D+i and the formation itself. I gave him the data: between 2012 and 2017 there were 2,200 people who received training courses linked to the naval sector for an amount of more than 10 million euros. And I also transferred the current data from the ongoing training plan: 57 training courses were started in 2017 with 883 students and an investment of 4.3 million euros. We are also investing in modernising our training centres in Vigo and Ferrol, with an investment of more than EUR 1 million. And I told you that soon they're going to start the training courses for the busy workers in the sector. If this brings together the calls from the training units for both the employed and the unemployed who have been convened this past week and who are directed specifically to the strategic sectors of the shipbuilding sector, I honestly believe that the naval sector has a firm response by the Government to accompany their training needs. And, moving your question to the collaboration we're developing with the Vigo Shipowners' Cooperative, I told you that we're actually working together to identify training needs. You told us we were late; see, since 2009 this Government has been working with the Welsh fishing fleet, and is collaborating with innovation projects amounting to 2.2 million euros, which is allowing the fishing fleet to have at present technological developments to incorporate these ships. We work in a realistic way because you know that logically, with that funding, you'll have to respond to the needs of each operation. The sector is reactivating, it knows perfectly well the investments of the construction of the Galician ship through Pescanova with that construction of the 7 ships amounting to 42 million euros. And so we're starting a path, and Arvi and the Welsh fishing fleet know the government will be next to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-06-DSPG058.u364	Thank you, Counselor. We'll hold the full till tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
