ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. Let's start with point one, legislating texts. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, amending Law 6/2017, of December 12, of the ports of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u2	For the presentation of the bill, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u3	Good morning. A year ago, the People's Party alone passed Galicia's first Harbour Law. A law of waiting ports that did not respond to expectations, for a law of ports in a country like ours, like Galicia, had to solve multiple problems. That first port law was a missed opportunity to fix many of these pending problems, derived from strategic infrastructures in a country like Galicia, where the sea is vital. The People's Party passed that law alone, from virtually turned back to everyone; a privatizing law of strategic economic and productive activity. It was clear that the real priority was ideological orientation and politics of privatization and business benefit. The goal was not the public service, the goal was unique and exclusively the business, business dynamics, the search for profit instead of cooperation between administrations and rather the public benefit. This port law has been developed from turned backs to the sea sector, from turned backs to neighbouring, and above all from the municipalities where these infrastructures are installed. A clearly recalibrated target, a mercantilist target, the goal of cashing out the city halls. Lack of total dialogue, and also with total discretion. Therefore, in this port law, 122 harbour structures are maintained with their co-responsive spaces inserted into the urban plots of the municipalities; where abusive rates are applied by the use of these public spaces; where intense citizenship activity is carried out in most cases. And they are also maintained as port ownership spaces that, by all logic, should and should be municipal ownership, because they are clearly integrated into the urban plot, into the neighborhood dynamics, and would result in the improvement of the quality of life of neighbors and neighbors becoming municipal ownership. That's why the BNG presents an amendment to that Ports Act 6/2017, of December 12, on a very timely issue: as far as these rates apply to Galician ports are concerned to municipalities and non-profit entities and the need for these spaces, which are owned by Ports but which are fully embedded in the urban plot and is where most of the sport and entertainment activities of the municipalities are carried out, become municipal ownership. And also in the sense that a part of the sanctioning regime refers to the activity of bathing and sport fishing is left to no effect. Many of the municipalities on the shores of the sea have experienced over time many changes in their backs, sometimes for natural and other effects — most of them — by human intervention. These lines have come back at times, but — as I have just said — they are most of the time advanced, modifying the setting of the coast. Many of the land won by the sea has ceased to have a function linked to maritime uses — at the boat level, the cargo and discharge, the marine exploitation — to have a clearly urban use; and therefore, they have remained under the municipal dynamics rather than the dynamics of port uses. At present, and within the urban hulls, there are areas that, if at some point they were coastal, have now ceased to have such character, but they continue to have consideration of maritime-terrestrial areas and are therefore under the jurisdiction of Galician ports. The passage of time has consolidated a situation that had to be resolved, since urban activities and neighborhood activities are carried out in these spaces that are owned by another Administration, of Galician Ports. There is therefore a situation we call it dual. The administration responsible for collecting fees from these spaces is not responsible for the provision of services, the maintenance of the state of the streets, the collection of waste, its urbanization in a very important part. And this dichotomy — which is the most important one — is harming the neighbours and neighbours, who check how there exists, in most cases, abandonment by the Galician Ports of the land they own, preventing, for their part, proper use by the municipality, which, by ensuring the real needs of the neighborhood, assumes management and costs that are not their own. At the same time, there is another reality with regard to the situation of the hotel. We have found that there are host institutions that pay fees for having in their establishment their terrace to the ports of Galicia, and on the sidewalk opposite there are other host settlements that pay their terraces to the Town Hall. We found that there is a difference of 2, 3, 4 and up to 5 times higher than those paid to Galician ports in relation to those paid to the municipalities. So we found ourselves with a regulation of use of two administrations, just passing a street through, with a obvious comparative distress, and with this proposal that we make today at BNG, this situation would be resolved. These spaces are also used for all kinds of activities organized by non-profit entities. As I have just said, in many municipalities there are spaces that are owned by Ports and they are the only spaces that exist in them for sporting, playful or partying activities, with which there are many non-profit entities that do all kinds of activities there — I insist — sports or parties, and that they also have to request authorization from Ports, like the Town Councils, and Ports apply tremendously high rates. And it's not only the fees, but it's asking you to deposit a series of tremendously high bonds -- I would dare say not only high, but abusive -- to carry out these kinds of events. I insist that we talk about neighborhood associations, party commissions, non-profit entities totally. We have therefore found ourselves faced with this collection of taxes and the demand for bail by Ports, many of these entities are in a position to give up organizing activities that have been doing for many years because of the impossibility of dealing with these payments. From BNG we argue that in sports, cultural and leisure activities carried out in public spaces, neighborhoods must be involved, and their organization must not be left to professional operators. So expelling the neighborhood of these spaces is not an option that we defend in the BNG, nor are they defending a very important part of our neighbours and neighbours, with which we find ourselves even more of a question that we believe must be resolved, and that's why this amendment of the port law that today presents the BNG here. Next I'm going to make a tax relationship that's paying different municipalities for activities that have nothing to do with port activity. I shall begin, for example, by the council of Cambados — my council. These rates are not related to port activity, for example, the realization of the weekly market — which takes place twice a week, Wednesdays and Saturdays —, so it pays Galician ports a monthly amount of more than 3,000 euros. That is to say, annually he pays the municipality, for occupying an explanada of title of Ports of Galicia, an amount of more than 50,000 euros. A space that takes care of urbanizing, cleaning and conditioning the municipality itself, but that which is raised is Galician ports, an amount of more than 50,000 euros. By occupying the space called attached to the Town Hall, the Cambados Shoe, which at no point has absolutely no kind of port use, pays more than 15,000 euros. I mean, we're talking about the City of Cambados flying to Galician ports annually very close to 100,000 euros to carry out playful activities for all neighbors and neighbors in spaces where Galician ports don't make any port use at all. We are talking about the Council of Cambados, which has unanimously approved plenary agreements for more than ten years, asking the ports of Galicia to decommission these lands so that they become municipal ownership and that these situations become normal. We can talk about the Sanxenxo Town Hall, which for a space located in the Port of Portonovo Harbour Hall, for one week's parties, pays 6,000 euros. By putting on a tent to make the palliate in Portonovo a weekend, it pays about 3,500 euros. By putting a tent in the hall, one weekend, he pays another 1,500 euros. We can talk about the Grove Town Hall, the intention of the Galician Ports, to celebrate the Carme Party, to charge you 15,000 euros. And figures are also very important for celebrating the little market. We can talk about the Rianxo Town Hall, where Galician Ports came from charging 3,800 euros for the Guadalupe party in 2015, to charge 6,800 euros in 2017. We can talk about the Vilanova Town Hall, where the public school Julius Camba is on land in the ports of Galicia and is paid canon to Costas. Just like the Grove Town Hall. The Grove Town Hall itself is located on the grounds of Ports of Galicia, who pays a cannon for this situation. We can talk about the Fistra Town Hall, where 200 euros a day are paid for by the celebration of local parties. Or 1,000 euros for five days of Carme's parties. Or where abusive charges are paid around 1,200 euros per year on a terrace. We can talk about the Cangas Town Hall, where more than €10,000 is paid for the Carme parties, or more than €1.600 for the market. We can talk about Pontedeme Town Hall, where it pays for annual parties. Where it is paid for the performance of the Sport Party, where it is paid for the walk, the football field... From then on, in a normal relationship where there was a differentiation, in which there was a normal demarcation between urban spaces, of normal use of neighborhood, and the Ports' spaces, of normal use of port infrastructures, this situation would have to be more than solved, so there is a problem, there is an important discomfort in the municipalities of all political colors — of course, of all political colors —, municipalities that demand resolution and non-profit entities that are causing serious prejudice and that are giving up the realization of activities for the entire neighborhood on this issue. So we believe that this amendment to the Ports Act on this particular issue that we bring here today, the Nationalist Block of Galicia, is of course fair to take place. We propose to exempt the municipalities and non-profit entities from paying the fees for carrying out these recreational and sporting activities in public spaces; to initiate the procedure for the axial decommissionation of these spaces demanded by the municipalities that are in the urban plot and that do not have port uses. We propose the creation of a coordinating body between the Towns and Ports to normalize the relationship between Ports and the Towns, and not this current tax relationship by Ports, where there is no dialogue, but order and command; and the elimination of the sanctioning regime for bathing and fishing in port areas without prior authorization. We think it's a necessary change. The People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u5	...has lost the opportunity to leave it fixed in the Ports Act passed exclusively by the People's Party a year ago, but now you have the opportunity to fix it with this amendment we propose. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Round of parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u7	Thank you, President. Good morning. Although Mrs. Prado Colors has given here a lot of examples, I will give others, simply because it seems quite representative to me. Burela, four days of parties, 9,000 euros. That means that party commissions have to kick a lot and that neighbors and neighbors have to bring a lot of money because the first 9,000 euros are for Galician ports. Four days of parties, 9,000 euros. A real barbarity, that's a barbarity. As we have already defended on its day, the Act of ports promoted by the PP in solitary was passed less than a year ago in this House and did not adequately resolve the problem of ports that are within the competence of the Board, because it simply did not have valid solutions to the jointion and coordination of the Galician Board with the councils, and to some extent, this bill now presenting the BNG seeks to establish such solutions. There are several reasons why this law didn't convince us, and at that time we explained them from the Socialist Group, but it was clear that it didn't even convince PP itself, because that law, that port law, it wasn't even part of the PP electoral program in the autonomous elections that took place a year earlier. So they kept her secretly, they didn't put her or included her in their electoral program, and then it was super urgent to get her out of the way, they opened Pandora's box, and, from then on, they started to get out of trouble, questions and money to pay the port charges of Galicia. This law does not convince anyone, as we say, does not convince the councils, it does not convince the parliamentary groups of this House, and I do not speak only of the opposition on this occasion, it does not even convince the PP itself. What were the arguments we made at that time from the Socialist Group? For we express them in the amendment to the whole and in the 177 partial amendments that have been made, 177 partial amendments! It does not contemplate the necessary coordination and participation of the municipalities, it imposes urban considerations that are problematic, but, above all, they are uncoordinated, and could also undermine the principle of local autonomy. It imposes procedures outside the general regulations and even the exclusion of certain works licenses. Nor is coordination measures with the rest of the administrations, reflecting a problematic organizational model and also incomplete, when it should be remembered that income is fundamentally public. And one must not forget that it could create an indeterminate number of public port companies. The law's put into effect, in the end, what came to confirm to the detriment of the sector, to the misfortune of local coastal entities, and in general to the misfortune of all the Greeks, is that we were right about that in our criticisms. We also tabled, as I said before, a number of specific amendments to try to solve some of these problems. Some, very few, were accepted, and for that reason they were trying to include a preposition, a comma... we know the purest style of the PP roller, of 177 amendments. What we asked was the harmonization of port actions with territorial and urban planning and the preservation of the coast in line with its natural, cultural, heritage, landscape and environmental values. Coordination with the rest of the public administrations, because we can't make a law behind public administrations or from behind the Greeks and to the Greeks and their social and cultural reality. The ports are fully integrated into our coastal villages and the villages are fully integrated also into our ports, and we cannot see that reality. For the study of the specific problems affecting the port or group of ports with common characteristics, we included territorial joints integrated by the Rector Council, which would act with advisory and informative functions; in any case, there should be representation of the municipalities concerned. We also included that fees should be exempt from paying public administration bodies or entities, non-profit humanitarian organizations, legally constituted and educational interests, researcher, cultural, social and sporting. And I come back to the reality of the coastal Galician villages. Many of these activities are developed in the Greek ports because sometimes it's the only space available in the villages. In the case of a negative report or a conflict between the ports of Galicia and the municipalities, we call for it to be resolved within two months. The PP didn't want to hear anything or hear anything that had to do with the deadlines. In case of persisting those discrepancies, it was given a 15-day deadline to the Advisory Council, etc., no deadlines! We call on the ports of Galicia to establish an annual programme of actions with the aim of carrying out, in coordination with the municipalities, the pending works to achieve the precise connection between the harbour borders and to articulate the necessary coordination between the authorities with competing competence over the harbour space. General plans and other urban management instruments should include among their forecasts the necessary to contemplate port planning. As I said, none of these specific amendments that I have just said were accepted by the PP of the 177 tabled by the Socialist Group, and so will it be in relation to the ports with the amendment we tabled to the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures itself for this year 2019, as you know today in this Parliament, in which we insisted on this issue and it was not accepted by the PP in the presentation procedure. The amendment provides for the exemption of fees for cultural, recreational activities, trade fairs, exhibitions and other non-port and industrial activities. As I said once again, simply taking into account the reality of coastal villages, where much of the daily activity takes place in ports. Because the ports are again integrated into the villages, and I know that I repeat it, but it seems that sometimes things are done with ignorance or without hearing what is really going on. [[Applause]] As for the Rector Council and the territorial councils, how many of these territorial councils have been established? I'd like to see how many of those territorial joints came into being in the intervention time of the PP. This port law collected the so-called territorial joints for the study of specific problems affecting the maritime facade, which would be composed of the Rector Council, but in practice they are neither valid nor solve any of the problems. So how many of those territorial joints have come into being? We don't know, either. And most importantly, the municipalities are not part of these territorial joints, because there is no guarantee that there is minimal coordination and effective and positive collaboration. So we also tabled amendments to that issue that were not accepted by the People's Party either. We call for five vocals on behalf of local administrations, but the fact is that the Galician Port Law does not collect any body of actual participation in which to address the specific problem of each port with at least participation of the municipalities and the entities concerned. You can't make a port law in which the municipalities aren't included, because then what's going on, that doesn't meet the social and cultural reality of the municipalities, and there are absurd situations like the one reported here by the BNG spokesman or as I told you before, of the 9,000 euros of the Burela Town Hall for four days of parties, that's what happens! But, as I said, this port law has become completely behind the Town Councils. By setting an example of another autonomous community that recently made a port law, that of the Basque Country, Law 2/2018, of ports and maritime transport of the Basque Country, predicts the figure of the municipal harbour councils as an instrument of institutional and social participation to articulate this reality between the Government and the municipalities. Even the considerations of the Fegamp on urban issues, he said that they had to comply with the rules collected, because they could even violate local autonomy. As regards coordination between the administrations, the Economic and Social Council itself said something in the same line. So today we are going to support this consideration of the project that BNG presents because we understand that it is necessary to make a change to a law that does not convince us, as we said, nor does it convince the groups of this House, that the PP is obliged to patch it up, lets the local administrations in a background. A bill that has not been agreed, from back to the Town Hall, from back to the social reality of the coastal Welsh villages, which does not entail solutions for the articulation and coordination between the Town Hall and the Town Hall. So we need to review it and, in that case, we will resume our 177 amendments to try to storm, as the Fegamp said, this project, this law. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. The initiative presented today by the BNG with the aim of allowing the process to be processed by the bill will be supported by our group, to then bring our own considerations into the presentation process. We support your admission to the procedure because it coincides basically with our starting position. A coherent position, with a constant discourse of initiatives that have been presented to the Committee on Fisheries and refer to the proposal for a law, the Galician Ports Act, which has already been amended to its entirety since our parliamentary group. A law with an obvious economic criterion, a disincentive, because instead of collecting the complex situation of the numerous coastal municipalities of Galicia, which have part of their areas of use as a citizen, spaces where markets, holidays and sometimes buildings of public use are held, as may occur with the Grove's consistural building, on land that belongs to Galician ports or that belongs to the State coasts and is managed by Ports, and the economic benefit of this circumstance is taken away. The Grove case, because of its situation, may represent one of the most serious of all the Greek geography. However, as we have already mentioned, it is not the only one. In the Arousa River itself, municipalities such as Cambados, Illa or Vilanova have similar problems. In fact, in Vilanova, the municipal school of the urban helmet is in port lands and that makes it difficult to expand the educational centre that is intended to be carried out. The restrictions on the use of the space that is own to him by Ports cause many problems in the municipalities where the quays are part of the proper and necessary space of the small towns, which is the case of all the shores of the Coast of Death. At the Morrazo, the Boeu Town Hall has already denounced the Fegamp with a series of considerations surrounding the problems that arise from the public harbour domain. In any case, it is a law that makes it difficult to obtain authorizations for sporting and cultural events in the municipalities concerned, which have asked for the decommissioning of the harbour spaces that currently do not have these uses, and in which the pecuniary demands imposed by the public entity Ports of Galicia to allow events to be held in the lands of their competition endanger the celebration of holidays in different municipalities, as they have already reported in Salnès. A legislation that leads to absolute neglect and allegations of lack of maintenance and conservation of spaces that do not have port use. The only reason to legally maintain this anachronistic situation in a struggle for collecting power, is, in our group's view, the benefits of disproportionate tolls imposed on the municipalities for the normal development of their citizens' activities. A recollective and mercantilist vision of Galician ports in which the figures are disproportionate to the budgets that manage small municipalities like Fisterra, where he forced to pay more than 12,000 euros for the installation of terraces and bars, the 24,000 that paid O Grove for the Marish Festival, and fines up to 60,000 euros for fishing in port areas. These are the problems that lead to many local entities that a part of their urban core is held by Ports de Galicia. So we are faced with a situation that is not adapted to the new social and urban reality of the municipalities and must be changed. For everyone it is known that, over the past few decades, certain works have been carried out that have made the villages grow, but possibly what years ago had a sense that was not of port ownership, now it doesn't. societies and villages change, and regulations must also do so, but unfortunately the Galician Union has remained in the past, particularly before 1975. To conclude, the concrete amendments to Law 6/2017, of 12 December, of the Ports of Galicia, would be the creation of a municipal port coordination body responsible for articulating the relations between the port administrations and the municipal administrations, and on which the specific conditions would be laid down in that body's head, both in its composition and in its competences. It is absolutely necessary to establish mechanisms that prevent different views from being applied on the same territory and, in many cases, contrasting when they occupy the same spaces and must satisfy the same citizenship. In many cases, ports are used as a tool of partisan attack when the color of the municipality and port authority is different, something unacceptable in terms of economic and port development. The exclusion of sport fishing and the prohibition on the development of marine and fishing activities in the inland waters of the port, constituting zone 1 where the limits and their definition are to be established. The exemption of local and non-profit entities from the contents of Section 2a of Chapter 2 of Title III, so that permits for leisure and similar facilities, proposed by local authorities, do not have to follow this procedure. Stop considering a breach of bathing and fishing activities, and add a new provision to establish that urban spaces, which, even belonging to Galician ports, are fully integrated into the municipal urban plot, are transferred to the municipalities if so requested. They therefore seem to us to be all appropriate measures for the benefit of the citizenship of the coastal municipalities currently affected by that law, which the Union should immediately change if what it wants is to legislate for the Greeks and the Greeks instead of benefiting from a right from the past. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u11	Thank you, President. Good morning. We are going to go directly to the specific points of your taking into account this amendment of the law, Mrs Prado, we are not going to do municipal policy by trying to amend the laws adopted in this Parliament by parliamentary procedure, by the corresponding amendments and by the corresponding debate. I have to remember before I started that when I rule the Bipartite, I also charge those fees, as it seems here that when I rule the PSOE and the Block were not charged those fees to the municipalities, and indeed it was done. So today they make a speech that has no meaning, a speech oriented — as I say — to municipal policy, concrete and localism, when this law is a law made for the ports of Galicia, made for the maritime sector, made for the future, and in addition to a clear objective, which is to improve competitiveness and to improve the integration of ports into towns and municipalities, because there is no hint, in the development of this law, that it had made itself back to the municipalities. A point for Mrs. Toja, who says there's the PP roller; we're used to listening to the PP roller. Look, I'm going to tell you, since we're both in commission 8th, that in committee 8th, in which we have legislation, we approved 61 PNL, 30 from the PP and 31 from the opposition. Yes, no knee, no knee, Mrs. Toja! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Balance, at least balance, because there's one more than... yes, man, yes, of course! [[Applause]] The first point, because if I'm not going to have time to explain exactly what they're proposing. Here they talked a lot about municipalities and specific cases, but exactly what they're proposing is the amendment of a law that was actually approved a year ago. First of all, you suggest that permits for leisure facilities and similar facilities proposed by local authorities and non-profit entities do not apply Articles 59 to 64 of Law 6/2017, and that they remain exempt from the payment of fees for carrying out activities in the so-called public harbour domain both local administrations and non-profit entities. Generalize in this case the exemption from the need to have a public domain occupation title in the stated terms, as it is in the planning of its proposal, causing perverse effects, such as these two I will tell you. First, the legal instrument that will cover this occupation by administrations and non-profit entities is not defined, with which the control and management function of that space remains in the air. As always, it's a concrete proposal that you say here, but it's a bit behind the threshold of legal security. Lack of profit does not exclude economic profitability on many occasions. There may be sporting events, there may be, as you say, activities of different associations, but that does not exclude economic performance or the results of the exploitation of an activity that generates economic performance. If with this point of motion you intend to change or you intend to change the fees charged because you say that they are abusive — we do not consider them abusive, then I will explain why — this text of Law 6/2017 is not the right one, because you know that until now the port charges, the general tax legislation, the prices and regulatory expositions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, that is regulated in Law 6/2003, of 9 December, and therefore that law is the one that regulates so far the fees to be charged at any time. It should be noted that a similar amendment by the Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group in the parliamentary process has already tabled an amendment with almost similar text and was rejected. So, nothing new says now, nothing about whether the municipalities that seek exemption from authorisation won't charge them any different fees for celebration or development of different activities. I just read last November that associationism finds itself with the Tide in Coruña; i.e., movements and collective neighbors and traders of the Coruña have found obstacles of all kinds, sanctions, and many economic and recovery problems to celebrate and carry out their activities. So you want Galician ports to stop having this charge of fees for certain activities, but yet nothing says of what certain municipalities also charge for doing so. With regard to the integration of spaces into urban areas, this group tabled a motion for a resolution in the debate of the General Policy Act, in the debate on the state of autonomy — specifically the motion for a resolution number 40 of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group — and you did not vote in favour of that resolution. And you know what he said? That the Galician Parliament calls on the Galician Union to move forward in the redefinition of the port-ville, port-city relationship, with the impetus of the work of the working group created with the Fegamp to advance the use of the continuity spaces etc. That is to say, precisely what you are asking for in this amendment of this law, Mrs Prado, we present it with a motion for a resolution and you voted against, and this is the line we want to develop, as you are working with the Fegamp. We understand that it is a priority, in addition, to close this working group and apply its conclusions above partisan or localist approaches such as those formulated by the Nationalist Block Galego. You also always talk about one or two municipalities, which are the ones you know, of their scope, and that's interesting, you have all the legitimacy to do so, but we have 122 ports that belong to 67 municipalities throughout Galicia. Another approach is that the municipal port coordination body is created as an instrument of institutional and social participation in port matters. You here say that the law has gone back to the Town Councils, and we want to know what time, where and why you make this statement. In the parliamentary process there were the relevant public exhibitions, we had the debate, it was a completely legal and normal processing and, in addition, the municipalities themselves and Fegamp participated in the drafting of this law. So I don't know why you say there's no collaboration between municipalities for drafting this law because that's not true, that's not true. What you want to do here seems to us to be trying to usurp an autonomous competition to give it to the municipalities. They're entitled to make these changes, but the truth is, when the Bipartite was running this procedure it was the same, you didn't change it, and now they're trying to change it. In Law 6/2017 there are already outstanding mechanisms for that port-town coordination without the need to articulate another organ as you propose, another chiringuit, which is what you like to do. Therefore, it is clearly defined in the articles of this law the relationship between the ports and the municipalities. Once again, the Galician Nationalist Block, and as we see here also the rest of the opposition groups, want to remove port management from the Autonomous Community, which has, in this case, the competence of port management. Another of its proposals is that a procedure be carried out between the municipalities and the ports of Galicia, following the request of the council concerned, in order to transfer to the municipalities the title of the public-portual domain spaces which are integrated into the urban areas of towns and cities and which do not have port use. As I said, we have 122 ports and 67 coastal municipalities, but look, what you have to know is that Ports has already constituted since last July the work table with Fegamp to technically evaluate requests for decommissioning. And I'm going to tell you how many petitions there are, because last November 27th took place the last meeting to evaluate these requests and there were thirteen municipalities throughout Galicia that submitted this request: Viveiro, Mugardos, Manion, Cariño, Corcubion, Fisterra, Laxe, Ponticesures, The Isle, Poio, Moaña, Bueu and The Guard. Grove didn't present anything, Portonovo nothing, Cambados nothing. We see those very belligerent municipalities in the press, Mrs. Prado. You talk about them here today, but they don't present anything, when they have the potential tools to present the disaffectations and they can do it on the legal basis, which is how to do it, and they don't. So it seems that here again, or again, the Galician Nationalist Block assumes one of the amendments that the Socialist Party presented, which was that the Galician Union had approved, within a maximum of a year, a report on Galician ports, a catalogue of spaces that could be used for urban use. You should know that in order to unaffect the space service area, you must first have approved the delimitation of harbour uses and spaces. Here they go directly one step forward by overstepping the laws, and in that delimitation of spaces is where the needs of future spaces for ports, the reserve of spaces, the connection to different means of transport, so you cannot skip that legal figure. An isolated solution in terms of mere localism — as I said before — is not allowed, as it would endanger port exploitation and port and port management itself in relation to the municipal urban management set. So we cannot accept this proposal either. Finally, it says that the sanctioning regime envisaged for the bathroom, for fishing, for diving etc. is modified. First, tariffs or sanctions are not abusive. We have laws in other autonomous communities in which they are much larger, even at the state level. I'll tell you the case of Andalusia. Fishing and bathing are already prohibited in Andalusia. Here you know that in the article it says that, if authorized, you can do it. The most serious fine and penalty that is foreseen and laid down in this Law 6/2017 is EUR 600,000, and in the Andalusia it is EUR 1,200,000. I'm going to tell you one thing, the reasons for this measure are maritime security reasons, they're also reasons for environmental security. What if a person comes to do their marine-fishing activity and has an accident or a collision with someone who's fishing there, diving or swimming? What's going on there? What legal vacuum do we leave on the table? As always, jumping all over it. This, without nuances, in the law of Andalusia, in the law of the Canary Islands, in the law of Balearics, in the law of Cantabria, etc. The sanctions are contemplated, and in no case can we accept that you say they're abusive because they're not. And when it comes to security, you won't find us changing any laws. So — and I am finished, Mr President — everything is unknown, everything is to make an attempt, a summons or a local policy. If it is true that municipalities sometimes have some difficulty making some payments or modifications in this case. But we say that this is a law made with all technical assets, with all guarantees, in addition, for the ports of Galicia and with all guarantees for the municipalities; with a collaboration between the municipality and fundamental ports. And it's also made with an objective, which is to improve the competitiveness of Galician ports. Here you talked little about maritime activity, little about fishing activity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u13	...and the very activity of the ports of Galicia. So we're not going to accept this consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Replica. Author group of the bill, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u15	Madam, what we want is not to eliminate port management, what we want is that Galician ports manage ports but that urban spaces manage the municipalities, that we are talking about urban plots and spaces inserted into urban plots. We're talking, for example, about the Grove Town Hall. The normal thing is, if it's the Town Hall's own house, that it's in an urban space and that it manages the Town Hall. We're talking about the avenue of Cambados, of the Julius Camba College of Vilanova, of the alley of Carril, of the alley of Vilaxoán... of urban spaces, of housing buildings, for example, in Moaña, of whole streets. We're talking about sentiment, and you, when you don't have any arguments, talk about what we've come here to do municipal politics. These questions, of course, BNG presented them as amendments to the Ports Law because they were common-sense issues that demanded them from the municipalities. But you, in your absolute knee policy, didn't address anything at all, you didn't address any minimally logical questions, and as you didn't, the problems are still there. I insist, these demands are not from the Councils of the BNG, they are the demands of the Town Councils of the BNG, the Town Councils of the People's Party, the Councils of the Tides of the People's Republic, the People's Councils of the Tides of the People's Republic, the People's Councils of the Tides of the People's Republic, the People's Councils who are there day by day and who are faced with the difficulty that they have to manage, that they have to urbanize, that they have to keep in condition, it turns out that Ports collects the fees, that they don't take care of them in condition, and it's the same municipalities that have to keep in condition some spaces that are the ports they have to pick up, and it's the Town Councils that have to keep them in condition above. That's the reality! And as you have Ports as a registration box, not to solve the problems of neighbors and neighbors, who for that have the Town Councils, they refuse to fix it. That's very good! So, generalizing causes turns out to be a perverse effect. Because you say so! What we want is, indeed, that there is a body to regulate relations between Ports and the municipalities because they are neither regularized nor normalized, that is the reality. We want an agency to promote cooperation and understanding between administrations rather than the blockade and the difficulty, which is what is now between Ports and the municipalities. And there's blockage and difficulty because there's no equal relationship. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] No, there's no relationship equal because what's happening right now is that the municipalities pay and Ports is what the menu says, how and when it's done. The reality is that activities of a play, culture, sports and social nature, as well as other services — such as goods and so on — have more and more problems and must take on abusive and super abusive rates. And sport is exclusively a collection interest and boxing. That's right. This I suppose you know it's an admission to the procedure, and if you consider that there are issues, such as what you just said, that create legal insecurity, you admit the procedure and then, in the process, these issues will usually come up. That's easy! If the problem is a problem that, as we have raised, creates legal insecurity, then modify it in the process. Your partner, Mr. Fernández Prado, in an 8th Commission said what the mechanism was. The mechanism is to make the declaration of necessity, because then these lands have to pass the state-dependent public domain of the sea-terrestrial. After that process, they'll give in to the municipalities... i.e. the mechanism exists. And the creation of technical groups between Fegamp and Ports, all those mechanisms we already know what they are for. When there is no political will to solve the problems, technical groups will be created. So the political will is adopted here with the amendment of a law that says that this mechanism is not intended to be carried out. In fact, you voted against, and to show the political will that they want to solve the problem, vote in favour and then technically look into how to solve it. If you don't change that position, you won't tell me that there are technical groups evaluating the situation. Because to change the position, we have to make a political change, and you, voting again, don't show a political change. What we know is that today there are these unfair charges to non-profits, such as in Rock in Rio, in Vilanova, 12,000 euros of bail. Thus, a non-profit is impossible for him to perform. We can talk in Rianxo about the retirement association, which was in the Confr. Ports came from charging him $1,000 to charge him 9,000, which is impossible to keep there. That's the performance that Portos has every day: a pursuit of collection, of cash...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u17	...the cost of the activities that the citizenry wants to do and the activities that the municipalities want to do. That's the reality. And you, instead of voting and changing that situation, what they do is they create a technical group that doesn't aim to change the situation, but they seem to want to change it, uniquely and exclusively. But how things change is voting for them to change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. As already reported to the groups, the proposed law of the authorship of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea was approved. So now we continue with the other bill, which appears in third place. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, for the promotion of social responsibility in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u19	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor to present the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialists today bring a bill on social responsibility. Social responsibility — as you all know —, ladies and gentlemen, is a commitment to citizenship. Social responsibility must be understood as the way to address public policies based on the management of the impacts that these public policies generate on citizenship and on the environment. You know that social responsibility began within the European Union in 2001, with the presentation of the Green Paper on corporate social responsibility. Seventeen years later, we understand that there is no legal framework in which this commitment of the Greek community to social responsibility is placed. So we socialists today bring this bill for its consideration, waiting for a positive welcome from all political groups. Because citizenship, gentlemen, would not understand that the Galician Union does not lead a project to advance towards the Europe 2020 Strategy, geared to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. Because citizenship would not understand that the Galician Union does not develop socially responsible actions and policies within the framework of the autonomous administration. But I would also not understand the citizenship that the Galician Union is not a vertebrate element, of guidance and support for local entities, for businesses, entities and organizations, self-employed people and therefore citizenship as a whole, so that they can put in place policies, plans, programmes or projects in which social, environmental and economic sustainability criteria are assumed. Social responsibility is therefore the commitment to voluntarily adopt measures to achieve a more just and environmentally sustainable society. And this commitment requires a legal framework that regulates initiatives within a strategy of its own. The social responsibility contained in this bill is based on four fundamental pillars, obviously starting — as it cannot be otherwise — from strict compliance with the legal minimums established. The pillars are employment, to avoid job precariousness; social, to seek social integration; the environment, to take care of the environment; and good government practices. Social responsibility for employment presents measures necessary for the promotion of quality in employment: continuous improvements in labour and remuneration conditions, stable employment creation and reduction of temporality or interimity, continuing training, vocational training, improvement in employment conditions, taking into account the premises of social dialogue, collective bargaining and participation, promoting innovation and entrepreneurship, promoting self-employment and the social economy. Social responsibility in the social field sets out the necessary measures to promote the inclusion of groups at risk of social exclusion, equal treatment and non-discrimination, equal opportunities between women and men, equal pay, reconciliation of personal, labour and family life and the full accessibility of people with functional diversity. [[Applause]] Social responsibility in the environment proposes measures to minimize environmental impact and carbon footprint, reduce the effects of climate change, responsible and sustainable consumption, promote biodiversity and the preservation of the Greek ecosystems, landscape and cultural and historical heritage. Finally, the fourth pillar, in good government, takes the necessary measures to have regard to the development of ethical codes; transparency, management and access to public information; improvement of the quality of services provided to citizenship; reduction of administrative burdens; and socially responsible public procurement — point where I will stop later —. This bill consists of 29 articles, 3 additional provisions, 1 derogation provision and 1 last provision. Title I of this law contains, on the one hand, the adoption of a Greek social responsibility plan for Galicia, as a planning and management tool to carry out its policy in coordination with the state plans on the subject. The objectives, measures, actions and indicators to be adopted during their lifetime will be set in this plan. An annual memory is also established, including the set of policies, measures and actions developed by the Galician Union and its instrumental public sector, which are within the scope of social responsibility. Title II speaks of social responsibility in the Greek entities, and collects as socially responsible entities workers and self-employed persons, companies and entities and all kinds of public and private organizations who, qualified in accordance with the procedure provided for in this law or in their regulatory development, have adopted voluntary integration into their government, in their management and in their business strategy of the values of social responsibility set out in this bill. It also includes the evaluation of social responsibility, which will be through a memory that collects analytical results, as well as the evaluation of aspects that integrate social responsibility. It also includes verification of social responsibility through external audits; the badge that believes these Galician entities as socially responsible; a register of socially responsible Galician entities and a number of benefits that would be granted from the declaration of these socially responsible Galician entities. Benefits that may be in the field of public procurement, in the matter of granting public aid and subsidies or reputational benefits, such as exhibiting the badge or being able to use it in all its advertising as socially responsible companies. Certain tax and publicity benefits can be established to identify companies qualified as socially responsible entities in Galicia. Social and business responsibility awards are also foreseen in Galicia, which would be annual, to reward those entities who, previously qualified as socially responsible entities, highlighted in the promotion of these values of social responsibility. And finally, in Title III, the Galego Social Responsibility Council, which would be the reference body to promote and advise the programming of the public policies of the Autonomous Administration in the field of social responsibility. The actions to be taken by the Galician Union for the promotion of social responsibility are also envisaged, such as subsidising the performance of certificates of standards or standards of social responsibility; subsidising the development of equality plans; encouraging the achievement of the Greek brand of excellence on an equal footing; encouraging work conciliation measures or promoting advisory programmes for entities. So we understand that social responsibility is an issue that can't be postponed for longer, that has to be promoted from now on and that the Galician Union must be that driving thread so that social responsibility spreads to the whole social layer, to the whole citizenship and to all the Greek companies, little by little, and with its help. [[Applause]] As I said at the outset, this proposal for a law of social responsibility has a fundamental aspect in what I'm going to stop a little, which speaks of socially responsible public procurement. The Autonomic Administration must use public procurement as a strategic tool to incorporate social, environmental and ethical criteria into recruitment requirements. The Autonomic Administration must therefore promote socially responsible public procurement, promote integrity pacts in public procurement and also reserve participation in the adjudication processes of certain labour contracts, supplies and services to special employment centres and insertion companies. The Autonomic Administration must include social liability clauses in public procurement in a variety of ways. Incorporating a contract clause in all public contracts establishing that persons or entities, contractors or subcontractors, subsidiary undertakings or interposts, cannot carry out financial operations in tax havens that are considered to be criminal, avoiding money laundering, tax fraud or offences against the public farm. You have to incorporate the warning that the contract is subject to compliance with the current legal provisions that result in employment, social security or health at work. It must incorporate the obligation of tendering persons or entities to indicate the collective agreement establishing the most beneficial conditions which shall be compulsory for persons carrying out the activity subject to the contract. The person or adjudicator shall, throughout the life of the contract, pay the salary collected in the collective application agreement establishing those most beneficial conditions. And in those contracts requiring the adjudicate to be obliged to subrogate as an employer in certain labour relations, you should inform the tenderers of the conditions of the contracts of workers and/or workers affecting the subrogation that is necessary in order to be able to assess the labour costs involved in such a measure. They must also determine the criteria for adjudicating the contract to the most advantageous offer, but not only should the lowest price be taken into account, but also efficiency parameters, as long as they do not affect the impairment of labour, wage and social conditions of workers and workers affected by recruitment or subcontracting. It shall also include environmentally friendly products as a criterion for the adjudication or condition of the execution of a contract. Finally, it will include non-discriminatory language clauses relating to the use of Greek during the execution of contracts. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of all political groups, today we have the opportunity to vote in favour of the consideration of this bill, so that it will have a result that will have an impact on the improvement of our entire citizenship, as I said at the outset, by making a more just and environmentally sustainable management. Nothing else in this first intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u22	Thank you, President. Good morning. Since the BNG we've wanted to make some preliminary considerations because in this social responsibility there's a music that sounds good but the lyrics don't sound so good. We have certain cautions, certain mistrusts and a very critical vision of the discourse of corporate social responsibility and of the companies that have its origin in the attempt to legitimize and wash up the image of large multinational corporations, of what is now called -- look at the term -- "inclusive capitalism," a contradiction in itself. We're also talking about integrative growth when really that growth is leading to the greatest inequality quotas in history. Of course, here is an operation that can be called the prosperous business of social responsibility, that is, the business strategy to increase business volume and disable criticism. We are in a context in recent decades of criticism of the actions of large corporations, of large multinationals, who do not respect the most fundamental principles of human rights, of environmental law and of labour rights, and of discredit and bad image, and what we do is this face-washing operation to conceal abuses and serious violations of human rights. Of all these campaigns that arose in the 1990s against companies such as Nike, such as Nestlé, such as McDonald’s or Shell, the clearest, most notorious example was the complaint against Nike for child exploitation in his manufacturing of products, which gave rise to this response by these large companies, who changed the rules of the game. Because if there were standards, states-based regulatory relationships, a process of deregulation, of disappearance of those norms, of these controls, and a substitution of what is called self-regulation, which is this voluntary commitment to social responsibility, a voluntary commitment. But we are not worthy of voluntary commitments, there must be rules, state regulations, do not lower those rules, those regulations, and then stop this self-regulation, these commitments of welfare and social commitment from these companies, because we don't believe it. What's to keep firm and position. This has already been announced in 1972, in a historic speech at the United Nations Assembly, nothing but Salvador Allende.: "We are facing a frontal conflict between large corporations and states. These appear to be interfered in their political, economic and military decisions by global organizations that do not depend on any state and that are not controlled by any parliament." It's about changing that framework of relationships, but we're not worth that invention that has a lot to do with co-governance. Indeed, agreements between governments, civil society and the private sector. We want rules, we want principles, we want regulation, we want rights. Nor is it worth us — which is at the origin of this framework of social security — the global pact promoted by the United Nations to give a human face to the world market, with companies' commitment to human rights. But what is this? Do companies undertake to respect human rights? It's because they have to respect them by law, it's not voluntary commitments. Or the commitment to the eradication of child labour. But what are we talking about? And in this same framework the Green Paper of the European Union, which has been promoting voluntary integration, has already been said by the Socialist spokesperson. This is not about voluntary integration, there must be a mandatory framework for compliance for companies. The paradox is then given in recent decades that, with the excuse of the economic recession, the greatest loss of social and labour rights of the last century is imposed by working counter-reforms which, as it can be seen, is not intended to derogate, with backwardness in the field of labour stability, collective bargaining, the right to strike, wages, dismissal or unemployment coverage, and is changed by these voluntary agreements, by these voluntary commitments, by developing this genuine framework of corporate social responsibility, which turns out to have ethical concerns now, order! Ethical, social, labour and environmental concerns. And they commit themselves, for example, not to do fiscal fraud and not to act... but that's a crime! How can you commit not to commit crimes? It's just a joke! Commitments have to be on the law, not on the voluntaryness of companies. And then we give Telefónica or Endesa, which we already know what they do around the world, and Iberdrola or Ence too, which now has a biofactory, this social responsibility seal because they collaborate in altruistic and benefactory actions. It's clear from the companies responsible for this matter, Mapfre's director of communication and social responsibility: social responsibility has its roots in this cosmetic purpose that always accompanies us in the company. The Director of Corporate Reputation of Telefónica: if we are unable to link corporate social responsibility to customer loyalty, revenue maximization and cost reduction -- that's going to tell me how it's compatible with social and labour rights -- I don't think we're going to be a central or nuclear figure in business management. In fact, in the last decade, in Europe above all, all this legislation has come about, and in the Spanish State it has also been transposing, through different laws and rules, the Spanish Strategy 2014-2020 of corporate social responsibility, which has led to the spread of business and not precisely in the public sector. Galicia here, the truth, is very late because it did not act systematically in any of the three areas that are proposed in the case of the public sector: neither in the promotion and development of the social responsibility of public administrations and their own companies, nor in the introduction of social clauses in public procurement - and here we can refer to all administrations, also to places, we are not only blaming the autonomous administration - and Galicia is also at the side of the state in the application of the possibilities offered by law on contracts reserved to third sector entities, and here there is also an important way to go. What we see is that there are setbacks and regressions, because they say that with the new contract law it's going to favor small and medium-sized companies and what we see is all the opposite. In the case of ambulances, cleaning and safety in buildings, it supports large corporations and large economic groups and undermines the working conditions in the Union contracts, as we also see in the case of cleaning contracts and women's wage discrimination, despite multiple parliamentary agreements and laws that we have to promote these types of measures. We go very far behind most autonomous communities in the state, for example in Navarre, which has long had a very advanced law, which establishes 6% of the contracts for the recruitment procedure reserved for labour integration companies. In Galicia there are also examples of municipalities, recently the case of Moaña, which has taken a step forward in this direction too. With regard to the specific, the Socialist Party's proposal for a law, we are going to vote in favour of the consideration, which we think is a very good text within this framework, this approach, of focusing efforts on public administration. You guys here have been an adaptation of the Valencian law, which is 2017, to foster social responsibility, what happens is that they applied a little to the barrage and put the scissors, especially in those aspects that seem to us to be the most advanced of that Valencian law. For example in Article 2, you propose that the law apply only to the autonomous administration and to all bodies of the autonomous administration, and the Valencian law speaks of the autonomous administration, the local administration and also of the public universities, and specifically mentions Parliament, the Council of Culture, the Council of Auditors, the Economic and Social Committee, the Consultative Council and the People's Valdour. All these organisms must be incorporated into the law, they are in Valencian and they should also be in Galician. This is later, and we hope that the procedure will be accepted and that we can discuss it in the presentation. Of course, we're going to go this way to the maximum that the law permits. It is noted that in Article 2(4) of the Valencian Law, the provisions of Title III will also apply, in addition to the Public Administration, to companies, entities, organisations and self-employed workers, and you do not know why, and these things are not casual, they have made a change and they have "will be of voluntary application." We would take away the voluntary word; Valencian says they will be applied, and it is understood that mandatory for everyone. In the case of articulation, Valencian talks about public administrations and you talk about self-government, I suppose this will be about local autonomy, which is so important to the Socialist Group, but we prefer this law to be established for all administrations, also for the local administration. Then, in Article 10, for example, he speaks of a very dangerous issue, which is the social responsibility and cooperation for development, with the figure — which also appears in Valencian law — of public-private partnerships with organizations for development cooperation, for projects in which these companies would participate precisely to wash their image, such as Endesa, Iberdrola and others. There is also another aspect that seems important and interesting to us to highlight in the case of Valencian law, such as article 17 in the Plan of Social Responsibility, which in the case of Greek refers only to the autonomous administration and in the case of Valencian includes a paragraph which refers to that the rest of the public administrations, within their competences, may have planning instruments that will serve to assess their inclusion in the network of socially responsible territories, and creates the figure of the "socially responsible territories". Finally, to have a standard like this, which would, above all, boost the social performance and social responsibility of the Administration, seem to us a modest step forward. We want to go as far as law is concerned and we are going to vote in favour of its processing, although we insist that here is the key to standards, laws, which force companies to comply with fundamental rights, social rights, labour rights, human rights, ethics and the equality and integration of all people who need the impetus of public administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u23	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u24	In the face of the debate of this bill, there is a need for prior reflection, and it is that in democratic societies, or theoretically democratic societies, there should be no alternative to democratic culture, neither should companies, in which much of humanity spends much of its time and also have a number of impacts that often affect democracy itself. This also has to do with the fact that companies should not be linked to cooperation in interests that a democratic society considers to be strategic, fair, and this is largely what corporate social responsibility is about. If it is true that there is a substantive debate — as Mr Bará put it here — which is summed up in whether capitalism is compatible with democracy, because lately it seems that we are going more and more than not, and the rise of political forces like VOX so confirm it. You're betting on an incompatibility between capitalism and democracy, it's obvious. But far from these fundamental debates, which are fundamental, we advance our vote in favour of this PSOE bill to the extent that it implements a unanimous parliamentary agreement in 2014 but which so often lacks practical materialization. If we believe that there has to be a legal representation of this commitment to corporate social responsibility, and we do believe that this law would improve both employment and the fight against climate change in the country, especially with regard to socially responsible public procurement, which is what regulates the law most. As the previous BNG spokesman said here, there are other issues that remain more to the voluntaryness of companies, but as far as promoting socially responsible public procurement is concerned, we are absolutely in favour, and we believe that this bill, which we would incorporate into amendments, would already improve the legal framework in this situation in our country. Corporate social responsibility is based on companies' awareness of the economic, social and environmental impacts of their own activity, integrating in their strategic plan voluntary actions at both internal and external level, so that all their assets, from staff, communication, collaborative companies, subcontracting as well, act in accordance with this policy and established business ethics. But not all companies, unfortunately, take this approach seriously, considering corporate social responsibility as a loss of money rather than an obligation in an advanced society. Even there are issues that shouldn't be in question, it's worth redundancy, or like an investment that would even bring benefits. The European Union has tried to promote corporate social responsibility, including in this European Strategy 2020, but we see that, as on many occasions, the European Union only takes — often in the states and much more in the companies — what remains right, not what proposes social improvements. Among the main international trends in sustainability that should be guaranteed by this corporate social responsibility, we highlight the fight against climate change, which has already been highlighted by the initiative. It is a fundamental challenge of humanity. Back to the background debate is it compatible with the current socio-economic model the preservation of the biosphere? We don't know — probably not, either — but the case is that this fight can no longer be postponed and that this bill would improve the confrontation against climate change in our country. Another trend that must be taken into account in corporate social responsibility is wage equity, social responsibility in employment, as defined by law, fiscal responsibility, diversity and social inclusion, and also the fundamental point of social clauses in responsible public procurement, where we see that, between the intentions expressed in agreements in this Parliament and the practice, there is still a third. So we want to focus this intervention on pointing out examples that happen in our country, which happen through the Autonomic Administration, against corporate social responsibility, which make this legal regulation of corporate social responsibility necessary, both in companies and in the Union. There are holders who are incompatible with corporate social responsibility, for example, when companies such as Indidex anticipate workers' health benefits, such as when the Union itself hires precariously firefighting personnel or when the Union is exposed to precariousness in the area of senior residences. This is not a corporate social responsibility. As far as climate change is concerned, I think that no one can ever deny the dramatic impact of climate change on people's natural systems and lives, even in their own health, but, at last, there are still those who are committed to denying it. In this case and in this challenge, technological innovations are essential. So, by means of responsible public procurement, another kind of energy could be promoted, it could be encouraged that companies have improved in sustainability, however, what we see in the country is that the Union itself is consistent with megamining, there we have the Touro mine, the private transport bet, the bet by Ence, and it does not have a clear strategy towards that necessary restructuring that has to happen towards the end of coal, and finally what it is doing in defence of employment is not having a strategy, and what it will probably do will put those jobs at risk. As far as wage equity is concerned, the fundamental rights to have union representation and collective bargaining are threatened by the Union itself, and we see it on 8 March. When it's really undermining the right to strike, how will Junta then foster corporate social responsibilities? We also saw that the Union — another more incomplete agreement — did not drive that 2016 agreement to have a collective negotiation in the Italian field to improve pay equality in the country. Corporate social responsibility is also incompatible with high rates of temporary recruitment, extra hours undeclared, non causality in recruitment, forced bias, temporality, wages of misery, all these elements that companies in the country have. So here we find a diversity between desires and practice. Another example of how the Union understands wage equity and labour rights are temporary recruitment lists, employment overexploitation by non-covery of vacancies and absences — far from knowing a lot about health, education, justice, fight against fires, social policy centres — or hiring companies that directly do not comply with labour law; there is the North Group, a clear example of wage discrimination. How is this married to corporate social responsibility betting? It's also a case in Project Home, which is providing basic drug addiction care services, which are directly responsible for the administration, and its workers are allowed to charge under the collective agreement. Another example of how it is not placed on the market for social responsibility, public procurement or on the part of companies. As far as fiscal liability is concerned, it should be taken seriously not to hire companies that have transactions in tax havens. On diversity, the International Employers' Organization itself points out that discrimination, based on factors such as gender, race or disability, prevents companies from having the people they need in order to be competitive and adapt to market demands. That is to say, even from an entrepreneurial point of view, it is a handicap for competitiveness, however, this discrimination continues to exist for various reasons. We mentioned gender discrimination, but, speaking of disability, yesterday was International Day. Galicia has the lowest rate of activity among people with disabilities. There's no joint wager here to encourage the actual recruitment of these people. Language promotion, totally agreed, but it's only then that the board doesn't do, nor does CRTVG either, because the Welsh doubling sector has the pull that it has had, or does not include the development of audiovisual, is cutting absolutely in culture and everything that has to do with linguistic normalization. So, on the one hand, there are the theoretical commitments in Parliament, and on the other hand, the total absence of social clauses in public procurement. So, in Galicia, service concessionaires do whatever they want. There are examples of dealers in the Cunqueiro Alvaro, in the AVE, in Povisa... For all the above, also for all the groups that have spoken so far, we support the processing of this bill. We will bring what we consider to be better, but with this articulate we believe that it would improve the situation in the autonomous community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u25	Thank you. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u26	Thank you very much, President. I don't know if capitalism is compatible with democracy, what I'm sure is that anticapitalism, Bolivarian communism of "Chávez, I swear, vote for Maduro" and anti-systems are not, in any case, compatible with democracy. [[Applause]] It brings today the Socialist Group a bill for the promotion of social responsibility in Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time we have debated or legislated about the social responsibility of companies. In addition to this legislation that I am now going to talk to you about, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, it is also true that we have adopted motions for resolutions in the debate on the state of Autonomy on some occasion. Specifically, there is a law — since you did not speak and which is not included in the explanatory statement of your bill, as some others do not include, because there is a selection of laws in your explanatory statement — which established the possibility, by the Galician Council, of the inclusion of social clauses in its procurement procedures; it is Law 14/2013 of 26 December, of rationalization of the autonomous public sector. I'm going to read Article 25: "Ecological and socially responsible public deal. 1. In order to promote environmentally sound and socially responsible public procurement, the adjudicating powers of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and the public sector must take into account social and environmental sustainability criteria when designing the technical and administrative specifications of the contract. To the extent possible on the basis of the object of the contract, criteria relating to gender equality will be included. 2. In particular, they shall consider the inclusion of social and environmental criteria as adjudication criteria and as special conditions for the performance of the contract, with their corresponding penalties. In any case, the criteria and conditions included shall be directly related to the object of the contract. 3. Even so, environmental and social criteria may be included as determining parameters of appreciation of the abnormal or disproportionate nature of offers when more than one valuation criterion should be considered for adjudication." And Article 26, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo — which is a very interesting article — is the reservation of contracts to special employment centres and employment integration companies that Mr Bará was talking about. It's nothing new about Moaña. This law is 2013 and already establishes 5% reserve of contracts in the autonomic public sector and for its instrumental entities. You know what happened to this law? It was very curious, because the Left-wing Galician Alternative — which today is the Tide of Podemos and some Members are still in this House — has tabled an amendment to delete this article. And you know what happened? That the Tides of Podemos — the Left-Galga Alternative — voted in favour of this amendment of suppression. The Socialist Party voted in favour of this abolition amendment. And you, the Galician Nationalist Block, voted against that amendment of suppression. I mean, if you could vote against it, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, the Galician Nationalist Bloc voted against this suppression amendment. I regret that the sensitivity to social responsibility and social clauses and this comes to you. But look, we've been in this House for years discussing and approving laws and you're voting against, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo; and the Tides of Candos voting against, gentlemen of the Tides. But the passage of this law did not stand there in the paper, although today the Lord of the Block had a speech... and although they voted against that amendment, today, Mr Bará, you had a rather decimononic and quite interventionist speech. But, well, the BNG in a pure state, it's okay! For I said that, in developing this law and following the 2014 Autonomy State Debate, where a motion for a resolution had been adopted for the autonomous public sector to include new social clauses in public procurement processes, the Board of Directors approved in September 2015 the Guide for a socially responsible public procurement, prepared by technical staff of the Galician Juridical Counsellor and the Galician Administrative Contract Advisory Committee. You know that, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo, because you are in Commission 1st and the Director General of Quality often come to and answer questions on this subject, on recruitment, on recruitment guides and on social clauses in recruitment guides. And you know that model clauses are being included in order to introduce them into the recruitment locks. In particular, in this guide there were those clauses that have already been introduced in several sentences. And in the tendering of contracts for the new Public Transport Plan, these social clauses were also included. They are now pending more, and, as you know, the Director General commented on it in Commission 1a, they were awaiting approval of the State Procurement Act. But this wasn't the only law. See the 2015 Law on Quality Assurance of Public Services and Good Administration, which guarantees quality control and monitoring, which meet quality standards in the recruitment of the service. The inclusion of values and principles: environmental, accessibility, removal of barriers, security, equality, reconciliation of working and personal life. Finally, socially responsible public procurement. And what did you vote for? On the contrary, ladies. The whole opposition voted against! Another law that was passed under the Government of the People's Party was Law 1/2016, of January 18, of transparency and good government. There are also issues of transparency, recruitment issues, issues to protect citizenship from arbitrary hypothetics of the public power and misuse of money and public property. Then we got them to abstain. I was rapporteur of that law and I remember how many amendments we accept to all opposition groups. Some people told me in private that, well, they couldn't vote with the PP, but actually... yes, yes, what happens is that you vote something with the PP must produce urticaria. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But actually that law... you have abstained! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And there also the Transparency Act favours socially responsible public procurement. But before the adoption of these laws — from 2013, from 2015 to 2016 — the Government of the People's Party has done things in this matter. The Government of the People's Party of Galicia has shown its commitment to citizenship, and not in one, but in several laws; and by the way, you voted against. But in addition to the laws, before all these laws, the Galician Union was a pioneer: in 2012 it created a group of Greek business representation in corporate social responsibility to, in collaboration with our large companies, accompany the small and medium-sized ones on this path. In fact, it is one of the pillars on which Agenda 2020 is built for employment. The Galician Union has shown that for the Government social responsibility is key to the competitiveness of businesses and to the creation of quality jobs in the wake of sustainable growth in the short, medium and long term. That's why measures are already being developed for your impulse, and you know them. You know that we have the responsible Generation Programme, with the aim of integrating social responsibility into the training content and promoting, at the same time, a more open and innovative thought, developing a series of activities by different vocational training centres through the setting up of workshops. Or the responsible program, whose objective is to disseminate corporate social responsibility and its values through programs that help small and medium-sized businesses in Greece to be more responsible. Or the Galician Social Responsibility Awards, which are already for the third edition, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. The development of the Bank of Ideas, within the Observatory of Corporate Social Responsibility in Galicia; you can access it and the web to see how it works and how they are working. Aid for obtaining certification of standards or standards of corporate social responsibility, the development of the Equality Plan, conciliation measures. The Greek Government has also made it public that it is working on the design of a Welsh strategy of corporate social responsibility, and we hope it will soon be a reality. As you can see, the German Government did not need a law that had forced it to take the initiative in this matter. You -- and Mr Bará just said it -- bring here a law of compliance of volunteerism because it can't be any other way. Even in Article 3, you define: social responsibility?, voluntary commitments; social responsibility of the company?, voluntary integration by the company; socially responsible undertaking?, that company that adopts voluntary integration into its government of social, labor concerns, etc. In any case, we understand, ladies and gentlemen, that regulating by law something that is voluntary, such as integration into the organization and business activity of social and environmental concerns, is not appropriate. In fact, the state does not have a law in this sense, and only two autonomous communities—Stremadura in 2010 and Valencia in 2018—have it. The reality of Galicia is unique, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, and we already have a long way to walk, so it's not worth making a cut-off. No, ladies. The People's Parliamentary Group will therefore not vote in favour of taking this initiative into consideration. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Author group of the proposal. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado del Río, the truth is that after your exposure, in which you talk about the amount of things that you've done to Junta de Galicia in social responsibility, which I actually have here and I have looked at it, the summary is quite small, quite small. The curious thing is that then they say that, with all they've done, they're going to vote against a bill that aims to collect and improve in a lot the little things that the Galician Union has done in social responsibility. The truth is that a speech is quite... let's go, for self-bomb! —something you know how to do very well—, a lot of publicity and propaganda and a lot of what they do. It's true that they put things, like self-diagnosis, that I love. This is like going to the doctor and telling you: No, self-diagnosis already does it, and then I'll tell you what I have to do with it. Come on, laugh! [[Applause]] Look, we, as I said at the outset, bring a proposal for a law on social responsibility which is really for what is being brought here, to decide whether you want to make a commitment to citizenship, a commitment to social responsibility, which covers four pillars, has been repeated, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: commitment to stable and quality employment, social integration, with the environment minimizing environmental impact and carbon footprint, and with good governance and transparency. So the vote in favour is to agree with these four pillars or to be against, as you are continuously, over and over again. There is, of course, a voluntary part, but this law obliges the Council of Galicia to set itself up as that guiding and supporting vertebrate element for the implementation of plans, programmes or projects, assuming criteria for social, environmental and economic sustainability. So to the Galician Council if you force this bill, but you don't want obligations because you think that with four things that are going to be done -- by the way, prizes every two years and some other -- well, I would say a word that is not very appropriate -- that's what they do with social responsibility. According to BNG's spokesman and En Marea's spokesperson — and I thank him for his favourable vote — both claim that he is better. It's obviously better. It is because we understand that all bills that come in must be improved and should be improved within the Galician Parliament, and improved by the various political groups. [[Applause]] That's why we held a hand to the People's Party, that over and over — even though they don't like it — the knee goes over and over and over again. [[Applause]] There are, of course, issues such as local administration, public universities and so on, which we leave open because we understand that, when the processing of this law begins, if we have to do the negotiations between the two sides to improve, to the extent that they request and that it is possible, this bill; that's why we don't include them and that's why we put them as something voluntary. But I also have to say that we fully agree that private entities also add up, because otherwise we understand it would be a horror. Not only can it be forced and not only public entities must be involved, but private entities must also be added. Because you think what would be if certain social liability clauses were not included or respected in the policies of those companies themselves. So the Socialist Party wants to go slowly, negotiate and advance in this civil responsibility. And, as I told you at the outset, today citizenship is turned into a consumer citizenship, which freely chooses the goods and consumption that it must acquire according to its preferences. And today the social responsibility of certain companies and therefore the social responsibility of the Galician Union is a fundamental factor in electing from citizenship itself. Therefore, it cannot be understood that the Council of Galicia does not adopt this law, this bill, for its processing, for its dialogue, for the improvement of its day-to-day management and also for the improvement of all its public policies. By the way, when we talk about volunteering -- I insist -- volunteering isn't for the Galician Union. The Galician Union would be obliged. Anyway, it's true they've made some timely progress, as I told them at first, but they should have no problem approving this bill. In addition, you yourself speak of the debate of the state of Autonomy, some that have already been approved in 2014 and some that have been approved in 2018. But, look, Mrs. Prado del Río, you're an expert in doing what they do, doing what they do!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u30	...then don't do anything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, I hear perfectly, I have the perfect ear. I don't have any problems at the moment. The problem for you is that they are always based...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u32	...in a government of advertising and propaganda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u34	And at the time of truth they don't approve the things that are really important.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u36	Many acts at the entry of this Parliament but little to approve what it has to do with people's lives. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u37	Thank you. We shall proceed to the vote on the legislative texts. Close the doors, please. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u38	Before the vote begins, we want to greet the students and students of 4th primary in the centre of Vilaverde in Pontevedra. Welcome to Parliament. And his teachers, too. Good morning to all and to all. Yes, sir, there's a greeting. That's the future. We begin by voting on the bill of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego amending Law 6/2017, of December 12, of the ports of Galicia. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, amending Law 6/2017, of December 12 of the ports of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this bill is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u39	We now vote to take account of the Proposal for a Law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia for the promotion of social responsibility in Galicia. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, for the promotion of social responsibility in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this bill is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u40	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with point 2 of the agenda, which corresponds to appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Sea advisor, on his own request, to account for the line of work towards the negotiation of total allowable catches and quotas for 2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u41	The sea councillor, Mrs. Rosa Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. I share today in this House to take account of Galicia's position and proposal on the allocation of TACs and quotas which will take place at the next Council of Fisheries Ministers of the European Union, and also to take account of the work that we have worked on in this community to put our arguments in place before Brussels. Galicia and its fishing sector have a lot to do with this guest. In this debate we will have to combine the need to achieve the most sustainable yield, knowing that only two years are left to do so, as well as to insert the most complex part of the landing obligation. Galicia joins this council with the responsibility to bring with it the representation of autonomous communities within the delegation of the Kingdom of Spain. For this, we are closing a document with the aim of setting up a common demand position where data is being finalized and inserting aspects such as the recent agreement in the NEAF core. That common position must have a fundamental piar, supported in work with the sector for the benefit of our fishing, our shellfish and our aquaculture: co-governance. This co-governance was addressed within the Galego Fisheries Council, and within it we reached a unanimous agreement on the Commission's communication on the situation of the common fisheries policy and the consultation on fishing opportunities for 2019; agreements which were taken by the Consultative Council for Community Affairs in Madrid with the aim of taking account of Spain's position in negotiations with Brussels itself. This communication addresses the basic issues of the common fisheries policy, issues which are relevant to the work we have carried out in order to adapt this application of the common fisheries policy to our circumstances and, in particular, in two aspects: multiannual plans and discards. With regard to multiannual plans, Galicia understands and agrees with the need to have these tools available through the application of ranges or mortality intervals that allow greater flexibility to be offered when fixing TACs. As far as the challenge of current fishing is concerned, the decline in discards is concerned, Galicia has done its duty to account for them and value them. This is both in the potentially affected fleets and in those who can see their work diminished, even if it is scarce. In any case, Galicia has come up with proposals that allow it to continue working on the fleet while it can move forward towards that goal of minimizing and eliminating discards. That was the mandate of the Galician Fisheries Council in its ruling on reform of the common fisheries policy, and so we will defend it. The proposal for a TAC and quotas regulation which the European Commission has made a little less than a month ago has taken up all or part of some of the demands made. As far as regulation and general aspects are concerned, we would have three aspects to focus on: sustainable maximum yield, discards and fisheries management. Within the maximum sustainable yield, and after pointing at our demand for flexibility to reach this level when there may be serious social or economic impact, we have a fundamental aspect that can undergo a substantial change in this area. We're talking about determining TACs in some cases, where feasible, based on the recommendation of the top level of the RMS range as a formula for better raising available quotas. We have as an example the case of Cantabrian fish, where its application could increase the TAC by 21%. As for this, the plan will have to come into force, and this is planned for March, we consider it important to raise the demand for the Council to meet the request for the revision of those TACs which may be improved without affecting the state of biomass, always at those intervals and adapting that higher level of recommendation. In relation to discards, our analysis and proposal focuses on three important points. The first, which follows the Commission's proposal, is to create a common TAC for by-catches and what we generally agree on. In this sense, it must be borne in mind that this Commission proposal is afraid of many Member States, which are responding to the need to apply to them the stability of these TACs for accessory fishing. Therefore, in this respect we do not agree with the kindness applied in the case of TACs attributed to species with recommendation of TAC zero, which are for five species in which we do not have quota, but we see that the amounts granted are extremely important, arguing for this fact the possibility that they become strangulation species. The second point has to do with the demand to eliminate those TACs of species of accessory capture for our fleet and that can become, these yes, into species of strangulation. These nine TACs have in common that there is no fishing effort directed at them, which has significantly reduced the fishing effort on these species, which have a low-considered landing volume, and that the landed quantities are stable and adapted to TACs. In addition, there are precedents for the elimination of TACs based on this risk and according to these criteria, such as berthella or beach in certain areas. In this case, our proposal will be addressed to the abbot, the linguado, the stick fish, the melon and the sole. The third important issue is the allocation of the fishing quota, but addressed to those species for which we have never had fishing opportunities and which do not appear in the Commission's proposal. In the face of the possibility that they end up becoming species of strangulation, we demand a quota accessory of ochavo, or clock, and of eglefin, or donkey, that allows them to work on our ships without having to stop because of their indisposition. With regard to fisheries management and the determination of TACs between areas, from Galicia we want to point out and demand improvements that can lead to progress in the use and development of activity by the sector. The analysis and proposal document ends up in three blocks of aspects related to fisheries management. These are: The first one has to do with the differentiation of management or allocation of fishing potential figures for the same species in different TAC areas. We're talking about the case of the lire and the garden, where we understand that a different management could be done from the northwestern Cantabrian area and assign a higher quota due to the different fishing practice that is done in it with respect to the waters of the rest of the North Atlantic. We understand that this different management can be based on the different orientation of fishing, being in our case for direct human consumption and the small impact of our catches on the general TAC of NEAF, since we represent only 4.2 % of the lire and 3.7 % of the yard. In addition, we have as an example the different proposal put forward for the North Sea on the basis of the fishing area, since, starting from a single ICES report, we see how the North Sea proposes a 37% increase, the Great Sun 28% and the French area 23%. This situation, clearly unexplained and unexplained, brings another unconsumed attempt from the TAC of Rape in waters of Scotland to the North Sea, recasting the request between both areas and in which Galicia would lose in its interests not to mediate the intervention before Spain and Europe. The second aspect to consider has to do with the possible separation or overlap of different TACs of pelagic species, such as the jurel or the mouth. In this sense, we advocate secondary to the unexplained position of ICES by separating the TACs from the width of the south and north of the waters of zone 9, between Fisterra and Gibraltar, maximum when in our area we have less quota and it seems that it is the best state to present. Moreover, we argue again that it is possible to extend to 25% the flexibility of exchange of interest and width between the Cantabria and Fisterra areas to the south, which is now around 5%. The third of the important aspects raises several problems in relation to management, the most important being that of the substantial variation in quotas between annualities. We agree with a proposal that quota reductions or enlargements do not exceed 15%, making a smoother approach to the levels that must be reached, so this is the most assumed point for our fleet. The second case has to do with the necessary clarification of the validity of the EEC Regulation 2.166 of the year 2005 for the recovery of fish and cicada in Cantabrico and Northwest, and which does not apply in the case of the most favourable determination of the TAC but in the limitation of fishing days, although they increase to the year 2019. In addition, we want to pay special attention to track management so that TAC determinations are further segregated to those varieties that are in the worst state, making the general figure unconditional to them. Ladies and gentlemen, all these general aspects have a practical and specific application, which reflects the allocation of quotas within each of the TACs stipulated for each species and according to the areas determined by ICES. With this proposal we have on the table this year, we can say that this is not the worst exit position we've ever found. We might well say, even, that it is one of the most advantageous, although much remains to be negotiated and that we will come up with all our arguments to try to improve the proposal. Of the 36 main TACs that Spain has quota, we have to take into account that for 14 we are proposing an increase; in 10 we would keep the TACs for 2018, and in 10 we propose a discount, among which we count the lire and the jarda, already known but officially unreported. They'd only be missing to know the two proposals corresponding to the width, or the mouth, that go from June to June and not from January to January. In this sense, pending the possible separation of the TAC from the south and taking into account the good results collected in the Cantabrian campaign, it seems that in this species we could have good news. However, it is necessary to clarify the situation of the TAC proposal for the Fisterra wide towards the south. It appears in the texts with a zero figure, which we don't like in any of the States that share the TAC — Spain and Portugal — or Galicia, so we demand that this figure be changed even knowing that it is temporary and that it does not reflect the final result. This year we would have been among the positive points already known to several TACs of traditional importance for Galicia, in addition to other quotas of species of accessory capture that become important in the implementation of the obligation to land. In this sense, we have to know that among these positive points is the 27% rise in the Great Sun and 23% in the waters of France, making this species refer to its good state and can be consolidated as the largest invoicing for Galicia; the increase in rapping quota by 1% in the Cantabrian, and the rise of that species in waters of Scotland -- where we have several British flag vessels dedicated to this fishing -- and the increase in the TAC of the jurelo, both in waters of Fiji to the south, where it rises 69%, as well as in the waters of the Cantabrian, where it grows by 18%. The rapist also sees his figures rise, going from 47% to the Great Sun, going from 35% to 40% for the Cantabria, to 40% for the French waters, and 6% for the Skopjes. They also raise the cicada's quotas, both in Scotland's waters, at 24%, as well as in the waters of Fistra towards the south, at 5%, and in the French waters of the Gulf of Biscay, where the increase reaches 7%. Finally, the tenth-quarter growing TAC is that of the fluctuated in the waters of the Gulf of Biscay, where it would have an addition of 5% over the year 2018. For its part, the Commission's proposal points to a possible continuity of TACs which would host the following species: The abbexus, who would see an unchanged proposal for the five areas where Spain has quota, both in the Great Sun and in the Cantabrian and northwest waters. The language in the Cantabria, an important accessory species that sees its stability in the quota we've dragged since 2011. The liba, or merlan, in the Cantabrian, which also has the same number of TACs since 2016, and which is presented as an accessory fishing. The shellfish in Gran Sol and Hatton Bank, whose biomass stability is reflected in this continuity of TAC and which is a secondary fishing for many of the Greek ships. The strips in the Cantabria, which assume a complementary species for our fleet, mainly for the craftsmanship, and which may account for an important income accompanying the hundredth fishing vessel. Galicia also wants to record those negative points that we see in the proposal that can affect our fleet. In this case of negativity, there are 10 proposals for TACs of different impact and impact, but we will try to reverse or diminish. In this supposing are the Cantabrian and Northwest fish, with a 14% reduction request, but which has several possibilities between ICES considerations to improve their TAC number. In this sense, a determination of TAC according to the higher level of the sustainable maximum yield range could bring 21% more fishing opportunities and even improve biomass. In this same assumption, it would also be the alternative to considering a proposal according to the recovery plan, whose vigilance is unclear and which would make it possible to add up to 15% more increase in both biomass and fishing opportunities. Finally, if the TAC were to be maintained, biomass would improve by 45%, an important issue that can be achieved in a broader but always rigorous time frame if we take other alternatives. Another point of inconformity would be rooted in the continuity of the effective closure of the cicada in Cantabrico, since the study campaigns carried out by the Spanish Institute of Oceanography, with the collaboration of the sector, offer more positive figures than those brought up by the ICES for closure, so we demand its reconsideration. Also, speaking of the cock, we have observed with concern the proposal to reduce the TAC of this species to the Great Sun, encrypted in a 31% adjustment, if well in the unit where our fishing fleet generally this species is cut by 3%. We've still seen this proposal with great concern. For the rappel, there is a decrease in quotas in waters of the Great Sun by 1%, and also in waters of France by 6%. But ICES reports seem to grant a better state of stock, so we hope that the Commission will reconsider this proposal and even improve it. In this same situation, there is also the Great Sun's TAC, where the proposed figure is adjusted by 1%. However, we expect that state to reflect ICES reports to lead to continuity, and even a possible rise in the quota. Consideration of the part deserves the proposal to lower the fish in waters west of Hatton Bank, since a cut of 20% does not seem to coincide with the recommendations of the ICES, which calls for a closure throughout the northern area. Against all criteria, and yet there is a reduction of effort on our part in those waters and not consuming the TAC, this cut contrasts with the continuity of those existing in the North Sea into Danish waters, where the TAC is overcome. We hope that this discrepancy and apparent inconsistencies can be explained and corrected, because if it does not have a high economic impact, it can be a case of kind of strangulation. As I said, ladies and gentlemen, we are working to consolidate the figures of each of these TACs that grow to reverse or diminish the download in other cases. For this purpose, we are reviewing species by species, TAC by TAC, and analyzing several sources of information to verify and conform our arguments. We are evaluating the ICES reports to be realistic in requests and not going beyond the sustainable, we are evaluating the landings of each species and of each fleet to see the level of involvement of each download, we are evaluating the comments of other countries in the working groups of the European Union to seek allies, we are analyzing the trend of TACs in other years to see their evolution and we are assessing the importance of the economic impact of each species to center demands and establish a prevalence in negotiation. Chapter separate deserves the TACs assigned to the lire and the yard, and whose determination is made in the bosom of NEAF, this entity that unites all the coastal countries of the northwest Atlantic. And we have to say that in this sense the agreements reached over the past few weeks seem to set an adjustment of 20% on both species, although this proposal has not yet been officially communicated. In this respect it is true that the ICES report for the yard did not call for good forecasts, but the opinion of the Cantabrian sector does not seem to agree with this vision of the ICES, so we demand that, since there is no differentiated report — that should be — if you can make a differentiated allocation. In this very case, it would be the lire. And we would like to reiterate here that these bad scientific prospects should not be attributed to Spain, because its volume of fishing vessels, as I told you at first, is neither substantial nor decisive in the state of stocks that cause this fall in TACs. That is why we also want to ask for an explanation and correction in those deductions which the Commission intends to carry out in some TACs and which would require a correction between catches and landings, although the figures are not homogeneous between areas despite having very similar patterns of exploitation. This case is particularly sensitive in the case of fish, rapist and rapist, since a deduction is assigned in the chaos of France's waters and Cantabrian and Northwest calator that does not replicate and reproduce in the case of other waters of the north, such as zones 4, 6 and 7. In addition, this proposal for a regulation contains a list of measures which affect only two species which today are not subject to TAC and quotas but which are limited to their fishing operation by the regulations which collect this document. I am talking about the case of anguy, in which the Commission intends to extend the capture of the angle to three consecutive months, to be available between September and January; a question which seems consistent, since before the juveniles of this species were not protected, and whether the adult copies. The other case in this respect would be that of looting, where we should be careful that the important restrictions that are being imposed on northern waters do not extend to those of Cantabrian and Northwest, where our capture is highly selective and sustainable. In addition, this attention must be redoubled, since the multiannual plan for western waters includes this species among those managed, which could well be the prelude to the introduction of a TAC, which has been denounced by Spain and other Member States and denied by the Commission. In addition, and not yet included in this proposal, we must not lose sight of the Sardinian situation, whose adjustments through the joint plan between Spain and Portugal have been approved by the Commission. In this sense, we hope that they will be effective in changing the descending line of the species and dissipating the possibilities for the imposition of a TAC by Europe, which would, surely, be more stringent. All of this contains our analysis and our demand, all of this will be communicated to the Ministry so that, in a coordinated way and by bringing up all our arguments, we can jointly reverse these situations that I have just pointed out. The goal is only to achieve the best situation for our fleet in a year that can be a key to your future. Because, ladies and gentlemen, speaking of a key year, we must not forget that Brexit is planning this deal. And at this time of extension, the exit agreement will have to negotiate and make a fisheries agreement with the United Kingdom that maintains the status quo as regards reciprocal access to water and markets. I'm done. And I do so by asking this Parliament to be consistent with these requests, which are not our 100 percent, but are part of the demands of our fisheries sector. There's a lot to do on the inside of the state, too, but I know that at this first step we can tell ourselves and the sector with its sounding voice at this common request. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u43	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the parliamentary groups, you have the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the BNG to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u44	Good morning. Good morning, Counsellor, the truth is that it is all a novelty that you come here before this Parliament to ask for agreement and consensus. Because the usual thing is to see that scenario every year, that same script, those very protagonists of the month of December, in which in the European Union we are accustomed to these theoretical Marathon talks until the last hours of the night, in which, first, there are some draconian proposals by the European Union, which after these negotiations can be reduced and, where a hundred would be cut, then we managed to remain in seventy or fifty. And finally, the clippings aren't fifty, they're thirty, they're forty, and we've managed to make it look like a success, which is a cut on the cut. So there's this scenario, year after year, of exhausting negotiations up to high hours in the morning, which offers as a spectacle what is a cut after our sea sector cut. This year you change the script a little bit, and instead of offering us media coverage through the media, you come here to the previous session to bring us a consensus that you have already closed. It brings a consensus from the Galician Fisheries Council that you have already moved to Madrid, and it comes here to Parliament to tell us that it is waiting... exactly what? Because if we in this Parliament decide we're not good enough, you already have an agreement. So, come and move us a deal, won't you? I say this to get us a little bit into what is the debate we have here today. And I want to start by making a little bit of memory, because sometimes I have the feeling that you might think we're out of our mind. And we have memory on the BNG. At least, we have memory and we know what our fleet represented and we know what it represents today and why. Moreover, we know why: by decisions that were made not by chance, not by Biblical curses. And Galicia is the most relative country losing weight throughout the European Union in fishing, as a result of the political decisions that have been made; above all, that others have been taken by us. And the European Union, since the entry of the Spanish State, has subjected Galicia to lionish, unjust and totally discriminatory conditions. And the Welsh fleet is subject to three criteria established by the European Union: first, the theoretical protection of resources — the Welsh fleet of twelve miles, for example, Ireland — has been expelled; historical rights — this is the criterion for applying the data of the last six years, so the Spanish State has handed over the Welsh fleet, and therefore countries that did not fish in certain areas have rights, such as France, Germany, Denmark or Belgium — and the principle of relative stability, which has made it possible to distribute arbitrary quotas and which had nothing to do with reality. They are prejudiced criteria for the interests of Galicia, never revised and, on the contrary, consolidated in the common fisheries policy 2014-2020, which are those that are in force and are why every year — including this one — these total allowable catches are negotiated, which is what we are now. And I'm also going to make you a little more history. The Spanish State — and therefore Galicia — lacks a quota according to the size of its fleet. And, according to that, by the relative stability criterion, for which these catches are distributed, for example, the Spanish State has 9,6 % of the shares of the Great Sun, despite having 22.6 % of the fleet — 22,6 % of the fleet and 9.6 % of the quota. For example, France, which has one third of the quota, has 9.6 % of the fleet. I'm saying that so we know what context we're moving in. For example, Belgium has 9,6 % of fleet fishing capacity and 1,6 % of Great Sun fishing capacity. Denmark has 5,4 % of the rights and 4,1 % of the fleet. We're gonna sit down, aren't we? I mean, we have a lot of fleets and very little fishing rights. The model of TACs and quotas has proved to be a demolition for the maintenance of activity and employment in Galicia. And the Galician Fisheries Council in that report — since you have read here some things, others have not read them — for example, says: "The Galician fleet has been reduced by 20% between 2004 and 2014, with a substantial decrease in fleets such as the long-lived and drag in waters of the North-West Atlantic — or 50%—". That report you moved says things like this: "The longline has been reduced and dragged into waters of the northwestern Atlantic by 50%. The bottom drag in the Cantabrian and Northwest locker, 50%. Minor arts lost 939 units, or 20%". And I add: Galicia in these ten years has lost about a third of the Great Sun's fisheries due to quota deficit or bannerling in other countries, because in those countries there are quotas, for this unfair distribution, that in Galicia there is no. In this period — not in this period but in the ten years in which you are a counselor — Galicia has lost 3,769 people affiliated with the fisheries and aquaculture regime, as a result of the application of these unacceptable quotas in economic and social terms. Because that application of these TACs, then converted into quotas, is inescapable in social and economic terms, Counsellor. You wear it as you like, but for Galicia they're demolition. And that's why the first question I ask you is whether the Commission's proposal on fishing opportunities for this 2019 corrects or compensates for the reduction in capacity and fishing effort that it made the Welsh fleet by adjusting to those plans imposed by the economic power and doing the duties for all these years as a result of this brutal reduction; and that this situation will be made out and reverted instead of further adjusting and accepting a context in which the reduction of TACs continues to demand and, therefore, the reduction of fishing capacity for our country. Because, of course, in the BNG we have a model where the principle of relative stability continues to prevail. It is divided according to the interests of States, the interests of that economic power, and not by the reality of fishing and coastal communities. And a good example is that industrial fisheries are prioritized, leading to the north most of the TACs. In this division, in this proposal for allocation, industrial fishing continues to lead to most of that capacity, while artisanal fishing remains unable to fish. It's a model that leaves the fishing communities without fundamental rights, Counselor. In the numbers that you here have explained the vast majority of the quota remains for the northern communities, for industrial fishing, when artisanal fishing continues with a ridiculous part. The common fisheries policy, the liberal model they never question, gives a few hands—the shipowners—the fishing rights, the Member States those ITQs, or the individual transferable quotas. And I don't see that in the exhibition that you did here today, I had questioned this division, which had questioned distinguishing artisanal fishing from industrial fishing, or the utility — human consumption or flour consumption. And we think very well of this question that they want to achieve the most sustainable yields or establish multi-annual plans. But to us, of course, it would seem much better if they were to adapt to our reality and to take stock of what exists or a treatment for areas. We are very concerned, Counsellor, that in these divisions there is clearly - it is very illustrative, of course - the lack of targets in the proposals for total catchables. It is clear that political weight is what determines how it divides. We see the political weight — political pressure — and not the criteria for the stock. Because if you don't, explain to me how, for example, in the jury...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u46	...in zone 8aC last year there was a 21% increase, and in zone 9a, a 24% decrease. And then there's a 69% increase. I mean, there are a few shuttles that can't be explained on the basis of how the resource is, but only on the basis of the political weight and the pressure that is made, uniquely and exclusively.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u48	Finished, President. It is clear that it is the political weight, the political pressure, which sets the criteria. And, of course, you and your government don't have that political weight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u50	We're talking about the fish case, with a fundamental multi-annual plan for the flying fleet, the drag, the minor arts, the cicada case...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u51	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u52	...which is scandalous — ended, President. With which, Counsellor, we'd like you to explain why these people go and why you and your government aren't able to have political weight...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u53	Thank you very much. You've got another replica shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u54	...to ensure that the Welsh artisanal fishing has a minimum of criteria...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Then he has another shift in which he can also carry on with his reasoning. We now turn to the spokesperson for the Socialists' Parliamentary Group. Have the floor to Mrs. Toja Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u56	Thank you, President. Good day again. Good morning, Counselor. We're going to give you some more argument that, if you have the right, you can use it in the coming negotiations, an argument regarding that balance between fishing capacity and fishing opportunities. We understand that Galicia has already made an important effort to achieve that balance. In fact, according to data from EPA to Galicia, between 2009 and the last year around 9,600 people were lost. That's 4 out of 10. In a single year, between the first quarter of 2017 and the first quarter of 2018, 4,400 people. So, in absolute terms, 4,400 people don't know if it's much or little, but it's 1 out of every 5. If we pick up the membership data — so that soon we don't say we use the data as we think it is — in 2009 there were 24,630 affiliates, and in 2017, 21,200. At the rate of growth in 2018, taking the best value in 2018, at that rate of growth, it would take more than ten years to recover the levels of affiliated people. We took ten years to recover the 24,600 people we had in 2009, which is quite hopeless. As far as relief is concerned, we've talked many times. We have full schools, but there are a lot of people still working on the ground, so there are arguments that involve making this profession more attractive. One argument that should not be given to you is that Galicia leaves 6 euros out of every 10 in the budgets. Don't give it to them because it won't help us to get better chances. Neither do you tell them the management they're pending to do in security matters, when in the last fishing commission, once again, we're taking back the cavalry of the boats, or since 2015 we've got the Unaccompanied Bats Signaling Plan, which is 3,300 artifacts in the rivers, at least without signaling. So, more arguments: Galicia has put forth a lot of effort to achieve that balance. But it is also true that Galicia can do more — and there we go back to the budgets, with 6 euros per 10 in a box. So there are not few of the challenges we have ahead, but it must be made clear that fishing must be present and have a future. And that must be our goal, a goal that must be common: to achieve a competitive sector but, at the same time, with sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. The required level must be maximum and do not apply to pending subjects such as marketing. They're not worth these pending subjects, the level of exigencies must be maximum to get as much income as possible for these people who are engaged in the sea, which means a huge effort. [[Murmurs.]] Sorry, President, there's a lot of noise here. It's hard to concentrate like that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u57	Speak down, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u58	Thank you. On fundamental issues, on the one hand, we have an obligation to disembark. You talked about her, too. And there's nothing left, less than a month left, for it to come into force and that flexibility is needed. Flexibility is essential, and above all, the importance of being able to count from the first day on solutions adapted to each case. That should be the most relevant and fundamental aspect, and where we understand that here, in this case, the sector's approach is fundamental, to listen to the sector more than ever to provide precisely those solutions adapted to each specific case and to ensure that the ban on discards and the obligation on landing is made so that it has the least possible impact on the operation of fleets. On the one hand, there is the risk that the fleets — as you know — will be tied up, and on the other hand, the problem of space on ships, which is a problem of operationality. If all the species are to be brought to the earth, the vessels — especially the Galicians — are small and not possible, there is no space. The incidence is great in Galicia because we have mixed fisheries, and in these, as you know, along with the main species, there are others that may have zero quotas; or there may be, for example, a natural increase of one or more species that makes them not have enough quotas in that case, so there is a risk of getting tied up. Therefore, discards, flexibility and solutions adapted to each specific case. And who knows these solutions best in specific cases is the people who work at sea. More than ever, therefore, it is essential to listen to the sector. The Socialist Group tells us that since the Ministry they have argued at all times that the application of the ban on discards and the obligation to land is made so that it has the least possible impact on the operation of fleets, both with the State Bureau of Descartes and with the European Commission and with the rest of the Member States, in order to be able to count from the first day on those solutions, as we say, adapted to each case, especially where Spain has little or no quota. The second key question that we understand, in particular with regard to allocations and fishing opportunities, is that we are trying to achieve the best possible outcome, of course, that is what really interests the sector and, in any case, that the final result allows balanced management between resources and social criteria, between social criteria and environmental criteria. And then, from the Socialist Group, we always defend that, in that sense, the fisherman, the person who works at sea, must also be regarded as a resource, a balance. The greatest possible price for Galicia, therefore. We understand — although you already said it — that this was a good time, that it is a time to be able to demand more. We understand it that way too. In accordance with the Communication from the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council of June 2018 on the current situation of the common fisheries policy and the consultation on fishing opportunities for 2019, there are three key points which can also help us with greater arguments to achieve greater possibilities. On the one hand, in all populations, on the average, operating levels are close to the maximum sustainable yield. Second, since 2013, reproductive biomass has been increasing in the ICES area. From 2003 to 2016 its average has increased by almost 39%, while the proportion of populations that do not reach biological limits has decreased by 65% to about 30% in 2016, with which we understand that these are favorable data that can lead to greater fishing opportunities. And another aspect mentioned in this report is the improvement in the balance between fishing capacity and fishing opportunities. We understand that Galicia has already contributed to that balance as close as it had to. The effort is already made. It's beginning to be a time for them to start arriving in other countries. How can we achieve these goals? Today you come here and we don't know if it'll be too late so we can get closer, if we're in time. But how can we achieve those goals? The Commission invites the Member States and interested parties to begin their work soon in accordance with the ICES statement and not to expect the Commission's proposals, but rather to anticipate them. Since these issues are based on scientific dictates, from our group we always defend the importance of research to be able to anticipate, to be able to counter-argument. And in that sense there is recently this news — which is nothing, from the beginning of December — that says that the countries of the South are asking biologists to review their accounts, because there is a yard. Of course, we understand that it is easier to support the arguments when there are scientific supports behind them, and not just those of the Commission, because we in Galicia have very good researchers to provide studies, to make agreements with universities so that studies are done to prove that there is indeed that Jarda that tells the sailors, and that goes with scientific support. So in this first sign there are the fundamental issues as to which it already rains on wet, because Galicia has already made a huge effort adapting its ability to fishing opportunities at a rate of 1,000 people occupied per year, which is a great effort. We have to do the attractive thing to keep people in union with the sector, and for that, in particular, we have to run the budgets. They can't keep 6 out of 10 euros in a drawer. But it is also necessary to achieve greater fishing opportunities in view of the sustainable maximum yield situation, and to anticipate scientific dictates and approaches, as the Commission itself provides.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u60	Yes. And finally, it is essential to have solutions adapted to each specific case with regard to the disposal situation and the demand for flexibility. It's more important and fundamental than ever before. And in this first part, nothing more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u62	Thank you, President. Good morning. Welcome, Counselor. The first consideration we have to do is that, in fact, we are not sold as a real debate this audience, as a real quest for consensus, when it is actually presenting a document that is already accessible, which is already presented, and of what we have to say little because we don't think it will be modified after this appearance. We understand that this debate, which perhaps — it is true — is prior to other years, should also be preceded by the presentation of that document that we have already known. Then, as always we talk about this sector, we insist again that listening to the sector and reproducing again and again that hearing the sector cannot be an empty appeal, an empty comment. We believe that the policies that are being pursued in this sector show that we are not listening to the sector, or at least that we are not listening to the whole sector. We think this is obviously one of the points where we have to do the most finer things. Then, in general terms, we do not agree with the account I put here today. They always accuse us of selling a very negative reality for the country, but the reality is that today, compared to other years, we have fewer ships, we have fewer jobs, and people who keep working in the sector are facing, as you know, enormous difficulties. That's the real reality, and that's what we need to put on the table. And then we don't agree at all with the claim that this new negotiation of TACs and quotas leaves us a good exit position. We believe that at all it leaves us a good position of exit. We believe that this time again, because it is not an isolated issue, it has been going on for many years, this division to the only ones that benefit is to the large industrial fleets. They're the ones that are favored. But forget the situation in which most of our country's fleet will remain, the artisanal fishing. There's a headline, which was recently released in a newspaper in our country, which we believe perfectly summarizes the situation we're going to face if this distribution comes into effect, which is the following: "Almost 5,000 ships will go wrong if the European Union doesn't allow more fish and fish." We believe that this is a negative situation to which the sector must face, which, as I say, is not a new situation, is a situation that has been repeated year after year, which is not an exception, that the proposal is always harmful to our country, to Galicia, and which again implies a new step in that model of conversion of the sector that is in dispute and of what we have often debated in this same Parliament. It's worrying to us because we're talking about reductions of 40% of the fishing potential of garden, of 7% of the rap, of 14% of the fish, of 26% of the cock and of 25% for the beetle. And this, in fact, is a new attack. That's why we can't agree with that account that we're in a good position to get out. We believe this would be a new strangulation for our fleet, which has been attacked for many years. Because, as I said, if this proposal is confirmed, nearly 5,000 ships are going to be in trouble. And as he also said, it's neither an exception nor a particularly negative year. It's a trend, a trend that adds, for example, to the cuts that have already suffered last year, with a distribution, by the way, that have sold as very positive; but the distribution in the previous negotiation assumed that 12% of fishing opportunities for the fish had been reduced, 24% of thejury and 20% of the yard. That's the reality, you can't say it's a good deal of distribution, because, as someone mentioned, too -- I think it was the spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block -- if you start from a much larger cut and eventually you're left in a smaller cut, that's not a good result. The good result would be that no such relative variation was cut at all. We believe that, as I said, this is not an isolated issue, it is part of the European Union's full policy, which is endorsed by both the self-governments and the governments that have been in central government for many years, and which sets out what they intend to achieve. It is in dispute to convert the fishing sector. There are two models in confrontation, there's a struggle to see who really occupies maritime space. And from a certain space, from the high spheres, they've decided not to be our fishermen, but rather to trade space and large intensive fish farming. That is why we believe that this new proposal is a European Union dispassionate for the small fleet, for the small-scale fleet, and therefore for the vast majority of our country's fleet. That's the reality, and that's where we think they should press from the Sea Council. In this sense, we have to say that, in fact, we are quite concerned about the information that is emerging concerning negotiations with the European Union on the part of, for example, the minister, who talks a lot about the situation of bluefin tuna but we believe that it is not so much emphasized in other species that have greater interest in our fleet, especially in minor arts. And we believe it's also important that we press for our sector to be present in these negotiations. We also believe that this adds to other problems added. We've been warning for a long time that we think it's worrying about the transfer of quotas, the individual transferable quotas. We believe that all you do is consolidate a sales model where you can only fish who can afford to pay. We believe that there are other alternatives, and that if we talk about them and repeat that there is a need for progress in joint management, led by the Government but cohesive with the sector, because we put ourselves in that model and not in other models, because it will be the only way to achieve fairer and more solidarity distributions, and it will be the only way to truly listen to the sector. Many times it's said in every speech that defends the fishing that the most social value can achieve. The common fisheries policy itself also shows this. But then the policies and distributions of quotas go on the other side quite different, which does not correspond at all to what is announced. And this time this new distribution to the only one that prejudices is precisely the fishery that has less environmental impact, which generates more added value and which is fundamental to work in our country. Then, when we talk about this, we also believe that it is essential that we take into account the next step and the subsequent debate about the distribution within the Spanish State itself. We believe that we must avoid what has happened historically in our country. Galicia is always damaged, always, and we believe that we must also move forward these debates. We'd also like to have talked about this. We have said this on many occasions: we believe that quotas cannot be allowed for historical criteria, which are giving tremendously unfair situations. It can't be that in the same country they carry 48% of the fleet fleets with many fewer boats than others, as is happening in this case between Galicia, for example, and the Basque Country. So, too, when we talk about these negotiations, it is important that we also take into account this later debate and also press ourselves not to be discriminated against again, as has been so many years. After that we wanted to take advantage of this audience to ask you two questions, two questions relating to the garden, for some of the news that was coming out. We'd like to make it clear to us that you have the advice on Rafael Centenera's announcement in the days of Celeiro, in which you talked about a different quota for the minor arts as regards the yard as either directed fishing or accessory. I don't know if you know. We'd like to know what the difference is and how it's going to be managed. And, on the other hand, we would also like to know where scientific reports are being prepared on the subject of the garden. He knows that a long time ago, about a year ago, that the Greek fishermen, but also Portuguese and Asturian, certify the good presence of the species and hence a supposed improvement in stocks. We think it's important that there are reports certifying this new situation, and then the question is if you've done something in this direction. But returning to the debate that we have brought today — and I am now finishing — we believe it is important to understand that this is a recurring debate, that we have been having this similar debate for many years, but, unfortunately, every year we cannot talk about improvements but on the contrary, that the perspective and trend is totally negative, that the only thing that should be demanded is a fair and transparent distribution of TACs and quotas and, as I say, a distribution that takes account of the socio-economic weight of a key activity in our local economies. We have to talk about how our specific fleet will affect, not in general terms. For us these current distributions are tremendously unfair; as I said, they consolidate a model that only benefits large industrial fleets and clearly compromises our sector. We believe that either the course is completely changed — or if you make the determination to change — or the sector is going to get worse. There's the data: less work, very difficult situations for people who keep working in the sector, less boats, and we fish much less than was fished in 2009. That's why we understand that today's request is fully assumed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u64	And also -- to finish -- one last comment. As we have defended on many occasions, we believe that Europe must deal differently with artisanal fishing, leaving it out of TACs and quotas. We believe this is an assumptionable request and we have been very insistent on it. We're talking about the model with less environmental impact in our country. If it is really said to support selective and sustainable fishing, then public policies must be consistent. I'm done, but, as I say, I think the reality they sell doesn't correspond to the reality that the sector lives. And if they really want to face him, they must really listen to everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor, Mrs Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u66	Thank you, President. Good morning again, Counselor, and our greatest thanks for coming today to talk about this very important subject and report on your work towards the forthcoming Council of Ministers. They are now talking about a recurring debate. It's not a recurring debate, it's an interesting debate, it's a constructive debate. You come here to find out and report what the fishing sector in Brussels has so much to do in the next Council of Ministers. You have also highlighted something very important, which is co-governance. I also heard from another deputy this morning that word, and I think you're a person, a counselor, who always works in the hands of the sector. And we know, in addition, that you always consult at the Galego Fisheries Council; therefore, here you have no need to blame him. I think there's concern in this audience, there's involvement, there's responsibility, there's commitment, there's realism. There's realism, because, of course, we often also have to know about the context in which we are. As we spoke before the change of law, sometimes contexts are a little confused here. And there's always been that commitment, there's always been that concern. Furthermore, on the TAC system, which is a system of what Mrs Prado said at some point — or Mrs Quinteiro — that is not the right one, the right one, you have to know what you vote at every moment and what you decide when you can change things. I think you've always been engaged to the sector, and right now, besides, as I said, you don't have an exit position of the worst we've ever had. I therefore believe that on the part of this Group of Galicia and Mr Feijóo, and on the part of this adviser, there has always been a clear commitment to discuss this subject of fishing, to negotiate and to request in Brussels, through the Central Government — which is the interlocutor — what we play and what needs we have. I'm going to start a little by nudging some things that the voices of the other groups said. Mrs Quinteiro, as I told you, this is not a recurring debate. He says we've been in this recurring debate for a long time. I insist, today comes the advisor to realize this because there is a very interesting, very important council of ministers in Europe, and we have a lot to say. So, I don't know what you see as negative when the councilman comes here to explain to us what's going on, the situation we're in, the situation of quotas that we have now on the table. Besides, he clearly said that, of 36, 14 are of increase; 10 are of maintenance; and in other 10, counting the lire and the yard, which we already knew, there could be some download. So it's not such a negative situation. Because you start here a little by thanking the presence and talking about the fisheries sector positively, but then they always end up with their speech so destructive. I believe that, in addition, we have to assume a little more of Galicia, the Greek fishing sector — I always say it when I go out here — because in Brussels we are an example to follow. And if it's true, besides, it doesn't always take into account how to fish in Galicia. Sustainable fishing is the fishing that is being done here on the other day we also discussed it on the subject of sharks in the 8th Commission. So don't you say Galicia is always damaged, because it's not true either. I mean, it's kind of like the story of the wolf. It's always said that everything is so negative, so negative, that when there's any threat or any specific problem, you don't seem to have credibility either. Therefore, the counselor was very clear. He said exactly what are the possibilities we have. In addition, he spoke and made a fairly broad narrative of all species, the situation and realities of each area, of each border and of each species. Mrs. Toja, I notice today that you bring a much more limited tone than when the People's Party was in central government, when you were a little more vehemently. It looks good to me. And I ask you if that argument you showed here today also told the minister, because the advisor is in constant contact with the Minister of Fisheries to bring out the highest yield and the best possibilities for the Galician fisheries sector. Because I believe that, when the Socialist Party was ruling, at the time of Mr. Zapatero, there was not the best benefits for the Welsh fishing. It wasn't even the best moments when I was running the Bipartite. So now we're in this situation. I'd like to know if it's okay with you or you don't think it's wrong with the proposal, if it's okay with that document, and know what you're doing. Because the contributions you put on the table are the factors that I also clearly exposed the advisor that should be taken into account when negotiating. Mrs. Prado, I was optimistic, because you began by thanking the advisor who had come to explain to us at last, recognizing the presence of the advisor to inform and account. But, as I said before, it didn't last long and it's already started with that catastrophe painting that situation that in Galicia nothing goes well in the fishing sector, and that you have the key to solving everything in the fishing sector. That's not true, it's not true. You say the quota system has been, or is, demolition. Well, the quota system is the system we have. And I'm going to tell you that, when there was the possibility, when Galicia defended a change in fishing management model within the unanimous dictatorship of the Galician Fisheries Council, the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block Galego did not support it. I'm going to read exactly what we ask, so you know if it's something that we invent or we don't invent: "As for the fisheries management system, the substitution of TACs and quotas is called for by a fisheries-based control system, which would benefit the proposal to eliminate discards, better control and better application of transferable fishing concessions." This is the text that you have not supported, and that we, the People's Party and the Counsellor, at that time, are presenting to the Galician Fisheries Council for reform of the common fisheries policy. We talked about this the other day. Europe is something you can't say about, whether it wants good or bad, whether you want to change this policy at the moment or not. We need to know what context we are in. Europe too, as I said the other day, has brought a lot of positive things to Galicia, and now the possibilities we have are to negotiate, defend our sustainable fishing model and try to get all the pressure, or all the threats, to be an opportunity and affect us as little as possible. That's what the counselor works hard at, because it's seen in this audience. He said exactly the agencies he's working with and all the reports he's analyzing. You were talking about research and the importance of all those reports in Galicia, and of course you're taking them into account, of course. Mrs Prado — and this is already a bit of a joke— said that political weight also decides the TACs; that is, the amount of sardine we have at sea is decided by political weight, I mean, if you win one or the other, there will be more or less swearing. Because you mentioned here that political weight increases or decreases the capacities we can have of fishing by the amount that there may be at certain times. And it's not like that. You know that the case of sardine, the case of the jury, the case of the garden, are concrete, and decisions must be made by the current situation in which they can be found. Mrs. Prado, of course! If it were up to you, I'd be the sector completely away from all reality, stopped and collecting subsidies. Yes, Mrs. Prado! which is what you did during the Bipartite. What we have to try is that the system is as profitable, productive and sustainable as possible with the situations and the general context that we have. They say there are fewer quotas now. It's just that this is totally false, totally false. They say there are now fewer quotas, and since 2009 the global quotas for Spain in the Cantabrian waters, northwest, Gran Sol and France have grown by 80%. This is about an increase of 117,000 tons. Having 70% of the quotas, Galicia would correspond to around 82,000 tons more in 2018 than in 2009. And applying the average price of fresh fish and seafood in Galicia during 2016, they would give us an average value gain of 212.7 million euros. You want to know what happened when PSOE was running? We lost 194.266 tons, another 44%. The total in value: 460.7 million euros, 44% less. We're not out of our mind, Mrs. Prado, we're not out of our mind; the Greeks, fortunately, are not, and the fishing sector is not, either. Besides, look, I say that he speaks with a certain contempt of the nights that people from the sea spend, the advisor and the Council workers in Brussels trying to achieve as much performance as possible for our fishing. You speak, I don't know, with some contempt, that I noticed in your tone, Mrs. Prado. Well that's work, that's trading, that's being there and having presence. You know that, who is not, you don't expect and you don't say anything. So when you have to be, you have to be. And this counselor listens to everything, listens to requests that can be simpler and requests that can be more complicated. But we have to work for the sector and we have to have a model that, I insist, improves both the economic value and the amount of fishing. So the fishing won't go any less, again I have to tell you that the fishing won't go any less. And it's data that the counselor himself said. You've asked him some specific questions that she'll probably answer, because she knows him perfectly well. And to tell us what they're doing today, who they're working with, and what the scenario of what we're starting for that council of ministers is important, it's important to know about it here in the Greek Parliament, by the board, and it's also important that we take it very closely into account by the Government of Spain so that Galicia doesn't get hurt in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. Replica from the sea councillor. Mrs. Quintana Carballo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm almost going to start where Mrs. Egerique was ending. I was really surprised by Mrs Prado's intervention. I come here saying that I bring the document, the proposal we have made from the Council and that we have reached a unanimous agreement with the Galego Fisheries Council, where all representatives of the sector are represented absolutely — I do not meet with two or three, the Galego Fisheries Council does not signal it, I elect the sector itself, all its representatives are there. And with this uniting motto of the Galego Fisheries Council we have drawn up a proposal that I will now bring to the rest of the councillors of the autonomous communities that have sea — because I am in that period of representation of all of them — and to the Ministry itself. I don't know what I'm accused of. Maybe you should come here before the Galician Fisheries Council? But, then, do I have to listen to the sector or do I not have to listen to the sector? The document submitted by the Commission is a public document. Any citizen of the European Union can make contributions. There's still the first time you have to report to me so that I can somehow get you to the Galician Fisheries Council and thus bring together the opposition groups' proposal and the Government's proposal, and that a joint document is issued from throughout Galicia. The truth is that I'm not able to understand it, but I, however, still come here and keep giving face to the data I have to give. Also, Mrs. Prado, as Mrs. Egerique said, I think you sometimes confuse what the fishing policy is about making politics with fishing. Brussels, on those long nights of negotiation, is not going to be a match, it's going to be a negotiation. And to negotiate, we have to report, we have to debate, we have to seek support from the rest of the countries. And we must try to find out which species will support the other countries, which species we have to support and how far the measures of each of us can improve the Commission's proposal to the Council of Ministers. Look, here I think that, in a subliminal way or not, if you accused us of having little political weight and getting our fishing fleet to go less every year. And I have to say that I don't think it's political weight, I think it's different ways of doing things. I don't say that I have any more political weight than my predecessor had at the time of the Bipartite, but what I say is that, from the Bipartite era to this day, fishing opportunities have increased by 80%. And that's not attributable to political weight, no; that's the different way to manage our fisheries, that's trying to get the biomass of our resources every day to get better, that's trying to believe with scientific data that our resources are better to be able to then argue with the European Union, and it's taking it along with some measures to control fishing activity that they believe in before the European Union that we are not allowing illegal unreported and unregulated fishing, it's achieving credibility before the European Union and it's getting 80% more fishing opportunities for Galicia. That's not political weight, it's a different way to make things work. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Because, of course, I'm surprised, Mrs. Quinteiro, when you say we're fishing much less than in 2009. The year 2017 was the year of the historic record since there are data and records in the Galician Union. The year 2017 was a historic record both in discharges and invoicing; therefore, I refuse to accept that it is reflected in the minutes of this Parliament which are fishing today less than in 2009. I can't accept it because the data are public and are at the disposal of the entire citizenry! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u69	Silence! Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u70	Mrs. Santos is not today a spokesperson for the En Marea Group to defend the fisheries issues. But if I can tell you, Mrs. Santos, that I don't lie because the data I give are public and it's the data you get from the discharges of the strips at first sale. They're data introduced by the sector itself, which is part of the historical records of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] That's the data you can compare. [[Applause]] Now, if anyone says fishing less and can't believe it, you'll know who's paying attention, who's mind saying that today he's fishing less or who believes statistically that he's fishing more today. I, Mrs. Santos, am not going to enter that debate, I am making a historical reflection since there is data in the Galician Union — and there are the published data. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'll feed you all to fish in degalicia.com and you can daily follow the download and billing data of the different stretches of Galicia since there are historical data. And tell me I have to listen to the whole sector. Of course I do! Today I come here after hearing the whole sector through the plenary session of the Galician Fisheries Council. I am not receiving a commission from the plenary, no, not the plenary session of the Galician Fisheries Council, to which the report drawn up from the Council is provided. And they unanimously approve a statement in which they agree with our proposals and with our arguments to defend their activity before the Council of Ministers in the European Union. I'm told we have fewer boats, fewer jobs, and we defend the industrial fleet, not the craft fleet. Two data: the employment data has just been released today, and the special sea regime loses 954 jobs in Spain and wins in Galicia, since September, 83 jobs. Since 2015 we've had a special sea regime of more than 21,000 affiliates, and we're still winning affiliates. And we'll keep working so you can keep making more boats, as if you're doing them. In the case of the siege we have 12 new ships that are already working or under construction at the yards. And they keep increasing because there's more fishing possibilities than there was when we received the government in 2009. They like it or they don't like it, I'll keep saying it, because that's the reality. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, just one thing: when I arrived at the Government in April 2009 I had a proposal to tear down, between 2009 and 2010, 93 ships — proposed by the Bipartite. Do you know how many fell apart? 30. There's a difference between the 93 you've been thinking about breaking up, because they weren't able to get fishing opportunities in Brussels as they managed, and tearing down 30. And it hurt me to tear those 30, but now -- I tell you -- we're increasing 12 new boats from the fence, and more still there are. I defend the industrial fleet, I defend the craft fleet and I defend the entire fleet, because all that fleet generates economics in Galicia. But when you defend things, you have to know how impact every thing has. Do you know what garden fishing means to the fleet of minor arts? How much does that mean? 0,3 % downloads and 0,5 % billing. But there are other species that do have an impact on the fleet of minor arts, and in these things I have to focus on, and so I'm focusing on. The fleet of minor arts that affects the most in this negotiation process in the European Union is the subject of discards. Because having no fishing opportunities for a species can mean that, for species that we regulate from Galicia, which are made in our waters and which have management from the Autonomous Community itself, they can continue without activity. And that's where we're working to defend the fleet of minor arts, and so we came to do it both with the previous government in Madrid and with this government. And I have to say that, both the former Government and this Government, they are defending the same criteria that we defend: the possibility of flexibleizing discards in the fleet of minor arts to prevent this fleet from going down. And that's how we're gonna get it, I'm convinced. When you tell me that Galicia is always prejudiced in the distribution of history, I have to deny them the biggest. Because, look, with the new distribution of the management of the Cantabrian and northwest national calator, when Galicia was still fishing not 20 percent of the yard, today it is fishing more than 26 percent. Historical distributions depend on the dependence of certain fleets on certain resources. And why, when they talk about that negative discrimination of historical distributions towards the Galician fleet in front of the Basque Country fleet, don't they remind anyone that Galicia has 98% of the Jury's chances in Area 9? What do the Basques say then, what are they the injured? What's our fleet dedicated to? You know that? We have to work to defend those activities in which our fleet has its greatest source of wealth. It's like when we say we have no political weight in the European Union because other countries fish more than we do. Look, Galicia currently accounts for 11% of the European Union's fishing fleet. Do you know how many fishing opportunities we have in these divisions at this time? 15%. We have more than the rest of the countries. They don't try to transfer that negative aspect of our fishing activity to society, because it's very easy to sow a negative aspect of economic activity and then to pretend that people are going to engage in that economic activity. We sold the same speech! Let's say that fishing has a bearing on it, yes, but let's say that fishing has a future too! Mrs. Toja today acknowledged here that our schools are full of people, with 46% more enrolments since 2009 in our schools. There are 1,500 people with high titration to carry the hand of their ships. Now, what do we have to do? Make this activity attractive! How can we do that? Getting better habitability on our ships, giving them better benefits so that people can be comfortable in days when they don't have work on board ships. And for that we must also be able to convince the European Union to let us finance that purchase of new ships, because those money will go to improve living on board, they will go to improve people's lives. They will not go to increase fishing capacity, because fishing capacity is already regulated by all the rules we have in the regulation of the common fisheries policy. And Mrs. Quinteiro was asking me about some statements made by the under-Director in the Celero days as to directed fishing and accessory fishing. Mrs. Quinteiro, this is something you've always been doing. There are some vessels of the fleet of crafts smaller than the three maritime provinces that are engaged in the fishing of the garden in a directed way, i.e., they are going to capture this resource uniquely and exclusively, and the rest of the vessels of the minor arts have in the yard an accessory species, which means that, when they fish other resources, they accidentally show up the yard in that fishing. In order to prevent discards from being able to condition the activity of these fleets which are not engaged in the fishing directed by the garden, what is done in the three provinces is to leave a percentage of what is appropriate for them to manage among all for the fishing accessory and not exhaust all the quota in the directed fishing. So those who go fishing for the garden as the only fishing can have activity but that the activity of these few vessels does not condition the activity of the vast majority of our fleet. That's something that I think makes clear to you about the question that Mr. Sub-Director was commenting on on in the Celero days. Mrs. Toja is always very concerned and thinks that fishing opportunities are linked to budget execution, and she always accuses us of not executing the budget. I won't tell you that I'm 100 percent satisfied with the budget execution, because we haven't reached 100 percent of our execution. Because it's really a complicated budget to execute. It's a budget that works with European funds that have their own regulation. We have to call aid orders and the sector has to access those orders, justify the investment and then pay. But for your tranquillity, what I can tell you is that I think we're doing a little better than when you had the government. Because as far as payment accounting documents are concerned — the OKs, as they call them in budgetary management — we have 51% better execution than in the times of the Bipartite. So what I'm here to bring you here is the effort and work that we've done since the Council, counting on all the scientific arguments and working with the industry to know not only the scientific data but what their perception of the state of the resources, and preparing this poster from Galicia to this proposed negotiation of the European Union and then moving it to the rest of the autonomous communities and also to the ministry itself. What I come here is just to tell you what the outcome of that work is, to figure out what it is and to wait for you, if you have any appreciation to do -- which I suppose you'll be working on this document for two months -- to get there to improve this document. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u71	Thank you very much, Counselor. We started a special round of clarifications. [[Pause.]] Mrs Prado Cores has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u72	I want to begin by saying that it was not a subliminal accusation, it was a direct, clear and diaphany accusation: that lack of political weight makes the sea sector in Galicia much worse, by the performance of the People's Party and its particular, Mrs. Quintana, so of course. I say it without any kind of hot cloth, so of course! I mean, it was nothing subliminal, it's so clear. You say as many times as you want and as high as you want today there's more pounds and more invoicing in species. Because if I said so, without clarifying it, it seems that the sector is better. But what you don't want to clarify is: more pounds than what species? and more billing, the cost of what? You don't want to. When you say that, leave it there, it doesn't say more pounds than that. On horseback? What species? Of course! You don't want to clarify the cost of that, you don't want to clarify it. Just as it doesn't say, in the increase of those quotas that you here so pompously mean, if bass fishing, artisanal fishing, has more fishing capacity. Do you have more quota capacity? Don't! What they don't say is that it's the industrial fishing that has more kilograms and more quota capacity, not bass fishing, handicraft fishing, which is the one that sets the population, which creates incomes and which generates jobs in our towns on our coast. That's what they don't say, that you work exclusively for industrial fishing, for the big capital, not for our sailors, for our artisanal and bass fishing, which is the one that generates employment and fixes population in our villages. That's what they don't say. They give the headline, so above it -- it looks pretty good -- but then they don't go to the little letter. That's the reality! That's the reality! And by the way, as you speak of the Galego Fisheries Council, it would be good if you had to renew it and allow the majority sector of the search to be present, for example, the long-term sector, which were present in that Galego Fisheries Council, because you so much like to talk about it; that you had made the renewal relevant for the majority of these two to be present. And, honourable Member of the People's Party, I started by making — the BNG started — a data relationship in the sector. If you think of that objective data relationship, and that in addition to a very important part of it is contained in that report by the Galician Fisheries Council, it seems catastrophic, if it seems catastrophic to you, because you know what they have to do: get working on changing that data. Because I, if you like, repeat them. It's data from the Galician Fisheries Council, which says things like that the Galician fleet has been reduced by more than 20% between 2004 and 2014, by more than 20%. Because the bottom longline and drag in waters of the north-western Atlantic has been reduced by 50%; the bottom trawl in the Cantabrian and Northwest boiler, 30%; and in smaller arts, 939 units, 20%. That's data from the Galician Fisheries Council, if you think it's catastrophic to say that data here, because I'm sorry, but it's not BNG data, it's data from the Galician Fisheries Council. So, if you think that's catastrophic, what are we going to do with it? You have the Galician fishing sector embedded in the catastrophe, because I'm a catastrophe of that data. Like the TACs, Madam. TACs are the total allowable catch, which are defined according to political criteria. Because it is a political criterion that France, having 10% of the ships, should be assisted by a third of the TACs. That is a political criterion. Because the normal thing would be, if I had 10 percent of the boats, if I had 10 percent of the catches. That would be an objective criterion. But when they don't apply objective criteria, but political ones, they have 10% of the boats and they get 30% of the catches. That's what's called a political criterion! Just as the Spanish State has 9.6 % of the catches when it has 22.6 % of the boats. That's a political criterion in which Galicia is losing. That's what they call politicalism, and it turns out that the Galician Union is politics of the bag, because it has no political weight and makes the Galician fleet lose political weight. In other words, the Welsh fleet loses its extraction capacity, loses people who dedicate themselves to the sea — three thousand peaks — due to lack of political weight and involvement in these negotiations. It's so clear and so hard. And it turns out that the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u74	...assumes the terms of Brussels, of the European Commission, in the allocation of fishing rights. It is false that the European Union uses socio-economic criteria. They put it on paper, but then, at the time of truth, they don't apply that way. That fundamental criterion is never introduced...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u75	Finish, please, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u76	...for distribution, it is divided according to that political weight, and Galicia does not exist in those interests. The Greeks and the Greeks are not present, Mrs. Quintana. The data is there, every year Galicia has less, has less quota and, above all,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u78	...the bass fishing, the artisanal fishing. And he doesn't give me time to talk about what he's planning on doing the way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u79	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u80	...and with that sector you don't even listen to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mrs Toja Suárez has the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u82	Thank you, President. Mrs. Egerique, I'm going to change the tone a little bit. Counsellor, schools are full. A truth that is told in half is not a truth. The schools are full of people, you know, but you also know that a lot of these people end up working on the ground. You know that. So... yeah, I know you already said it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But no, he just said the first part. You said, "Mrs. Toja admitted that schools are full of people..." Yes, and that they end up working on the ground. We spend the money to form them, but then we don't have the people at sea, that's the lack of relief. Counselor, you know this is true. [[Applause]] You have to do the attractive profession and that's your responsibility, make the attractive profession. Because you spoke here as if you weren't the sea councillor. He's ruling, he's the advisor and he has a responsibility, which is to make an attractive profession. He also says we're worried about budget execution. Man, we're not gonna worry! Especially because in this budget execution, which leaves 6 euros out of 10 in the drawer, there are precisely those issues as can be, for example, aid to young entrepreneurs of the sea. That's why we're concerned about the budget execution. There's 6 euros left in a drawer, and you know it. [[Applause]] Then, in relation to public data, here it seems that, when the data gives it to the PP, it's public and official data; and when the data gives it to the opposition, it's data that is a lie. No, we told you about EPA, the survey of active population, as well as membership. And you say we talk about data that's not true. Don't! And EPA says there are 9,600 less busy people in the sea since you rule, 9,600 less people! [[Applause]] He also spoke of affiliations, besides conformism, with satisfaction... 83 people! But you're an accountant. How long would it take to recover the levels we had since you started ruling, how long would it take to recover the levels we had in 2009? It would have taken us 20 years since you started: ten years that lost those people more than ten years that would take us back. In twenty years we would have the same people we had at first, when you started ruling. Man, how to talk about conformism here and say, well, we've increased 83 people! They're few, they make a very, very sad, very poor rhythm. The ports are losing people and you know it. That's right. Another question. As for the escalation of the discharges, let's go back to it. They increase the downloads, but they decrease people, they increase the downloads, but the billing doesn't increase in the same proportion, with which we're charging the people at work, at cost, to be able to do that job, but we're not giving them proportional income. If we don't give him proportional income... the people he lives with, the downloads or the euros transformed from those discharges? I think the people who want to take home are euros. And billing doesn't grow in the same proportion. [[Applause]] That's right, Counselor. So, official data is all, theirs and ours, they're all. I'm committed to the sector. Commitment to the sector, for example, is the PP's commitment that Mr. Mariano Rajoy has left to the sector. The current Ministry of Fisheries is updating aid, aid payments to producer organisations — 2014 and 2015 aid. He's getting up to it with those questions, with the help. It seems like a commitment to us... well, a little more up-to-date. The same agility in management could be... and they're still calling for the 2016 aid. We understand that this is where the commitment to the sector is demonstrated. And there is also a commitment to the sector in aid for temporary stops subsidised under the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. And here Mrs. Egerique said: We don't want a sector collecting subsidies. It's very nice of you, you won't want a sector that's getting subsidies. But if the amounts are insufficient, if the fleet is forced to stop prematurely, they will have to give those people a livelihood, something to live for. Otherwise, what are you going to live on? And you said you didn't want a sector that had paid subsidies. So I'm going to tell you: the European Fund, the FEMP, exists, and it also supports that kind of aid. And there are other autonomous communities that draw lines for those aids. And here are the shipowners who are on the plan to recover the southern fish and the cantabrian cicada in the north-west — and you know, counselor — from the successive reductions suffered by the fish — which goes by a 60% reduction, called for the necessary measures to be articulated for a subsidised temporary stop of the fleet. And today there are no such aids, and we're seeing that for next year it's quite likely that the available amount of fish will be reduced. Well, then we'll have to give support to people or are we going to have people starving? The temporary aid for temporary paralysis is for that, and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund is for that too. Because there are other communities that have done so. We must therefore also respect the people who work at sea. And then one thing: we have to evolve, we have to evolve from being looking at the edge to saying if there's a yard to making a scientific report. We have to take the step, Counselor, we have to take the step between that and the other situation. The sector is also asking for it. Finally, we think Galicia has already made the enormous effort it had to make to achieve the balance between fishing capacity and fishing potential. Galicia has already made a huge sacrifice, we've already talked about the data. It is therefore time for the other countries of the European Union to start contributing to that balance. We said it was a good time, with fishing vessels in a position of maximum sustainable yield. Well, Counselor, bring Galicia as much as possible because we need it. At this rate fishing ceases to exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u84	Thank you, President. We do not agree with this appearance, which we do not agree with is that if we come here to sell what is a debate, that we seek a consensus when we are presenting a document that is already closed, when we have already decided what to do and when we do not intend to hear anything at all, but to present a document that we already knew and that was already public. When you want to consent and debate, it is usually done before and not later. And they insist again, as always, that the reality that draws the opposition does not correspond at all to what happens in the sector, that we live in a parallel reality. Well, it's not the reality that draws any organization, no parliamentary group. It's the reality that they leave the data on their own websites. Data from the Galego Institute of Statistics: Since 2009 we have 400 ships less, since 2009 we have 3,000 workers less in the special sea regime. Why are you talking about the data in general? Talk to us about Galicia, don't talk about the set of Spain. Tell us about Galician data, tell us about the negative trend that is systematically in the regime of sea affiliates in our country, which is what we really care about. And the trend is negative. As much as you say no, the data is there and we're not making them up. Then, look, data taken right now from Galicia's fishing website. We didn't make them up, either, we took them out of this website. Between January 1, 2009 and December 3, 2009, 186 million kilos were sold on the outskirts of Galicia. In the same period this year, 136 million pounds. The fact is, it leaves nowhere to doubt: 20 million pounds less. So who's lying and who's telling the question? So reality doesn't always appear in speeches, reality doesn't change because let's say that fishing is wonderful and that everybody has to work in the sector. If they really want to support the sector, they put appropriate measures and material conditions in place so that people who want to work in the sector don't have any difficulties. I'm just hallucinating! When we always talk about any subject, the situation that goes wrong in the country is to blame for the speeches we make by catastropheists. No, look, reality is what it is. And reality changes with material issues, it doesn't change with any kind of story. And reality is evidenced by the data I just gave you, which are not invented, which are now taken from their own websites. Then they'll explain. They'll come back and, as you have the closing shift, they'll say something different or you're interested in. And then it seems to us also amazing that it denies that in the internal distribution year after year Galicia is harmed. It's amazing! I mean, it's an obvious reality. And we'll have to take action so that this year doesn't go through the same thing again. If you're in compliance with the current situation, then you're in agreement. We don't get along because it's not a question that's well-made, and the sector is facing greater difficulties every day. Then I say again that by verbalizing it and announcing it here in a speech, you don't defend artisanal fishing. In the public policies of recent years, what they defend in their own accounts and where they put the emphasis is not on defending artisanal fishing, but on the contrary, they ignore the worrying situation that will have to live craft fishing if it consolidates and confirms this negotiation that is being debated today. When they're talking, you focus on an area of the fleet that's never here. If you really defend it, for example, why don't you defend it out of the TACs and quotas? Because we're talking about the most sustainable fishing and the one that has less environmental impact. It defends itself with concrete measures. And it's not just in these policies and in negotiations with the European Union, it's the policies of the Galician Union over the last few years, of which we are not talking today. But, of course, they can't say that if you do everything possible, that everything possible does the Galician Union, to defend the artisanal sector and fishing, when in fact it's all the opposite. Data shows and sector knows perfectly well. And when I was referring to what we were in the face of a recurring debate, it is not because it is a debate that does not believe it is necessary — quite the contrary, of course, that it is necessary and, as I said at first, I hope that this debate had been held before the decision was taken — but that it is recurrent because in all the TAC and quota negotiations, in general in the public policies of the European Union, we are constantly being harmed. That is what I mean by the fact that it is recurrent, that the trend is often negative, that our sector regularly faces difficulties, greater difficulties. And as I said, the data endorse this statement, it's not a question to be said. The data is there, you're dealing with all that data. The only answer they have when negative data comes out is to say that with the Bipartite it was worse. Of course, I wasn't in the Bipartite, but then I don't think that's the answer. All the evils of Galicia were caused by the Bipartite for four years, everything, absolutely everything. The rest of the People's Party's government, which has been a lot more, had nothing to do with the public policies that develop in our country. If they want to keep having the debates in this so false and absurd way, we must continue to have them, but they don't actually come here to sell that they defend issues when it's perfectly obvious... it's just that there's no need to remember what happened in the past legislation, what they had to stop because all the fishermen went out on the streets of our country. We remember, you should also have a little bit more memory without forgetting how many people are claiming another policy for the sector in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u86	Well, let's see. Madam Quintana, as you can see, when you answer the questions exactly that they ask you, I don't know, here it seems like a nervousness. Change your tone, Mrs. Toja. All right, you go back to your argumentary, but if you say you need to update some things, you also have to update them, because there are a lot of things that are already left in the lethargy and they're not real. Mrs Quintana spoke of the work they are doing based on technical studies and on co-governance, which they are doing on a permanent basis. So, of course, you have to raise your tone even more, because you have answered all the questions you have asked you, with genuine transparency and without hiding anything, which is what you came to do here today, talking about the document and the proposal that exists, which we have on the table, and what needs to work. Besides — I will allow myself, Mrs. Quintana — you are a fundamental fighter for the fisheries sector in Galicia; therefore, I believe that these negotiations surely, with the commitment and impetus that you normally put, can be satisfactory for Galicia. And, Mrs. Prado, look, she says, how I don't like things, because I change them. Now you're in that speech, directly, from time to time. Look, it's not the cost of anything, it's nobody's cost, here there's absolutely nothing to hide, and it's not going to harm another's fishing. Because not, because not, Mrs. Prado. And if I'm talking about catastrophe, it's because you don't accept and you don't value anything better. Because figures don't question them here, they're fishing more than in 2009 they don't question it. So you clearly state what model you want, and how you would do what you criticize so much here and what you look so black. That's what we're waiting for in this legislation and for a long time. Because I say the Welsh fleet doesn't lose weight. And if you're talking about political weight, I'm also talking about the weight of the fleet. In Brussels Galicia is an example, and the Welsh fishing sector and the Galician fleet is an example. So I insist, I boast of Galicia and boast of the Welsh fishing sector; I no longer tell you politically, nor of the Galician Union, but of the fishing sector and of the fleet. Mrs. Toja, as I say, has brought up an argument that needs to be updated, because you're taking all the legislation into consideration some of the subjects that we have approved, which we have worked on and which we have included in the budgets of the Galician Union in the area of the sea; therefore, you're working on those subjects by which you say you change your tone to talk about them. You can talk about them anyway, in the same tone, but here it is true that you can do it as you wish. It's normal for you to make here a candy that cost me a little bit of understanding on the subject of affiliations. Because the Socialist Party has a record, which is the record of unemployment, it's the champions of unemployment, of the decline in membership of Social Security and the drop in work. So it's normal for you to make that candy that it's hard for us to understand. Because what Mrs. Quintana said here is data today, it's data today, new memberships to Social Security. And in the execution of the budget, Mrs. Quintana expressed exactly the execution data of the budget; therefore, neither false nor official or unofficial data, are the data that are, are the data that are. Well, we want a competitive sector, and when there's a need to get out of the bottom, if there's a need for the FEMP, we'll have to do it. But we want a competitive fishing sector that we are standing permanently, as I said before, with subsidies. When necessary, of course, they're put on the table. But what are you talking about? other autonomous communities that have that model, of Andalusia? Well, Andalucia with that model, the truth is, they're not doing very well, and they've just told you that they don't want that model, they want competitiveness, they want the future and they want to work more towards the future. And Galicia, as I say, is an example in the rest of Spain — because it is the context. We are going as Spaniards to Brussels, and as Greeks we have to claim what we have here and which have no other autonomous communities. Well, he's finished saying that at this rate fishing ceases to exist. Well, I see that more and more is also joining the speech of the Galician Nationalist Block. It's normal because now they're getting closer to socialists and nationalists. But we're going to have you bring something up and you can update your argumentary, which has already been a little late. Mrs. Quinteiro, you speak on behalf of a group here in Galicia, but, of course, I don't know if it's the same thing in Brussels. Because in many cases the statements and proposals of the Group of the European People's Party in Brussels are being put down in an extreme way by ecology and very to the detriment and very against Greek fishing. So it's also good that we have a sensible speech and that we know exactly what we stand for in one place and another. Therefore, I believe that the Greeks — the fishing sector — are clear that they have, fortunately, a Galician Union and an advisor who knows and knows the sector perfectly, who within the context we will fight for the best odds and because it is as beneficial as possible. And so I'm going to end with a sentence that the advisor himself said, asking this Parliament to be consistent with these requests, which are not from the Galician Union to 100 percent but which are part of the demands of our fishing sector, because here we have to be the voice of the fishing sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Close this meeting by the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Prado, you continue to insist that the bad situation of the fishing fleet is due to Galicia's lack of political weight in the representation of the European Union. And I insist again: if that low political weight has led us to increase by 80% the fishing opportunities since we were in the government, I don't know what political weight others had. I would recommend to you — and this does not harm you — that you are a seaport, that you have a little more love for fishing, study a little more everything that has to do with fishing. You see what situation we have entered the European Economic Community. At that time, the People's Party was not ruling in Spain. At that time, it was agreed that we would have 7,5 % of all fishing opportunities in the European Union at Spain's entry into the European Union. And that 7.5 percent is what we have to work with. That's not the political weight of the government of Galician PP, eh! That is, having these fishing opportunities, what we have to do from Galicia is look for the best arguments so that those fishing opportunities don't go any less but go the more. And that's what we've been trying since we got to the government in 2009. Of course, you come here with a speech that I don't know who wants to tell you, which says we're worried about increasing discharges, but we don't know very well which species, we don't know very well what we're increasing. Man! for we increase species of as little value as fish. The fish has increased their fishing opportunities by 104 percent and will increase them by 28% this year. Is it a kind of very little value? I would suggest -- and to give Mrs. Quinteiro peace of mind -- is that you can't compare the data of 2009, already consolidated, with the data of the year 2018, which are not yet consolidated. So, let's wait until the end of the year, let's wait for the consolidated data. You've noticed that I never present the data balance in December, because the data is not consolidated. Data must be given for a while, presented and consolidated. When the data for 2018 are consolidated, I came here and I'll tell you, as I saw here and I told you about 2017, when they were already consolidated. So what I can tell you is that in 2017 -- consolidated data -- 27% of the downloads were increased, and the billing increased. You yourself spoke of 192,000 tons downloaded in 2009, and in 2017 we exceeded the 200,000 tons downloaded. I mean, I don't come here to take off or put on medals, I come here to tell reality, I come here to try to believe a job we're doing together with the industry and scientists to find the best arguments and make fishing opportunities go on and on. And that's what I'm moving them. Mrs. Toja said that I tell half the truth because I say that schools have increased their enrolments by 46%, that we have full schools and that there are still people who are not going to work at sea because they're still working on land. I think I didn't deny it, I think what I said precisely is that we have to make fishing more attractive so that people who have training, instead of just working in companies on the ground, can go to work on ships as well. But for people to be an attractive activity, we have to be able to improve the inhabitability of ships, and I cannot improve the inhabitability of ships as long as the European Union continues to understand that making a bigger boat means that I'm going to make a ship with greater fishing capacity. What we're trying now is to believe in the European Union that making a bigger boat means giving that vessel a better habitability and not increasing its fishing activity. And on that line I'm going to keep working, because I think the line of the future is the line so I can get the youth to think seriously about going to work at sea. What I'm not going to let you say either is that, with the new North-West Cantabrian Management Plan, Galicia has worsened its situation. The data, once again, come to believe that, for all the arts, for our entire fleet, since the new Management Plan of the Cantabrian-West Room has improved. And yet I still say that the commitment was to make biannual reviews of this plan to try to improve management. Because every time we negotiate with the European Union, one of the problems we have is that we do not use all the fishing opportunities we have for each year. It's hard to ask the European Union to let us fish more when we don't believe we're running out of all the fishing opportunities we have. Anyway, to keep them quiet, the drag, since we have the management model of the Cantabrian-West Side, has increased their downloads by 23%, and 14% the billing. The siege increased its discharge by more than 90%, and 34% its billing. The steering wheel increased its downloads by 22% in 2017 compared to 2010, and the billing grew by 20%. In the background, catches were 33% higher, and invoicing was one of the best exercises since 2010. And in smaller arts, 15 percent more was downloaded than in 2010, and 17 percent more was billed. So, both in discharges and invoicing, since we have the new model of management of the Cantabrian-West Side, we have increased fishing opportunities and invoicing. As for the way — that Mrs. Prado left because she didn't have time to talk to him and left him there in an interview — I, as I have a little more time, picked up the data to give him peace, Mrs. Prado. Download data: average captures since there is a plane is higher than the average decade before the plan by 12%. Billing data: average billing since there's a plan is higher than the average of the plan's preceding decade by 25%. The average price data: the average average price since there's a plan, compared to the average of the previous decade, is 16.6 % higher. So I'd like the sardines to have better conditions. The truth is that I believe that the joint work that has been done between the kingdom of Spain and Portugal has managed to prevent sardine from being put into the TAC and quotas system, we have been able to present a recovery plan that has been approved in the European Union. And I'm convinced that if we continue to work on this plan and give better data every day, accompanied by data from the campaigns being carried out by the Spanish Oceanography Institute, we will be able to say that if we already have the sardine recovered, saying that there is no need for the sardine to be introduced into the TAC system and quotas. The truth is that I want to leave here with a feeling, and it's the feeling that all the political groups in Galicia want fishing to be present but also that fishing has a future, they have my commitment to continue working on this line; and that we're not talking about absurd data that might be in some bar commentary, but what we have to have are scientific arguments, we have to have historical records, we have to have statistics, which are the ones that accompany our work in front of the European Union. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u89	Thank you, Counselor. We have to say hello, although we have almost finished the full schedule tomorrow morning, the 5th grade students of the Virge do Carme multilingual center of Burela. Welcome to Parliament. Today you've seen little debate, because today we've been more in a hurry and then we're done before. But, in any case, welcome to Parliament, on another occasion you will see the debate. For me, I'd put in a motion now. But, after the various consultations I have made, this is very complex. And since it's very complex, I'm not going to get into an even more complex complexity right now. So if they don't care... it's very difficult. [[Murmurs.]] Neither the first nor the second nor the third is possible. I spoke to everyone, but it is enough for a Member to make it impossible for him not to do so. Then, I'd only stay the fourth. I don't know if there's a possibility in the fourth or no possibility, but I also see that it's difficult. There's no chance. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then we can come a little earlier because we're going to end up late today. If you want, I suggest we come at four or four. [[Murmurs.]] Four minus a room? Do we all agree? [[Murmurs.]] For me, if you like, three and a half. Watch out!, I'm also open to all these possibilities. [[Protests.]] You know I don't have this problem for full days. [[Murmurs.]] Three and a half, three... I'm open to everything! [[Murmurs.]] Three and a half? [[Strong murmurers.]] Look how hard it is! [[Strong murmurers.]] And just to agree on when we have to come. Let's see, three and a half? No, no, no, no. [[Murmurs.]] Well, at four, we saw four, minus four.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u90	Good afternoon. We restart the session with the third item on the agenda, which corresponds to the motions. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the projects of waste management and treatment facilities, as well as existing installations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u91	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u92	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all Members and all Members. Good afternoon also to the neighbors of Teo and Miramontes and to the people who belong to the platforms of the two waste plants, which unfortunately have been very fashionable, and follows that of fashionable Miramontes these last days. This motion we are debating today comes from an interpellation 15 days ago from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the Environment Adviser. And today it is up to us to vote as a result of this motion, and we will see that this is what we are voting on every parliamentary group here, because at the end of the vote we are drawing on each other. And that's what it's all about: each one marks his policies when he votes, and we'll see what he votes for each other. We believe that this motion is comprehensive enough and important enough for all parliamentary groups in the House to vote in favour because, basically and in a very humble way, it would achieve, for at least a time, environmental, social and security problems for people, as well as legal security in the country. I'm saying that for at least a while, because it would allow all those projects that are above the table of some municipalities in Galicia to be paralysed. Obviously, it will not fix such problems of environmental control in relation to plants or installations that are already open, but it could paralyze those projects that are above the table of various municipalities in Galicia. And if it serves as an advance to the bill that we have made from this parliamentary group and that we will bring the debate, because we understand that yes can definitely solve the issue not only for projects, but also for those plants that are causing problems. Because politics has to be used to solve problems without needing to go to the Environment Attorney's office to solve them when there's no way of solving them; for that we're here. In this motion we urge the Government to address five questions: First of all, that it fulfils its own law, which is the Law of the Land of 2016, which speaks of the sustainable management of natural resources, and that these facilities, these landfills, in the end, of waste in rustic soil or either in soils near residential areas, guarantee the protection of the environment and contain restoration plans that are really. Because, by the way, and by the way, and by the way, these restoration plans are most of the time a "chuckle", they're a rail, a pair of caresses, but they really aren't restoration plans neither reliable nor effective. We also ask the Government to ensure that, with regard to those plants that already exist, there is comprehensive and periodic control, such as that of Miramontes, but with regard to those that already exist, as well as sanctions procedures. When technicians go, open records, record records and collect data that are alarming, open by the Government, by political leaders, sanctioning procedures and sanctioning companies. And, above all, when those levels that are established in the corresponding integrated environmental authorisations are scandalously above the levels that the law permits or that each integrated environmental authorisation allows, which is addressed by the Government directly to the Prosecutor's Office and warned of the possible commission by companies of a suspected environmental crime. And with regard to those projects that still don't exist, we ask the Government to modify before the end of this year -- so let's bring it in December -- this is its Industrial Waste Management Plan 2016-2022, so that we can solve the problems that have arisen in those places where these types of projects exist, mainly so that these plants are located in industrial polygons and that corrective measures are applied for the location of the plants where they are required, and that new facilities are not less than two and a half kilometres from the rural or urban cores, or one kilometre from the nearest housing, except for municipal planning in those sites where there is another thing, taking into account the circumstances of the territory, the distances and, above all, the environmental quality of the surroundings. We ask that for those municipalities that have no means, that there are many in Galicia, that they can't issue reports because they don't have enough human resources or technical means, the Government agrees with them and there are aid to funding, at least, for the issuance of those reports. This happened in Teo, the city compatibility report of the project that had to be issued. And finally, we ask the Government to push for the execution of budget games that are painted in the budget, but then for the restoration they don't run, they don't apply. We already told the advisor the other day that only about ten percent of the game was actually executed for the restoration of abandoned mines in Galicia. We're worried, and we told the counsellor the other day -- it's a pity he's not here and he can't listen to us -- that in those plants that already exist, there's no control by the government. There's control by technicians, who go, who take notes, who take the data, who open procedures and raise records, but nothing else. There is no control. It had to arrive — in the case of the Miramontes dump is the obvious proof — the Environment Prosecutor's Office to establish an initial control and to force the Government itself to issue a report, and therefore to exercise control over the Government. We're afraid because when those acts are written, and there are, and they get to the council, we don't know what's going on with them. We don't know if you open a box that puts "Acts" and they get inside and close, and there they stay for posterity, or you just look to the other side and they stay there too. And this happens with existing projects, existing installations. Those that don't exist, but may exist in the future, give us the feeling — if we're wrong — that the Government is not interested in legislating them away from places that cause problems for people's health and lives. That's the feeling we have from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. And we are also concerned about those municipalities that are defenseless and have insufficient means to be able to deal with very powerful companies, which, of course, want, and is legitimate, is to be able to benefit from their activities, in this case with activities related to waste management and waste treatment. But if we are concerned, it doesn't matter much, or it doesn't matter much; there we, as the president says. The problem is that those who are worried are those people who are up there and all their neighbors and all their neighbors. And that's important to us. Two weeks ago, the councillor made a revolutionary package between the facilities that already exist and those that do not yet exist, to try to take us to a place she intended to take us to. But these are different things: for those that already exist, greater control and, indeed, rigorous, and for projects, this motion. That's what we intend to do today. And in addition, he made an important escapism maneuver. He said that we blamed the inspectors and that we didn't really create them, that we couldn't prevent because paralyzing and preempting, not always, depends on the circumstances. Of course, he told us that in Theo Town Hall they were evil, that they had to make a report in a month and they did it in eight. He didn't say the government has for the 2010 Miramontes Act, and eight years have passed and nothing has been done either. But in the government, they're not evil. He said that in Teo they had no general plan, that they would be offered help. He also said that the integrated environmental authorization of Miramontes was of the year 2008, and therefore the evils were those of the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño. Well, but that's normal, they're very bad, and they had ears, tail, legs, and claws. That we lied about saying that in the integrated environmental authorization of the 2008 Miramontes, they can't go organic. We never said that, they can go up to a limit of ten percent, because that's what the prosecutor says by his own permission, and so says the prosecutor in his criminal proceedings. What they can't do is get over thirty percent as it's happening right now. That's what you can't. You can ask the Environment Attorney and he'll explain it to you probably much better than I do. He also told us that the Council is legally studying for Miramontes to act on its own initiative and to change the integrated environmental authorization, so they decide to continue or not with the Miramontes dump. One milonga, one milonga to calm the people who live in Grixoa, because with all those data and all those records, where it's said that you're failing to comply with integrated environmental authorization, you could have done a long time before that study legally of the profession for several years, at least since 2010.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u93	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u94	I'm gonna finish it, president. The advisor also told us that Pepe Bugallo was evil and that the prosecutor was also evil because he had gotten in the middle. What a shame! Well, thanks to the fact that the prosecutor got in the middle of the Miramontes affair, in relation to those plants that already exist, control is going to be superior. Miramontes and Teo are two pearls, but they're not the only ones, they're not the only places in Galicia, there's a lot more. And we believe that it deserves to be brought forward in Parliament today, and we call on all groups to be responsible and to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u96	Thank you, President. I also want to greet the people who accompany us in the public, who come both from Casalongta and from Miramontes and Gryxona to express here their concern and rejection of these threats they have in their territory. And we hope, as has already been done in previous debates on these matters in committee and also in plenary, that we can come to an agreement, that it is a really firm agreement and not a scrapping agreement, as is sometimes adopted. And in this sense, I think we have to recognize that there is an unquestionable reality, even if we want to hide it, that we have a problem with the management of industrial waste. Also in the case of urban waste, but now we're talking about industrial waste. And this reality, this problem has to do with multiple causes, and there are several responsibilities. The truth is, there is not only responsibility of the Galician Union, of the Self-Government, but also that the Government of the State has much to say in this matter, and the municipalities, of course, because there are shared competences. The first cause of this problem has to do with -- we can call it -- "the leave of functions on the part of the Galician Union," as well as with ambiguities and legal voids in the regulations, which allow them to meet projects where they should not be. And at the same time, the Galician Union manifests a clear allowability for non-compliance with companies, which are supposedly authorized for waste management and which systematically violates regulations and also violates Galician Industrial Waste Plan. Another problem has to do with the inability of the municipalities sometimes, for various reasons, to answer them and to deal with the processing of these projects. We've seen how in the case of Theo Town Hall it took a long time, when we could have solved that process much more quickly, avoiding much concern, and they're still not free to try to install any such projects there as well. And thirdly, there is what we can call the piracy of authorized waste management companies, who are trying to take advantage of degraded land, mainly quarrying, to deploy landfills or urban waste treatment plants. And this also happens because there is a state-wide legislation, essentially the Royal Decree of 2009, on waste management of extractive industries and also the Royal Decree of 2008, which regulates the production and management of construction and demolition wastes, which are a real queue so that these types of quarrys can be used to locate these plants or landfills for the treatment of industrial waste. And so we have to proliferate, especially curiously in the province of Coruña, and specifically in the district of Santiago, projects of dumps and industrial waste management plants in which they dominate, in the face of social, environmental and technical criteria, the cost savings and maximization of benefits by companies, who intend to use degraded, abandoned soils, cheap soil, ultimately, devalued only, to settle in canterlands that rather than accommodate these types of projects should be the object of rehabilitation and environmental restoration projects. So, at this point, the BNG, as you have already said in previous debates, will support these measures; measures which seek clarification for the Galician Union, because the criteria for the placement of industrial waste plants are not clear at this time. And here the BNG criterion is absolutely clear: industrial installations have to go to industrial soil. And we need to modify the Prayer so that it may be, so that they go to business parks, these facilities, such as mud treatment, debuggers and canteens, because if not the Priga, it would be wet paper. Furthermore, the Priga, Galicia's Industrial Waste Plan, which says that no more plants are needed, that Galicia annually produces 190,000 tonnes of industrial waste from sewage sludges and canteens, and that Galicia has the capacity to treat 750,000. In addition, there are nineteen plants in Galicia that are already authorized to manage these types of treatments, of which eleven are in the province of Coruña, which means that if any province is not in need of such facilities, it is precisely the province of Coruña. Secondly, we think that the municipalities also have to apply themselves and put on the batteries, as well as get planning and ordering their territory precisely to avoid these coffers and this use of state legislation, as I said earlier, as a real back door for mining and quarrying to become uncontrolled landfills, with the excuse of restoration and rehabilitation and with that real plague of technosols. And in this sense, the BNG is going to present an initiative specifically aimed at changing this state legislation, and at the moment we expect to count on the support of all groups. So they're going to have our support, and we're going to continue in this battle to avoid this mess of the territory, this perverse use that is intended to be made of the quarry in Santiago County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u97	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u98	Good afternoon, everyone and the people who come to see the plenary today on this subject. First of all, to say that this motion, which we are going to support, and the situation in this country is caused by a nefarious and negligent management of the Environmental Council. Nefarious and negligent management of a council that always stands on the side of companies and that always ignores the fair demands of neighbors and neighbors, who find themselves in truly Kafkian processes when they have to fight just to be able to live a dignified daily life in their homes. And that's how it is. It would only be enough if this parliament could come to people who are above saying what is happening, for example, in Miramontes, in the parish of Grixoa, which have been going on for years, with unbearable smells, with pollution, with leached, etc., knowing the true science that the law is not being carried out and that the Union does not enforce legislation, so that we know that this situation has been caused by a negligible action by the Council of Galicia and the Council of Environment, which is always subordinate to these interests, be in the waste treatment projects, be in the mining, as we are seeing in Touro, in the praiseries of Valdeorras, in Santa Comba, in Lousame, etc., and so on. It's conceptive, and we have to say it that way. Because beyond that, of course, we have a waste plan that has criteria for the location of this type of facility. They're clear. It would be necessary to comply; it is obvious. Above all, they will be located in industrial soils. That's the norm, the exception is rustic alone. No, not here, but in the opposite direction: the rule is an exception and the exception is a norm, because Galician Union is looking elsewhere. And then we see an avalanche of projects that are located trying to maximize benefits in rustic soil, without any kind of environmental criteria or people's welfare. And so we also see differences in the criteria of the Galician Council, which approves an environmental impact statement by the simplified way in Coristanco, in Furocca. There, by the way, the People's Party promoted a fraudulent motion of censure, precisely because the previous government has paralyzed a plant of industrial waste treatment, because this kind of business moves a lot of money. And they made a dirty motion of censure the People's Party, with a multi- MP mayor, and there a declaration of simplified environmental impact. On the other hand, in Artexo, mayor of the People's Party, and where there was citizen mobilization, which was near the Crown, because they are obliged to make a declaration of ordinary environmental impact. The same company, the same project, different resolutions of the Environmental Council. Therefore, the application of legislation, you who so presume to apply the law and to comply with the law, because nothing. On the other hand, the Land Law: in any kind of rustic soil, any kind of installation of this kind can be made. That's why it seems to us that the Socialist Party's proposal is more advanced, even at the last time, because it is true that it excludes certain justified and motivated landfills: when there is no industrial soil to do it, but where it is most suitable, but that it is primarily located in industrial soil. Then in these conflicts, when there is a project, there is also an answer from the neighborhood where there is a certain vitality of the population. There are more abandoned areas where you can't even make a resistance phenomenon. And there are differences in Teo, in Casalonga, where there was a great protest movement, which achieved performances. I'm surprised the Galego Nationalist Block comes here to focus the Teo Town Hall on this subject, when it was what made a report that prevented this project from being done. It's precisely the administration that responded; I suppose those reports are also made by Teo. And also, Mr Bará, who is from the municipality of Pontevedra, where they have had a General Plan of Municipal Management for many years, I am surprised that he comes here to focus on the Council of Teo, which was what gave a solution to the neighborhood. Well, in this case, what we have to say is that this movement seems to be different and that there are different levels of protection, either at the Casalonga or in Grixoa, where a scandalous situation is going on and where it seems that none of this matters to the board. Here we saw the People's Party, for the first time randomly in a long time, mobilize against a waste treatment plant project. Well, I don't know why he's been bothering more than ever, but we'd like to use the same feature with all the projects. We have here — and I think this should bring shame upon the lords of the People's Party — all the failures that are suffering from the vicinity of Grixoa, with a huge work of these neighbours and neighbours. [[Mr. Sánchez García shows the House a document in a leaflet.]] They say that the maximum authorised treatment capacity, storage of waste outside installation is exceeded here, the manufactured technosole does not meet the conditions of ITR0108, so it continues to have the consideration of residue, maturation and accumulation of technosoles on the ground at the temperature...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u99	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u100	...unauthorized handling of leachates, storage of the technosol produced outside the installation, the thickness of the technosol layer to be applied according to the restoration plan, etc., etc., etc., etc. And they're still in a Kafkian process. So we support this motion and we denounce that the Environmental Council continues without defending the rights of people living near these treatment plants, because it defends the business of these companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u101	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u102	Good afternoon, gentlemen. I also want to greet the members of the platforms that accompany us today, the neighbors and also the conciers who are here with us. Mrs. Vilan, you said you wanted our vote, so frankly, it didn't look like it; it didn't look like it because of the initiative you've registered, nor does it look like it by the way and by its intervention. You ask us, on the one hand, to comply with the law, and on the other hand, you also ask us to violate it. I don't know what you do where you rule; I don't know what you did in the Bipartite, but by your motion we can imagine. You had a sad intervention, full of insinuations and half-truths, as well as lies. This group and the Government that supports it do not move by arbitrariness or sympathy and antipathy, move by strict compliance with the law. In particular, in the processing of such projects, the Government of Greece is always guided by compliance with environmental legality, and it does so in all cases with maximum guarantees. You, on the other hand, seem to want prevaric administration. We have laws, ladies and gentlemen, we have administrative procedures, we have a sanctioning regime, but that gives you all the same. Depending on the day, you propose something or the opposite, but what is already becoming customary is that you ask the Government to act arbitrarily and depending on the day, and also -- what happens! -- the color of the municipality, whether or not it meets the law as appropriate. You have a somewhat special conception of administration, in which technicians are not to comply with the law, but to comply with the will of their lordships. You think officials work for your party; let's say, model state lawyer. We need to delete a few words, including "rebellion" and "violence", well, there they have to go. It doesn't matter, everything in the service of his party. Well, look, ladies and gentlemen, it's not like this, you can't stop a process like that because you do, because you don't like it. That would be preemptive. When there is an application for an initiative, the Board shall process it in accordance with the procedure laid down by law to ensure the environmental protection of our community. Technicians analyse projects with maximum rigor and criteria, and they work with the highest level of legislation, because waste plant projects don't analyze them by the advisor, nor by the majority group of Parliament. And it won't, of course, be you, the minority groups, who do these tests; they do the technicians. Behind you, gentlemen, there's a huge technical and human work that you're despising. It's about compliance, Mr. Sánchez. Of course, speaking to you about compliance with the law, which we're familiar with, is it funny, huh, Mr. Sánchez? You're incapable of even meeting your own standards... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u103	Mr. Sánchez, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u104	...are you unable to organize an assembly without a pudding; you are able to do everything possible to chim Mr. Villares. Of course, you're talking about administrative processes and law enforcement. But apart from all that, you're also a bit sectarian, because you could have said here what the municipalities are, name and surname those municipalities that are making greens, but you didn't. He didn't. Why? Because it won't be that they chim you like they're going to do with Mr. Villares. [[Applause]] On the legislative amendments that you propose, Mrs Vilán, we have already had the necessary and appropriate regulatory instruments for the processing of waste plant projects. Both the Land Law and the Priga have shown their effectiveness in agitating these initiatives. What we have to do is work rigorously and seriously, with complete assurance of environmental protection and safety for the Greeks and the Greeks. And that's what Junta is doing: acting strictly legally and responsibly. I ask you to act in the same way, with responsibility, and not to alarm the population unnecessarily and partisanly, and make no proposals to camouflage your desire and incompetence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u105	Mr. Sánchez, I'll call you in order, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u106	This initiative emerges from a project filed in September of this year by the Board, which is that of Casalonga. And that's precisely why the Teo Council exercised its urban competences and issued an unfavorable urban compatibility report. There is no doubt that the current legislation and urban planning were more than enough for the installation of this plant. That's right, a report that had to be made in a month, and it took eight months. Eight months in which the Town Hall, instead of working, devoted itself to alarming the neighbors and neighbors of Teo when he had the solution in his hand. And see if the legislation provides tools that the Town Hall uses to make its report late. He referred to the State Soil Law, the Galician Soil Law and its regulations, as well as to the current autonomous waste planning. By the end, I wanted to make a mention of your point 4, in which you ask to establish agreements for the Board to pay the reports to the Town Councils. Look, Your Honor — here we are always talking about competences, and I like to remind you: Members have legally granted legal assistance and cooperation. You rule in three of these deputies, rule with support in cases of the Tide and in other cases of the Nationalist Block. I don't know why you want to rule anywhere if you're unable to exercise those powers, and if you're unable to help the municipalities, which is your obligation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u108	So before you introduce points here for the Galician Union to act arbitrarily to try to wash their faces to their municipalities, you do... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u109	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u110	...they exercise their powers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u111	Mr. Sánchez, I call you by order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u112	...and do the procedures you have to do with rigour and responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u113	You're done now, Mr. Trenor. Mr. Sánchez, a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u114	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u115	Thank you. You cannot be constantly interrupting who is in the use of the word, Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure. No, no, you can't... No, sorry. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] The debate is a debate of political confrontation without insulting. No, no, I've been careful; nobody was insulted. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Who doesn't like... what they don't like is another question; I don't enter it anymore. Author group of the motion, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u116	Thank you, President. I don't know if Mr. Trenor wants us to get off our knees as if we were in a rummage and apologize every time we can talk in this rostrum. Perhaps that is the case, because the intervention was not — I believe — lasting at all. [[Applause]] But you didn't like it. By the way, we don't alarm anyone, because those people who are up there, as well as those who live in Teo and those who live in Santiago, have enough ability to understand what will be put next to their house. We don't control anyone because, fortunately, we live in a democracy where people freely decide and have enough insights to know what they're meant to put next to their home. [[Applause]] By the way, we appreciate the tremendous mobilization of the neighbors of Teo and the mobilization, the courage and work of the neighbors of Grixoa, who had the courage to go to the Prosecutor's office. You didn't, for example. The government didn't have the courage, despite having all the data in that box that probably put "Acts", I don't know if it has a bright label or not. But they had the courage to go to the prosecutor's office, and that's why there's a criminal trial open. By the way, it's quite -- I don't know -- strange that you get so angry. I'm not going to go to the town hall list, so you don't have to go against me. They're not competition, they're not. [[Applause]] But it is curious that you leave, which does not belong to the surroundings of Santiago, and no other member of your group leaves to defend here that you will vote but not to this motion. It's pretty curious. [[Murmurs.]] We didn't ask... you didn't read the motion! Because at no point are they asked to prevent or stop any processing. Mr. Trenor, you're not asking. You have to read the motions before you go out talking about them, and you haven't read it. We don't even ask the board to make the city council reports, to fund the reports. No, no, some city hall arrangements. [[Murmurs.]] I'll read it literally.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u117	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u118	Fourth point: "Setting agreements with those municipalities which do not have sufficient means to finance the reporting actions". Mrs. Paula Prado, you didn't have the courage to come out here, please, don't interrupt me when I'm speaking! [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Please! [[Applause]] If he wanted to talk, he had his chance, and he didn't. Then he'll probably come up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u119	Quiet. Quiet, Mrs. Prado. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. [[Protests.]] First warning to Mrs. Prado, too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez, four warnings before you call him in order. [[Murmurs.]] This is balanced.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u120	Thank you, President. Everyone retreats in their silences or in their words. We have made it clear that waste treatment is necessary, it is essential. What we don't want is that the canisters are used as garbage cubes — that's what we don't want — without any control. Because the prosecutor himself—and I return to him, poor, got in the middle, as he said to counsel—says: "The amount of organic matter that is deposited in the vessel"—Miramontes— "is far more than 10% established in the construction project, failing to comply with the integrated environmental authorization and putting at risk the constructive safety of the debris. It is also observed that in leaching analyses it can be seen that in most samples taken the levels of 800 milligrams/litre are exceeded, increasing this value by more than four in many cases."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u122	He says, for example, that even — he has finished, President — there are hazardous wastes like asbestos in cells that contain waste with a high biodegradable organic load. It also says that smells—"smelling problems can affect a greater production..."—are unbearable, because "they have been suffering for months after recording complaints by themselves, so it seems important to know the olfactory study", which is curiously done after protesting the neighbors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u124	Vote in favor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u126	...so that they don't fall in shame.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u127	Thank you. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact it is having in Galicia at the constant rise of the price of electricity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u128	Amendments to this motion were tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the En Marea Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Abel Losada Álvarez, through his spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution of the motion should be replaced by the following:"The Greek Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to:1. To present in the Welsh Chamber, opening up the participation of parliamentary groups, in the first quarter of 2019, the Energy Guidelines of Galicia 2018-2020, already collected in the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020 with the relevant journalism, and in which relevant considerations are gathered on the role of the electrointensive industries in the Italian industrial fabric.2. Develop a specific plan to implement in its entirety the dedicated budgets of support mechanisms for undertakings and families corresponding to the budget programme 733A-Energy efficiency and renewable energies, as provided for in the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2019.3. Ask the company Alcoa to reconsider and withdraw from the job termination file on the entire staff in its factory in La Coruña, attempting to find solutions, among all the affected political, economic and social agents that allow the maintenance of production and employment in that factory.4. Ask the Government of Spain:4.1. It develops a new regulatory framework for the electricity sector, including tax areas, to boost renewable energy and ensure stable energy supply at a reasonable, fair and stable price, both for consumers and for industrial facilities. Always in a more rational and environmentally sustainable energy transition model. 4.1. It develops a new regulatory framework for the electricity sector, including tax areas, to boost renewable energy and ensure stable energy supply at a reasonable, fair and stable price, both for consumers and for industrial facilities. Always in a more rational and environmentally sustainable energy transition model.4.2. That establishes a negotiation to prevent people from drinking electricity from having to assume the economic consequences of judgments on territorial supplements for the 2013 fiscal year. 4.2. That establishes a negotiation to prevent people from drinking electricity from having to assume the economic consequences of judgments on territorial supplements for the 2013 financial year.4.3. To carry out the necessary actions for legislative amendments to Law 24/2013, of 26 December 2013, of the electricity sector and of IET/221/2013, of 14 February and IET/1491/2013, of 1 August, approved by the former Government of Spain in respect of territorial supplements for the financial year 2013; with the objective that those environmental taxes established by the Autonomic Administration should be assumed by the companies holding the installations or activities concerned. All of them with high business benefits, and are not abused or impacted on consumers.4. That sets out the appropriate formulas for energy-intensive industries to access the energy market in conditions similar to other European Union countries.4.5. It establishes, within the framework of the Law on Climate Change and Energy Transition, and under the General Budgets of the State Public Policies for Aid to the Intensive Industry, under the Guidelines of the European Commission on State Aid for Environmental Protection and Energy 2014-2020.4.6. To call on the European Union to set up European funds to compensate for the costs of high energy consumption (electronic industry) companies and to encourage energy transition to low carbon emissions and promote the circular economy.4.7. To review the current mechanism of interruption and capacity, with the aim of making it more competitive and transparent:4.7.a. Developing a methodology to calculate coverage needs, instead of introducing the consideration of the volume of interruption as a starting data in the analysis of that coverage.4.7.b. Simplifying the design and increasing the competitive pressure of the pockets, either by disaggregating the product, or by allowing aggregations of 5MW.4.7.c. Changing the economic activation criteria to make greater use of the mechanism, which will reduce the cost of the service. "]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G.P. Mr de En Marea, at the initiative of his colleague Francisco Casal Vidal, through his spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented to the Bureau the following amendments to this motion.Amendment No 1 of amendment.The text of paragraph 2 of the motion should be replaced by the following:"2. If Alcoa insists on its intention to close the Coruña factory, she urges the Government of the State to use Article 128.2. of the EC to assume the management of the company through SEPI as long as an industrial alternative is not achieved with sufficient guarantees for the long-term industrial activity and the maintenance of employment."Amendment #2, amendment #2. The text in paragraph 5 of the motion must be replaced by the following:"5. To defend before the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the European Union, in order to amend the directives which made it possible, that the fees and charges of this industrial tariff are different in each Autonomous Community on the basis of its condition of surplus or deficit in the production of electricity, benefiting at lower rates those communities which are net exporters of electricity, in compensation for bearing the social and environmental costs of production facilities."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G. P. Popular People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Marta Nóvoa Churches and through its spokesman, in the absence of the provisions of Article 151.2 and in accordance with the Rules of the Chamber's Rules of the Chamber, the following amendment to this motion is tabled before the Bureau the following amendment to the following motion.Replacement amendment.The text of the resolution of the motion must be replaced by the text of the resolution of the motion by the following:"The Parliament of Galician Parliament urges the Galician Parliament of Galician Parliament to:1.- Continue to continue to advocate for the points agreed in the Galician Parliament at the beginning of 23 October and of the points requested in writing by the Alcoa Alcohol Workers's and the Government of Spain meeting to the Council of Ministers of Galicia and the Spanish Government at the registration date of 30 October 2018.In this context, it will continue to promote a unit of action to ensure the maintenance of business activity and employment and employment in Galiciantententententensive status of an instant moment, an instant moment-able moment for the necessary moment, the time-able moment the necessary and the necessary for the necessary and the time-table mechanism of the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary and the necessary and the moment of the necessary the necessary the necessary the speed of the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary and the necessary the time-imp-imp-imp-up of the necessary the time-up of the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the time-up of the necessary the time-up of the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the time-up of the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the time-- time- time- and the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary and the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the time- time- time- and the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the necessary the time- time- time- time-- time- time-]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u129	To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u130	Good afternoon, ladies. December 27th. On December 27 is there, there are only twenty-three days left, and it will be a key date when we will know if Alcoa is nearer to a solution or an end. We have a time frame that's shorter and shorter. So we bring this motion with the sense of responsibility that we owe both the workers and the workers of Alcoa and our country. A country that cannot assume as normal its deindustrialization, as if it were something inexorable. We also met with a demand from the staff: more political pressure, more social pressure and proposals and alternatives on the table. Because this time is running out. It's been over a month and a half since Alcoa announced Alcoa's closure in Avilés and also in the Coruña, and since then we have to regret that there have been more words than directly made by responsible administrations. And we have to say that we are not satisfied with the role that these played, neither with the role of the State, nor - we have to say - with the role of the Galician Union and with its degree of compliance, or rather failure, with the agreements we have reached in this chamber. It seems more likely that she's worried about Gallisa's board for throwing balloons out and looking for culprits to circumvent any responsibility of her own. And, of course, from our point of view, this is not the way to find a solution to such an important problem from the point of view of the country. Because today we're talking about Alcoa, we're talking about over 400 jobs, over 400 families, but by extension we're also talking about the rest of our country's electro-intensive industry and whether we're going to give a stable framework for them to go ahead or whether we're going to move forward in our country's deindustrialization. We understand that the response to this situation has two major pillars, and this motion seeks to address both legs: on the one hand, the urgent measures that need the situation of Alcohol and, on the other hand, also the changes that need the energy policy to shield the future of our country's industry. I will therefore focus first on Alcoa's emergencies. On October 24, you will remember your lordships, a week after the company announced its intention to close, we thought that this parliament really, at an early stage, was up, we all reached an agreement in this chamber to the thread of an institutional declaration that seemed to us a good starting point. Since the opposition, all political forces have yielded and come to an agreement. But we have to say that we are disappointed in how this has been accomplished or rather — I insist — failing. We say it out of honesty. Then someone from the People's Party will come and accuse us of being politicized and so on; a little bit on the line -- I hope not so sad -- as the industrial adviser had in the interrogation and in the questions that my organization posed. But the truth is, in honesty we have to say that to us it is so. However, we are prepared and we think it's important to maintain a unitary position. But also that call to unity can't be the disguise so as not to say what's going wrong and not to complain also that there's little transparency, little consensus, but above all few results. And our political responsibility leads us to formulate issues that we believe are unappealable in this motion. The balance of the Galician Union so far is not satisfactory to us, because we think it failed to comply with the unit of action, it did not take into account at any time the arrivals of parliamentary groups, and today I believe that all of us can hear on our public radio as employees of this company say that the news that comes to them are by the press and not by the mouth of the institutions. It seems to us that this one, of course, is not the way. And we understand that the Galician Union should, firstly, commit itself to greater compliance with the agreements of both this 24 October in this Parliament and with the issues which the company committee itself made on 30 October. In particular, a question that we don't understand because it's not yet a reality, which is a work table where these workers can have a direct voice. We understand, therefore, that for the first point of our motion there is no single argument to vote against. As for the second point, what we are doing is to introduce a question which we understand cannot be further debated: that the sooner we find a consensus on that question more prepared and prepared we will be in favour of whether we have to resort to it. And we bet directly because if we value from the central government the possibility of a public intervention in Alcoa, something as simple as that. We don't understand why there are still vetoes around this issue; it's not something exceptional, it's not something that doesn't consider the legal order and it's not something that has not been done in the Spanish State itself or in the European environment itself in similar situations. So we introduced in our motion a specific point, point 2, to bet on public intervention in Alcoa, either to wait for a buyer or to return it to the public domain of what perhaps, if it hadn't come out thanks to Mr Aznar, because we wouldn't be in this situation. But I was saying at the beginning of my intervention that we thought not only about the urgency of Alcoa, but we also have to see that there is beyond the urgency, and try not to comply with what appears in the famous Mafalda cartoon, where it is said that "the urgent doesn't leave time for the important one." We think that the stage that opens, the debates that are being opened must also serve Galicia to put itself on this fundamental issue. Because really what we're seeing today in Alcoa is the sneezing failure of an energy policy fundamentally emanating from the central government, but also from the Galician Union with its silence and absence, which has given an alibi to the electro-intensive industries not to modernize themselves and which has led us to an absolutely unstable and damaging framework. By setting an example, today companies like Alcoa, like Megasa or Ferroatlantic don't know how much megawatt will pay next January 1st. It's less than a month left and you don't know how much the price of electricity consumption will be for your own finances! This is absolutely delusional. How it's disappointing that all of this depends on a 20-second pox that's going to be held next week. We've insisted on this over and over again on legislation, and we're doing it again today with a proposal that bets on a stable tariff system. Something that is perfectly possible, because it has already existed in the Spanish State and exists in other countries of the European environment. It's also a demand from the sector. We understand that there is another issue that is fundamental, and connected to this we know that next week there will be a pause of interruption. We know that we have been moving in this system for a year and a half, and we — we insist — have brought this proposal to parliament several times, that there is a table where this is evaluated. Recently, the Galician Union finally called for a table with the sector, but we understand that a fundamental foot is still missing: we cannot move forward on that table without the social part. That's why we asked point 3 for its incorporation. And this must also be linked to making proposals and moving forward towards that fundamental issue that concerns us so much, which is another industrial policy, because it is worrying about the absence of industrial policy. And in the case of Alcoa it's paradigmatic how for many years this company received millions and millions of the public era and nobody checked that it was doing the necessary modernization. We understand that we have to turn it around, we have to change the current system of interruption for an industrial tariff system that is stable in time, which has predictable variations for electrointensive power supply, but not in return for nothing. We understand that there are three conditions that have to go from the public domain that must be vigilant: first of all, the obligation to make investments to modernise their productive structure, also the obligation to maintain jobs and, of course, through an industrial development plan that must be monitored from the public authorities. Because, on the other hand, to allocate public resources, money from everyone's pocket, and all without receiving anything in return is a real misrepresentation of the public era, which we understand cannot be prolonged in time. We understand that this is a good starting point, if we all agree, to open a debate on this issue which cannot continue to be welcomed without saying, because — we insist — Alcoa is the urgency but the important thing is also all that can come behind and what framework we want to give. Finally, we understand that we cannot also follow blind to the fact that our country is a producing power. And we insist that it seems unacceptable to us that in a Galician that exports every year on average about thirty-five percent of energy there are companies that will close for the price of electricity. So we have one more example to combine the state forces with the reflection of this. Finally, Mr President, today we are bringing forward proposals for the urgency of the Alcoa issue, to develop the previous agreements that are about to be concluded almost a month after they are taken, to lift the veto to public intervention, but also to look at the future, to go to the substantive proposals, because we have to bet on another framework that gives our industry more stability. Today we are prepared to seek consensus, to seek that unity which is so much proclaimed, but of course not from conformityism, because our conscience does not allow us to see how it progresses in the deindustrialization of Galicia while we do not think about substantive issues...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u132	...to turn him around. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u134	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try not to insult anyone, but this morning a member of this government said textually that the members of the opposition used absurd data of a bar commentary. Unfortunately, the Presidency, which is the one who runs the debate — and I am fully aware — said nothing, because it seemed to you that this clearly dignified the Galician Parliament. At least, Members and Members of the Socialist Group used statistical data and did not lie in this Chamber. I think it's appropriate to clarify this because, in any case... [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And then again, I have to admit another surprise: today no one spoke to this chamber about the governments of the most voted lists or the loser coalitions. It doesn't happen to me very well why it will be, but the truth is I missed it, because it seemed to me a relevant topic to discuss politically after listening to it here since 2009.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u135	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u136	When they leave me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u137	Easy, Abel. Anything else? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u138	I think I'm very much in political terms and also intellectuals to open up this kind of intergroup debate. We're talking about electricity, exactly. We weren't talking about bars when we were talking about fishing. Precisely... coloquial is also this. [[The President said words that were not understood.]] President, I'm not... [[The President said words that were not understood.]] The truth is, Mrs. Presas, that I also had that Mafalda sketch of urgency and the important one. And I believe that it is indeed very urgent to solve the problem of Alcoa without any doubt, and it is also important, especially important for families and for workers who are directly affected by an extinct ERA. But it's also very important that new regulation of the electricity market that the Government of Spain is trying to move forward. And I would ask the Galician Nationalist Block a dose of confidence and patience, because I think it's worth it. It is worth it after, indeed, these pauses, which have clearly failed as energy and industrial policy in the electrointensive industries, have been promoted by the governments of Mr. Aznar and Mr. Rajoy. And, of course, they were clearly unsatisfactory in solving the problems of this kind of industry. I said yesterday to the government delegate that there is a party, that there is a negotiating margin to prevent the closure of this factory. I want to keep the positive. Today, there is an interview by the Under-Secretary of Industry of the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Trade, in which he actually talks about these issues. It even recognizes something unusual on the right, because, of course, I have never heard it in the four years of government for the leaders of the People's Party in the Government of Spain, which is the cooperation of the autonomous governments of both Asturias and Galicia. There's no doubt that we have to work on this issue. We believe that it is appropriate to keep that common minimum, that it is convenient for the political signal coming out of here to be a joint signal. It is true that time is getting less and, therefore, the needs of political input are becoming more and more perennial, but in any case it seems to me that it would be important to facilitate consensus. It's true that the initiative is not mine, it's not mine, but of course, I would like to, and the Socialist Group would like us to make an effort among all of us, in an initiative in which there are amendments from all groups, to reach at least that common minimum. And it is true that I asked for that patience, Mrs. Presas, because, indeed, if you are trying to do things. All that has not been done in six years and which, of course, has a lot of difficulty when — as we say in some way — fits. We understand that what has been done from the impulse to self-consumption, the protection of vulnerable consumers and a decrease is true that temporary and partial — we will see how it develops — the prices of light go in the right line. And, of course, we need stability and confidence in electro-intensive investors. And the Government of Spain has recognized it this way and has expressed its commitment to try. And I would -- I insist -- ask that kind of help. Anyway, I was once told here that once the Socialist Party had ruled in Madrid, it wouldn't talk about the profits of the electricity companies. I'll keep talking: they're still scandalously tall. It is true that in the first nine months of 2018 Pedro Sánchez was not president of the Government, or not in the whole of the nine, but electricity companies continue to grow. Its benefits are rates that are not sustainable in political terms and in terms of citizenship, especially when demand is practically frozen. So that's all it means is that if you're increasing, there's no relevant investments, the demand is frozen, the benefits are increased -- that means the prices are rising in an unexplainable way. So this is the position of the Socialist Group. We have tabled a general amendment, in which we understand that this parliament must, of course, legitimately ask the Government of Spain, — I insist — legitimately to the Government of Spain, but we also understand that efforts must be made to the Government of Greece. And coming from a nationalist party, I'm surprised he didn't urge the Galician Union to anything relevant. So, I think the Galician Union, that in the memory of budgets there are powers in energy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u140	...—Finished, Mr President—very relevant, you will probably have something to say. And the issue of energy is a very important, strategic issue in economic and social terms, and we should all make a commitment to respect the truth. Even when a member of this chamber goes to Vigo Council say that social energy aid plans are exclusively for one or two months. Obviously...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u142	...they have no representation in the Vigo Town Hall...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u143	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u144	They probably had the information wrong. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u145	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u146	Good afternoon to all and to all. We've also talked about this subject several times. In fact, at the last meeting of the 6th Commission on Industry, it also spoke and suggested that the unit of action must be maintained, that we cannot break the unit of action of the declaration made here and of the non-law proposal approved unanimously there are two plenary sessions. Keeping the unit of action, yes, but whenever it helps to advance in the solution of the conflict. Otherwise we will have to arrive at new agreements that bring new elements in order to convince Alcoa company that we are not going in the right direction, and make it very clear that it cannot make unilateral decisions. This is what strong governments would do. And this is neither communism nor Bolivarianism. Let us, and forgive ourselves, President, for this is not of interest to you to speak to the citizen in these terms, because this does not bring anything. That's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] And we give real answers to the concerns of the Alcoa workers and the entire Greek citizenship. The way we really have to work is with strong government approaches in the face of multinational pressures. And that's neither communism nor Bolivarianism, nor anything. We must do as they did, for example, the governments of France and Italy at their own time in similar situations. And as we have to move forward, we're going to make an assessment of what we've approved two plenary sessions, see if you've really had any answers from the company and from the governments involved: Withdrawal from the file. Of course, this was not achieved. Yes, it was possible that the multinational had suspended the layoffs until December 27. I mean, they're there; we're not in the next round. And he could even give another fifteen days' leave, he talks from January 15th, he goes on to negotiate properly; that is, if the workers, the committees behave well and definitely pray to negotiate the terms of layoffs, which is what they want. The workers are asking for greater expansion. I think that this Parliament would also have to come out with an explicit statement that the Galician Parliament supports the requests of the works committees for a longer period of time in order to be able to negotiate. Point 2 said what we approved here: "Setting the necessary and urgent mechanisms to prevent plants from entering technical stops." Well, what mechanisms have been developed for two weeks now that we've approved this? The only novelty is the summons of a new pause, which begins on the 10th until the 14th, but leaving it practically as it was left by the previous government. There is virtually no novelty and, of course, the main novelty that has also been approved in this parliament is not incorporated: that all these new tips are conditioned by job maintenance and technological update. Let's see if they talk to their government, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, so that what is approved here in the Galician Parliament is also incorporated into the provisions that are approved in Madrid. On the other hand, the implementation of the one hundred and fifty million euro budget share was not launched. What are they waiting for? And, above all, it is not made clear to Alcoa that a monopolistic and strategic industry in Spain, like that of aluminium, will not be allowed to close, as it is essential for the development of many other industries: aeronautics, automobiles, extrusion, etc., which generates thousands and thousands of jobs. And you know what this means, it's called asking for the Spanish Constitution to be applied. And that's what a strong government would do, not a communist government or a Bolivarian, a strong government. Then create a table with all the parties involved. Alcoa has called today precisely once again the workers and finally suggests that he is willing to meet in the coming days — even this week — with the Government of the State. Let us hope that the Council of Galicia, as approved also in this parliament, is present at that meeting, and is present in an active manner, not as it was in the previous one, that the information that comes to us is that it has a completely passive attitude. The Galician Union has a lot to talk about there, because it has a lot of competences; it doesn't have to say that we have no competences, but there are a lot of competences. For example, there are a lot of environmental skills that affect the huge Alúmina plant in San Cibrao, which reports to Alcoa millions and millions of benefits every year. Well, that plant has to renew its environmental demands. Well, the Galician Union would have a lot to say there. It can't be that negative externalities are left like Alúmina's plant does, and positive externalities, like keeping the job, going to the other side. That's what a strong government would do, too. Then, on the other hand, we also approved here that the meetings would be on the social side and the business side. Well, the Galician Union is meeting only the companies for now. I don't know if it's ideology or what it is, but that's failing to meet what was approved in this parliament as well. Then there are other points, which are further, such as changes in electrical regulation, monitoring the entry of the outer metal through Spanish ports, because this is what Alcoa wants. Alcohol wants to stay with the market, close the aluminum factories, stay with Alúmina, which is immensely profitable, and keep controlling the Spanish market, as it does at this moment almost monopolistically.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u147	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u148	Just a second. Alcoa himself two years ago made a report to Goldman Sachs. And Goldman Sachs told him that there were six companies very interested in buying the factories of the Coruña and Alcoa, and that report was hidden. Because Alcoa, what does he not want? He doesn't want competition in Spain. Let's not let him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u149	Thank you, Mr. Casal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u150	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I don't know where to start anymore. Mr. Casal, those who want to shut down industries or businesses are you, not us. Don't come... anyway, this group and the Government of the Union are not going to let companies shut down, what they're not willing to do is intervene companies, as is done in countries where democracy shines by their absence, Mr. Casal. [[Protests.]] [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Losada, the truth is, you only think of yourself. Of course, in the previous initiative it was said here that we didn't report waste companies because we were part of their business. That's normal for you. That's normal for you. And put the cry in the sky because... please! Look, Mrs. Presas, in order to disguise her, who try to hide behind the pain of a problem as serious as that of Alcoa, the closure of a company, her systematic mantras: the Greek fare, and yet on top of it they unite to intervene companies. Madam Presas, we and this group have defended the unity that we have achieved from the beginning; a unity that has been reflected between two autonomous communities, the Galician and the Principality of Asturias, a unity above political colors, a unity between administrations and workers and even a unit transmitted from the European Union, both from the Community Executive and from the various European Parliamentary groups. He will agree with me that the effort of consensus between all the protagonists and all this conflict has reached a low level previously seen. First of all, I wanted to start by showing once again the solidarity of the People's Group and, of course, of the Government of Unity with the workers of Alcohol and their families. The priority of all of us is the maintenance of employment. And we understand the uncertainty that pervades all of them, and maximum on the dates that are coming. The Government of the Union continues to struggle for dialogue and, of course, for workers to sit on a negotiating table, which continue to demonstrate their sense of responsibility, understanding that only through consensus and constructive proposals can solutions be found. Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, I insist: consensus and constructive proposals. And secondly, I'm going to figure out very much about the agreements made in this parliament, since October 22, which was when Alcoa company announced the closure of the plants of Coruña and Avilés: In the middle of that same week of October 23, the People's Group brought an initiative related to the electro-intensive industry, which was not from Alcoa, but when the conflict arose in the previous days, since it unanimously agreed on a compromise proposal, which basically called for the withdrawal of ERE and the guarantee of employment, the establishment of a negotiating table between all political, economic and social agents, in addition to the imminent launch of the compensatory aid of EUR 200 million from the budget for 2018, and linking all this to the maintenance of employment. That agreement took place on Tuesday the plenary, and on Wednesday an institutional statement from all parliamentary groups was adopted. Later, in the middle of November 6, Mr Villoslada brought an initiative, in which a unanimous agreement was also reached, which supported the proposal for continuity of the aluminium plants of the Coruña and Avilés, presented by the Alcohol Committee before the Government Delegation on October 30th. Next, in the Commission 6th of 22 November, the BNG and En Marea groups presented each one initiative, in which agreements were made and again voted on the withdrawal of the ERE, a negotiating table with the partners and the launch of the one hundred and fifty million euros. If they've been following me, we've already approved the same agreements on numerous occasions. In short, we approved an initiative by each of the parliamentary groups in this chamber. I therefore insist, ladies and gentlemen, that we should return to unity, then to the path of unity and not break the agreements taken in this parliament. That is what you want, ladies and gentlemen: to break a unanimous agreement taken in this parliament. So, Mr. President, the truth, ladies and gentlemen, what gives the feeling is that here some groups are trying to do a partisan struggle, pull out a piece of political revenue with such an important theme and use the pain of the workers of a company that will close imminently. Therefore, whitening failed proposals, gentlemen of the BNG and the tides of Podemos. It gives you the feeling that you're interested in conflict. The truth is that it is to speak in no way by putting forward proposals that will be illegal both in our country and in Europe. They know that you can't impose a specific stable industrial tariff on industries; you can't, you won't pass the filters of the European Union. In fact, they were already that kind of help before, and they changed because they didn't pass the European Union filters. So, back to the past, no, ladies and gentlemen, keep going. And where do we go back? At a Greek fare. You're part of the premise that Galicia is surplus. Then, as it is surplus, we would have to pay less for electricity. But of course, as you're also in favour of closing the thermal power stations, we'll stop being surpluses, and what's going to happen? Then we'll have to import energy. So, as you want us to approve paying more for those who don't have energy, then we'll end up paying more for energy here in Galicia, Mrs. Presas. It's just a bad business. We are not going to support that bad business for all the Greeks; by responsibility, gentlemen. I insist again that we should return to a unanimous agreement. This group presented a simple amendment, while the first point is very similar to itss, which aims to support the writing submitted by the Enterprise Committee. [[Murmurs.]] And we are presenting a second point, which has not been spoken and has not been approved here in this parliament, which is a statute for the electrointensive company, as is done in many of the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u151	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u152	So I hope to go back to the path of unanimous agreements and that we can all present legal and serious proposals for our country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u153	Thank you. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u154	Well, thank Mr. Casal first of all for his constructive intervention and his willingness to speak. And Mr. Losada asked me for patience, and I don't know if it seems to you that I have little patience with what we just heard. In any case, there is a fundamental question: patience and work are not incompatible. And what we want is that the Galician Union debates, consensuals and leads to all negotiations that exist at the state level a position of its own country. We know that it's exotic to those of the People's Party, but as well as now that you're in central government, because they're almost embracing self-government, we wanted to take the opportunity. But it can be seen that they're not going to do that either. What surprises me is that you're coming a little bit, I don't know if it's a part of this group to say that we're not proposing anything relevant to the Galician Union. Man!, of five points, four are for you to work at Galician Union, of five points four. It's true that there are issues that are not inherent competition, but we understand that Galicia must have its own position. I don't know if you were blinded by the lights of Vigo Christmas, but, of course, I think it's quite relevant that there is a table in the intensive industry and that it gives voice to the social part. You've voted in favour of that at other times. And I'd like to see someone from the People's Party explain why he runs away from having the social part in his business dialogues. For something it will be! Anyway. Mrs. Novoa, the problem is that while you make empty appeals to consensus, I was surprised that you had the courage to remember all the agreements that we have reached in this parliament, when they are failing. Because it's already shown that even when we give in and reach some consensus, because you should get out of this room to get the deal and put it in a corner and use dirty paper to take notes, because a little bit more. But as time runs out, and it'll get there on December 27, the problem is that there are equally four hundred families that eat the grapes in unemployment, Mrs. Novoa. That's the problem. Interpreting companies. Of course, I love it, and just this week that you're fantasizing about the anniversary of the Constitution. And it'll still be that we're the only ones who read it! Article 128(2), Mrs Novoa, of the Spanish Constitution. [[Applause]] It's just... Please! [[Laughter]] Then you come to lay charges here with tears of crocodile...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u155	Quiet, the amendments. There are three amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u156	...that if the pain of the workers, which I don't know, and depose that Galicia as a producer should have some benefit. The problem is that with you, Mrs Novoa, we do not have any benefit, is that thanks to the policy of the Galician People's Party it will pay — if that agreement is not met in the past Commission 6a — the most expensive rate in the state and Galicia will pay thirty-eight million euros of that rate of territorial supplements. And you know that of these thirty-eight million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u157	Amendments, amendments, there are three amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u158	...—and I finish the sentence and finish it, Mr President—Alcoa could pay about seven million euros. That's your Greek fare, Mrs. Novoa, the oldest fee there can be. It's just that they're a little...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u159	The amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u160	We're not going to accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u161	None?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u162	None. For the sake of consensus and for everyone to retire, we will allow the vote by points, but logically the amendments of the People's Party, which do not approach anything at all, because if they are so similar to the wordings, they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u163	Thank you. G.P. motion. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the provision of human resources and materials of emergency services of hospitals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u164	This motion is amended by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of his colleague Julio Torrado Quintela, through his spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Additional amendment.A new paragraph should be added to the resolution part of the motion with the following content:" Take the recommendations indicated and published by SEMES-Galicia, and publicly facilitate the records of the indicators established to assess the functioning of the emergency services of the Galician hospitals."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u165	To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u166	Thank you, President. For the situation of emergencies in the clinic, at the continuing points of attention and the rest of the Galego Health Service is the thermometer of the serious situation of the public health system, which day and day is also news unfortunately, although not as much as should for all the work that is leading to the mobilization of many and many of our health professionals, despite the fact that the Health Council is deafening to the complaints of the professionals, essentially of lack of sufficient staff in the services. And this situation and this emergency problem that we say, which is a thermometer of the serious health system situation, that serious health system situation is not of course a slogan, it's not a mantra, it's not a sentence made, it's the felt reality of the workers and workers of the different services, of the professionals. Last week I was with a partner whom I worked with, with one of those people we had included in that work plan that the People's Party didn't seem worthy of these people coming into the investigation commission, because although some of them like my partner have thirty years of work in a service, for the People's Party had nothing to say or contribute to a commission that talked about cuts in the public health system. And that's exactly why this commission is outraged, and that's why we're not participating in it. Well, that fellow, that professional was excited, she was moved to tears, talking about the terrible situation they have in their service, and which unfortunately is not alien to many other services. When there is a transfer contest — as it is going to happen now — many professionals are asking for the transfer of one service to another because no one can stand, no one supports the situation they have in their particular service. Unfortunately, on many occasions Iranians for another service that has a very similar situation, because, unfortunately, staff shortages are already virtually transversal to most of the public health system. That situation causes a lot of suffering, so these people get excited, so these people have to express the situation they have, unfortunately, sometimes with indignation because they're not being heard. They suffer because they want to give better attention and they don't have any material means or human resources to be able to afford it. They also suffer because they don't have a possible reconciliation of their family and work life, and we're seeing it in those allegations that fellows and companions of the continuing attention points, forced to do hours and to keep guards, though, of course, they should also have a chance to reconcile with their personal life. They also suffer because they feel despised, because there is no one — not here in the blue chair — at the Health Council to listen to their demands, to hear the cry that in many services you cannot continue to provide health care in these conditions. Companions of the Emergency Service of the University Hospital Complex of Santiago de Compostela have been on strike for almost a month — a month! — which is said soon. A month off with an attempt to silence them, a month off with an attempt to divide them and even despise them, but they failed. One month off with at least one hundred percent. And two months already, too, since the continued attention points began their strike claiming professionals to pay better attention. All right, it's very good to follow the staff strike in Andalusia — especially when there were elections — or in Catalonia; we support these demands from health professionals. But it would also be good if you looked at the health personnel on strike in Galicia, because unfortunately our situation is no better than in those autonomous communities than those professionals who protested about their working conditions. The increase in frequency of emergency services — and we have talked about it on other occasions — is, of course, very related to chronicity and, of course, to aging, and we have commented on it here, essentially, and also in the Committee on Health and Social Policy. But it's also very intensively related to cuts in primary care and hospital care. We have health centers -- and this week we go back to other health centers to talk to more -- with professionals who support the amount of daily consultations that go through the 50s, the 50s, the 60s -- and professionals who recognize that they don't have time to do the housework properly because, unfortunately, they have so many people in the consultation, in the center themselves, that they would like, but they can't give that attention properly. And when people can't be cared for and there's seven days, eight days, ten days in some health centers — as we already know and as we've already spoken on other occasions — what happens is that the frequency of emergency services increases in both the CAP and hospitals. And we also have insufferable waiting lists for tests and queries. We were talking to some professionals the other day and told us that the situation was practically unbearable for some people, because for Traumatology consultations we're talking about a year's waiting, for Ophthalmology consultations we're talking about nine months or ten months and for Cardiology consultations we're talking about year and a half. We're talking about situations in which people are experiencing a deterioration in their high health because of the delay. We're talking about these people, when these appointments can't be brought forward, when there's a deterioration, when they're worried, when they get worse before they're seen, when they can't get ahead of that situation, they're also responding to the emergency services. And, therefore, the complete deterioration of the health system causes, precisely, many people to end up in the hospital. And once in the hospital and once in that service, what's the matter? There are delays to climb, to derive revenue from plants. We have spoken about it on other occasions: we have closed plants, such as in the Coruña, as in Salnès — we have spoken about it the other day in the Health Committee — or in Compostela. Fixing the situation of Compostela's emergencies and also those of the other services is not opening two more boxes, it's not opening a room anymore. To fix the situation that the emergencies have is, of course, to put more professionals in order to be able to take on the workload, to open closed plants, to increase the staff of the rest of the public health system — the increase of staff is absolutely essential — is also to draft a protocol for income to speed up these processes, to sit down with the professionals — as they are claiming — to draw up a functional plan within the service. And, of course, what it is, directly, is to listen to the demands of the professionals, something that is not being done. Health health is being managed in our country in an absolutely disastrous way: there has been no planning for the MIR for so many years, or for many years, or for nursing, and we now say that there are no professionals; there is not being been hired in our country in a stable way; therefore, professionals are not engaged in an absolutely disastrous way and therefore they are going, and then we say that there are no professionals; there are no professionals; there are no casualties and holidays; there are not covered for many years, and therefore, they are moving the professionals from one service to another, and we now say that there are no professionals in our country; there are no professionals; there are no casualties in the PAC; there are no problems in the 061, there are no drug shortages and there are therefore they move professionals from one service to another, leaving absolutely essential services in a hospital, and therefore there are no professionals in the hospital; there are no medical problems in our country, there are no professionals, there are no drugs and no drugs are currently under the forum of the Forum of Accounts Council, there is there is no longer the forum and we have the use the other, we have the following us, we have the job and we have the job, we have the job and we have the job and we have the job and we have the job and we have the job, and we have a job and we have a job, we have the job, we have the job, we have the job and we have the job and we have the job and we have the job, and we have the job and we have the job, and we have the job, and we have the job and we have the job, and we have, and we have the job and we have the job and we have the job, and we have the job and we have, and we have the job, and we have, and we are using, and we are using, and we are using, we are using, and we are using, and we are using, and we are using, and we are using, and we are using, and we are using, we are using, and we are using, and we are using, and we are using, and we are using, and we are using, and we are using, and we are using, and we are using, and we are using, and we are using, and we are using, and we are using, and we are using, and We consider that the management of this meeting and, of course, of the council of Mr. Almuña makes absolutely water. And we can't keep waiting, this doesn't dissolve with more resignations in the Compostela Emergency Service. Mr. Núñez Feijóo said it a couple of weeks ago — and we commented on the interpellation I defended myself in this plenary—: He suggested by that then to the clinic's management that he would meet or explain the demands of the professionals. Unfortunately, Mrs. Núñez — she called her by name if anyone bothers — is not responding to the demands of the professionals. And the reality is that we have people who have to be on strike for a month to claim to be able to give minimally correct attention to the people who go through the Emergency Service. It is insufficient what is being proposed and, of course, professionals are not being cared for. We want and ask in this motion to address the problem of health that affects the emergencies of the Clinic and the rest of the emergency services as a whole; to increase the professional staff in emergency services, both in primary and hospital services, on a permanent basis; to open up these closed plants — we say at the time: we cannot have more closed services while there are patients in the corridors, see Salnes, see Compostela; to establish protocols for assistance to people pending income—the emergency professionals have proposals that have long been trying to implement and transfer to the agencies and, from the outset, are not being listened to; to the urgent increase in staff holidays demanded in the CHUS emergencies, and, of course, to develop a functional plan for the proper functioning of the services. The professionals won't get tired, and as they already know their lordships and echoes in the media — already finished — they're already planning to close, as the professionals of the continuing attention points are doing; not only in Andalusia, they don't just happen in Catalonia. Mr. Almuínña's counsellor makes water and Mr. Feijóo takes no note, and nothing is being done at all. We want them to take the global problem we have in public health seriously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u168	Thank you, President. Well, our group will support this initiative, and we have tabled an amendment which I will explain, although, regardless of what is decided on the amendment, it will count on our support. It is an initiative that brings back questions on which we have already discussed on numerous occasions, and we continue to debate on the cuts in the system. There is some progress on this issue in debates, and it must be acknowledged that since the People's Party, the existence of cuts is no longer discussed; the debate is being raised in terms of whether the cuts affect or affect or even, in terms of which the People's Party itself uses, whether the cuts kill or not. Of course, it's good to know that the People's Party doesn't deny cuts. When we consider this debate, therefore, we are now discussing the consequences of these cuts and therefore that is a certain step. [[Applause]] The consequences of these cuts are also, in terms of sometimes sad, to attend some debates or the absence of debates when there are dangerous issues about the cuts, when questions are raised such as how to consider terminally ills very expensive, and in addition, when the People's Party is not even able to have any contradiction or to show any discrepancy when it hears such a statement: that terminally ills are very expensive. The truth is that sometimes it is very difficult to raise any debate. And in these terms where we're talking about clippings, what is, therefore, transferring those clippings to the real services? In this case, those of the E.R., who are those who refer primarily to this initiative. In particular, he focuses very much on the emergencies of the Santiago Clinic, today too, sadly, on the news of the ongoing strike. But what do the clippings mean in emergencies? In emergencies there is a problem, which it exploits in emergencies, but which is not an emergency problem -- normally, almost all the problems of every hospital center have a door to teach through emergencies, but they're not exactly the service -- it's a problem given by the saturation of hospitals themselves, by the absence of beds to enter, and therefore patients must stay in emergencies. There is a problem of work stress that, in the case of emergencies, is more serious because of the condition and type of work they do, with real risks to professionals. We're exploiting professionals in a way and we're not taking into account the possibilities we have of real risks to the health of professionals themselves. We are already facing a problem that no one is paying attention from the council itself. In general terms, the cuts also make the staff — when they are cuts in working terms — to go away, to go away and to consider — as professionals consider, in majority terms — that Sergas is one of the autonomic systems that treats their professionals the worst. It should be remembered — only by giving a data — that since Feijóo governs less than fifteen percent of this country's MIR graduates are hired in a stable way in Sergas; less than fifteen percent of the medical professionals we have titled and trained for nine or ten years are hired in a stable way. Even though it's only for one question of economic loss of all that training, it would be minimally efficient and minimally intelligent to incorporate them into the system. This causes real effects: we have the CHUS problem, where we heard two weeks ago — three weeks maximum — the counselor said that the service was perfectly equipped; a week later there was a staff offer. I don't know if he wasn't so perfectly gifted, or if he's still perfectly gifted, you have to pay attention to generosity and still make offers. Perfectly gifted to make an offer, a scarf offer which the professionals, of course, refused. [[Applause]] But there are more services in which emergencies are quite serious: here's the case of Salnes, where six patients spent almost forty-eight hours in E.R. because there was a third plant available but there's no staff to work on it. So that's a center where TV shows are rolling, but the sick can't get in. And we have cases like what happened with a senior lady, who's been waiting hours and hours in the lobby of the center of Montecelo with a possible case of tuberculosis and, even without knowing whether or not she was, she's been waiting in the lobby next to the door. This is the system we're in. When there's a cut in material and personnel, we have this problem of not taking care of all the staff. We talk about hours, we talk about forty-eight hours waiting, and we can remember that the standards of the ministry mark up to four hours of waiting in an Emergency Service. They multiply here by ten, by eleven, by twelve, by thirteen standards, and it seems nothing happens. We, as we say, are going to support this initiative and, in addition, we are presenting an amendment which we believe can contribute to a certain extent, which goes in line with what professional groups are proposing, in this case, which refers to doctors specializing in emergencies, who speak of a report presented before the board that talks about various recommendations: setting criteria and indicators, meeting them and drawing up reports that put them on public matters. To report on indicators with data and to offer them publicly; absolutely revolutionary, if they had to attend any debate of this parliament. We already know it's a Bolivarian thing, probably, but reporting with data is a pretty interesting thing. And we believe that if you always say that you have to attend to professionals, this is a good time to attend to professionals -- in this case of Semes, who did that good work -- and you could be included in this initiative to know if you can have reports, not because we ask you to oppose them,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u169	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u170	...but because they're asked by the professionals, who, after all, health care professionals will know something about the health system, saving the People's Party to come here and say no, because all the people don't know is what the People's Party says. But we hope the amendment will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u171	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u172	So we have to insist that there is a need for staff in sufficient numbers, in working conditions and with decent wages. And this, which seems to be an obvious thing, seems that for the Government of the People's Party it is not so much, because nine years of the People's Party's government have assumed a setback in working conditions, loss of rights, precariousness, a policy of back turned to professionals, deaf ears, pre-eminence, order and command, imposition... and every day more are the professionals they're saying: until here I came and this is unsustainable. As much as the People's Party tries, it's not possible to cover the moon with a finger: the CAP professionals, the CHUS emergency professionals, the Salnés Hospital professionals... we can keep listing and we'll get out a pretty long list. The debate of the Sergas staff — the depreciation of squares, the precarious recruitment — is a debate that we systematically bring here, to this parliament, in demand for action, but we systematically meet the People's Party wall. We have an inadequate health system of staff, with an important part of what you have in a situation of work insecurity. The data are teimud, just as the People's Party insists on twisting the data and attempting to transfer a reality that doesn't correspond to the everyday life of professionals, who have to try to get that reality out of Galician public health. And if the Welsh and Welsh people don't perceive with greater intensity the consequences of all the measures they've been implementing, it's because of the good doing of these professions and the volunteerism they put into their work. Some professionals who feel none, despised, mistreated, who come one day if and another to their exhausted home, desperate because they work at the limit of their forces. And with this, I'm not, of course, describing a particular situation of a person or two, but unfortunately, I'm describing the situation of every day more and more professionals, I'm describing the situation that is becoming the reality of the vast majority of the professionals in public health. A reality that the CAP professionals, reaching the limit, have made manifest by initiating mobilizations at the beginning of this year 2018, in confidence that, by transferring this reality from a written proposal to Sergas, putting it in writing and transferring it to Sergas to negotiate that proposal, they would be able to study, analyze, with indisputable data. They believed, for their part, that Sergas would sit down to analyze that proposal to move forward in solutions, and it found, months later, that nothing further than reality. Months later, they've been on strike for almost a month, they've made closures, and it's found in total insensitivity on the part of the People's Party, after these professionals had shown total collaboration, a total assumption of trying to get ahead, in very extreme conditions, their work. Just as in the CHUS Emergency Service, who had been denouncing the situation for years, who also tried to negotiate, transfer their demands to all kinds of leadership and administrations, and who are also found with the fence of the People's Party and Sergas. Or -- I insist -- at the Salnés Hospital, which already has a limited situation moving the situation and finding out about the fence of the People's Party and Sergas. BNG will support this initiative. Let's also keep bringing demands here to this parliament, because, of course, silence is obviously not the solution; the Greek people have to know what's going on, because silence makes us complicit. And it's clear that the professionals have said this far and they're not going to follow a silence that only makes the People's Party try to impose a story that more and more Greek and Greek no longer buy them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u174	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. Again, Mrs. Solla, we're going to talk about emergencies, a strike at Santiago University Hospital, which we all hope will be better solved today than tomorrow. We have recently heard in this same gallery the Health Counsellor, who told us that in the emergency services of the community every day seven thousand cases, seven thousand emergencies, of which three thousand are served in the emergency services of hospitals. He also told us about the degree of satisfaction of the population, and this is high: there are six points above average. Too bad you shouldn't be doing things, Mrs. Solla. You bring data, daily talk... Journal of the Americas: "Sixty-four hospitals have been closed in Cuba in the last eight years". The Voice of Galicia this week: waiting list to operate in Spain, ninety-three days; in Galicia, sixty days. Of course, for the opposition, everything is chaos and everything is wrong to do, but the data are what they are. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, have some respect for the Greek health. We are currently in full negotiation of the workers with management. It's a negotiation that's not exempt from tensions, like all the negotiations, but you know that an important increase has been offered in the number of optionals — sweet — which has not yet been accepted. And in addition to all this, it also coincides with functional restructuring in the CHUS Emergency Service. Emergency services are services where tension breathes daily. They give patients in a state of gravity, and they need to be given an answer and a solution to their processes at the right time. Fortunately, we count on our health in terms of excellence, well-trained, prepared to receive them at the entrance door of hospitals and all emergency services, and we have no doubt of the great responsibility they bear every day. But, Mrs. Solla, you cannot land everything that is being done since the Galician Health Service. Look: I'm not going to repeat them, because we all listen to the data that the advisor gave us here about human and material resources, the improvements and expansions that have been made in recent years in the emergency services of all the Greek hospitals. Besides, it's easy to hit, they're there to see him. He worked with several service managers to create protocols for the attention of various pathologies where delay in care can be vital, such as myocardial infarction, stroke, and the last one that started, which was the sepsis code. So as far as the Emergency Service of the University Hospital Complex of Santiago is concerned, I'm not going to come in and give more figures. This was the reason for earlier debates; there's a lot of debate, and we've all seen the other day in the sixth person who's been working on the service for 20 years with a bundle of contracts, but we all know that there were six OPs through which we could all introduce ourselves. I just want to repeat — because it cannot be alarmed, opposition gentlemen — that the CHUS Emergency Service is equipped, both in professional terms and in material resources, to provide urgent assistance that patients demand with appropriate quality and safety standards. At Santiago University Hospital the average time of attendance since the patient entered the door until he was cared for by a doctor, in 2017 it was forty-seven minutes. We have to tell the whole truth. That everything can be better? Yeah. That everything's better? Also, and on that way, of course, they'll always find us. But, as I told you before, it's in full negotiation. There was an offer from the management of the hospital of twelve more workers for the Emergency Service, but it was not accepted by the workers. Hospital emergency services have to be flexible, able to adapt to changes, and this is only possible through appropriate organizational decisions at different levels and times. When there is an increase in demand, an adaptation of the assistance model is made to ensure attention to all patients accessing these devices. The Galego Health Service has contingency plans that collect the planning of the actions to be carried out in the various centers. Mrs Solla, we hope that this strike conflict will be resolved as soon as possible and that both the workers and the company — by the way — that they defend the interests of all the Greeks — will come to an understanding in which no one will be harmed. Because, Mrs Solla, at last, here all parts are important, but let's not forget that the most vulnerable and that we all have to bear in mind above all is that of the patients. Just one thing, Mr. Torrado: you have the chance to come to the Health Research Committee, just like the whole opposition. It's a proposal from all of you and you have abandoned it; you could come, listen, and debate with the experts who come to her. And, Mrs. Prado, the Greek people speak; you have spoken. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Author group of the motion, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u176	Thank you, President. We appreciate the support of the opposition groups. We're going to accept the amendment because, obviously, it's never too much to ask for data, although it's quite obvious that the usual thing is that they don't make it easy on this camera, but we won't be tired of asking for data and, of course, planning in line with them. Well, we agree with something: the most important are the sick people, Mrs. Friend, and the problem is that it is the unprotected people who always pay the broken dishes of lack of sufficient staff. These are the people who are defending professionals when they mobilize. It is not enough to wait until the strike is resolved without more; the strike is not solved by spontaneous generation. And I'm telling you more: ten years ago, professionals are claiming improvements in service, but basically a year and a half ago, in which these improvements are almost perennial. We have already explained to you here — several directors of Assistance Processes before, because I don't know how many people resigned in the service anymore — that professionals had already moved in a rather grim way — a proportion, with comparison to other centers, with a file, and if you had adopted an act in an minutes which were the needs of the service, recognized by the then director of Assistance Processes. And, fundamentally, of course, medical professionals are needed, we argue that what was offered is absolutely insufficient, but basically, there is a problem with the absence of nursing staff, both nurses and nurses and sufficient auxiliary techniques in the service. What happens when there are only a few professionals is that people fall in love with emergency services without proper attention. We have already told you here, on another occasion, that professionals have not at any time denied the restructuring of the service, but that the staff needs were needed before the restructuring of the service. And after the restructuring of the service, more personnel are needed, because if you want to work as a team -- which is very good -- you have to have complete personnel and equipment to be able to provide that service. Obviously, it is not enough to physically extend emergency services; if there is no staff for that service, work cannot be done. I've read it to you on one occasion: the data that you give of frequency and time of attention are not real, and on one occasion the medical professionals of the service have written to us telling us and asking us to change counsellors, because the data they give are not absolutely real. The number of people that should be taken care of in the time frame, that is, there are more people to meet the levels both the II and the III — the orange and the yellow — and the green and the blue — the IV and the V — and you cannot pay attention to these conditions. So they tell us and say in a letter -- and I'm finished already -- they say: in this Hospital Santiago Clinic we're moving between thirteen and seventeen patients at level II and III by seven-hour shifts, and between eighteen and thirty patients at level IV and V, far above what international bibliography indicates. And of course there's not enough staff to take care of that situation. The strikes — and I am finished now — are not solved by spontaneous generation; we must put human and material means, both here and at the points of continuous attention, and of course that is not being done in most of our services. Mr. Almuña should take note and I don't know whether to sit down once and for all to resolve the number of conflicts you have throughout the Health Council. But, of course, in the case of the Clinic's emergencies, the staff being offered is clearly insufficient to pay that attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the performances to be carried out by the Italian Government in relation to the working conditions of women who work cleaning floors, hotels and apartments
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u178	Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group have been tabled. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of her colleague Patricia Otero Rodríguez, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendments to this motion.Additional amendment.Additional amendment.The following text should be added to the resolution in point A(3): "The part of stability in employment must also be evaluated in the framework.".Amendment of modification.The text of points 1, 2 and 3 of point B of the resolution shall be replaced by the following:"1. By increasing the number of inspectors and labour inspectors and social security in Galicia, in line with the plan for a decent job approved by the Government of the State. As well as inspections carried out in the tourism sector that affect workers' conditions.2. If the process of analysing the working conditions of the sector is to enable early retirement to be recognised on the basis of the exceptionally heavy, toxic, dangerous or unhealthy nature, for workers in the tourist sector of hotels and hostels.3. The most damaging parts of the work reform of 2012 are repealed."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Ms. Cristina Romero Fernández, through her spokesperson and in the light of Rule 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits the following amendment to this motion before the Bureau.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution should be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1. Request from the Government of the State to continue the study and the measures it is taking in relation to the working conditions in the tourism housing sector and particularly in hotels, incorporating the gender perspective.2. To encourage social dialogue between employers and trade unions to improve the quality of employment in the tourism sector, with particular emphasis on potential groups at risk for gender prejudice.3. Meeting with representatives of the tourism sector, setting up a specific working group on gender, which promotes measures in the field of awareness-raising, training and the application of recruitment criteria that protect at-risk groups.4. To request the Government of the State to strengthen the plan for the inspection of working conditions in the tourism sector at the expense of the Plan Director for Dignified Work."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u179	To formulate the motion, Mrs. Quinteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u180	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Today we are debating a motion as a result of the interpellation we brought in the past full, referring to the workers who clean hotels and hostels — the Kellys. The first thing we have to say is that, at least as far as attitudes are concerned, we believe that the PP has changed a little attitude from the past full to this, that at least amend our motion, and we think that there will be a deal. Because the truth is, we cannot help but mark the inappropriate statement of the counsellor's statements in the previous plenary. We believe that he showed a total lack of empathy and we have to point out that it can't be that in the face of such a obvious reality, that they put the workers themselves on the table — because they were present right here — if they ignore this reality without any kind of potion. It seems totally unacceptable to us that an Employment Counsellor had made the statements he made in the previous plenary. As we have already stated on other occasions, we are talking about a strongly precarious, heavily feminized sector, which has also been seeing a long time since its working conditions have been getting worse progressively, and that the only thing they are demanding are actions decided by the Administration. They demand minimum working conditions worthy of being able to live a life with a minimum dignity. Because we understand that it is not acceptable for a sector like this, so precarious, with situations so difficult to reach often even at the end of the month, in the face of such an unfair situation, there is practically nothing being done. We believe that it is necessary to put an end to the precarious work of these women once and for all. We know — they themselves tell us, and they are visualizing and doing very important work to visualize this situation — that they have endless work days, they have many times hours of restless work, they are often charging for misery — even less than two and a half euros per room —, often have professional diseases derived from the excessive burden of work, they have to endure many totally inappropriate comments in the mutuals — as we have already noted in the past debate, it is true that progress has been made and that at last some of the professional diseases they have suffered have been recognized — and — as I said — they have been seeing too long as this situation is going to worse every day, as every day the situation is more precarious, without any administration taking letters in the matter. That's why we bring this motion today, because we believe that we can't wait any longer, and we hope that from here today comes a first step towards visibility, recognition and for all the measures needed to not live this precarious reality. We believe it's not acceptable that there are so many people, especially so many women, who work and can't reach the end of the month, so many people who work and are poor. That's a reality that's already too wide in our country: more and more people have poor wages, temporary jobs, unstable jobs, and we believe it's totally intolerable. Today we are talking about a sector, a sector that is especially hit not only by the crisis, but is especially hit and invisible for a long time. But it's a reality that's already too broad and -- as my partner often says -- it's already a structural feature of the labour market. And before we come in to talk about the proposal that we bring today and to talk in detail about the points that we have presented, we wanted to send from here all our solidarity and strength to women who are being retaliation and who are being unfairly fired for mobilizing themselves. Today we want to remember especially from a woman who was unjustly fired from the Eurostars Gran Hotel in Compostela, and who tomorrow will mobilize together with many other companions and with many other people who were fired only by mobilising themselves and claiming dignified conditions. [[Applause]] As I say, unfortunately, this is one more example; we have already commented on it: many women report coercion, many women report changes in their job for worse conditions when they require a minimum improvement, many of them do not renew the temporary contract after they appear in a concentration or in a mobilization, many women, unfortunately, cannot again work in that prison when the only one they demand is a minimum wage. We believe that, as I said, the situation is totally unsustainable. Our motion has several paragraphs. On the one hand, we believe that one of the first things to do in this sector — and in general — is to listen to and know the first-hand sector. We believe that it was clear from the counsellor's intervention that the Council of Galicia deeply does not know what is happening in this sector; or, well, it does not know it without any kind of smell. We want to think that you don't know, and that's why our first point is to seek and deepen in the studies on occupational health and occupational safety to thoroughly assess the conditions that are being given at this time in the work of hotels and hostels. We believe it is not acceptable for women — and many witnesses tell us — to work with analgesics. We think it's not an isolated case; it's a situation that's already too general, that happens many times, and we think that we also have to evaluate why this is happening and do a deep study. On the other hand, as I said, we believe it is important to listen to the sector and first-hand to know what their demands are and what their situation is. So one point is to promote social dialogue, because we believe it can't be that employers continue without listening; they have to sit down and listen to trade union organizations. You have to say that it's enough, that it can't be that they keep getting rich at the expense of exploiting workers more and more. That's why we believe that these two points are a first basis for getting to know the situation and improving it. On the other hand, we believe that public aid cannot be an empty check. As we have also said in many other sectors, we deny that the money that is from all of them goes to certain companies that operate, to certain companies that have labour inspectorate records, which have crimes against the safety and health of workers. We believe that subsidies can never be a blank check again, we have to put some kind of control measure in order for public subsidies to go to companies that, at least, keep working conditions minimally dignified and do not exploit their workers. On the other hand, we also believe that it is important to visualize, because it is true that it is a reality that is coming out of light, but that it is still very invisible in many sectors of the population. That's why we believe the creation of a quality stamp for certain hotels helps to fight precariousness, because we know that many people prefer to go to a hotel that doesn't explode, that doesn't precarious. Because there are a lot of people who don't want to pay four hundred euros for a room and know that that worker is paying less than two and a half euros an hour — four hundred is a bit too much, but they don't want to pay 200 euros per room and know that there are workers with wages of misery. So we believe that the creation of this stamp, which has not been launched but has already been approved in other parts of the country, can be positive to see how the situation of the different shelters is. On the other hand, we believe it is essential to move forward on the subject of labour inspections. It's also a very recurring issue: it's said that there's not enough inspections, that it's often warned of inspections, that there's a lot of conditions that are completely illegal that are going on unnoticed... and that's why we believe that there's a need to increase labour inspections, and labour inspectors to demand the central government to do so. And from here, obviously, press for this to happen. Then -- as I said -- the infernal rhythms that these women live have many health problems and many occupational diseases, so we believe that reducing retirement age or studying the reasons for lowering retirement age is also a very necessary matter. And we believe that the central government must also listen to this claim, which is very basic, because there are many women who cannot continue to exercise their work because of this excessive workload. And lastly — which is the last point but not least — I would say the main one, because it goes to the root, because it talks about this sector but talks about all the sectors of workers and workers in our country — to ban labour reforms. Because we have to go to the root of the problem, because labor reforms have not managed to create more and better jobs — as many times have been said —; all they have achieved is to rob of rights, make up for wages and reduce layoffs. We believe that there must be an end to labour reforms; we know that there is no agreement at these points, but it seems to us essential that we review it and evaluate it. Years after the implementation of labour reforms, all those issues that were said to allow labour reforms, where are they? Where's all that high-quality job and job? Everything's the other way around. And, of course, labour reforms go hand in hand with the outsourcing of services, and — as we have said in many other sectors as well — outsourcing favours workers to have even worse wages, favours them to have much more instability, companies to have much more ease to fire the workers and to get them to go around constantly, and to get rid of the collective agreement. We believe that going to the root of the problem, ending these work reforms, is, let us say, the first step. As I say, this motion is a first step. It would probably take a lot more questions, it's probably not the only sector. Today we are talking about this sector because we believe it is a particularly vulnerable sector that is also visible and mobilizing and that has been silent for many years, but we believe that there are many precarious sectors in our country. We wait and think they'll take a few steps today. We believe that the only thing they're demanding are minimally decent working conditions; it's totally assumed, and these women don't have to keep working on these conditions of misery. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u182	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. First of all, from the Socialist Group, we want to recognize and thank them, the ones they fight, the ones they clean, the roommates, the Kellys, that tourism hits records thanks to their good work, but especially for bringing hope to thousands of workers, for whom I am a great example in their struggle. [[Applause]] The good data of tourism contrasts with the everyday reality of workers in the sector, which sees their working conditions worsen and their workloads rising. For nothing we share the tourism model of the People's Party. We understand that we must act urgently, so that the tourism industry in Greece should be regarded as a strategic sector of our economy, strengthening cohesion, but creating quality jobs. We fully agree with the description of the conditions under which workers in the sector made by Mrs Quinteiro. In Galicia there are around 3,000 roommates who are affected by outsourcing processes by which hotel chains can subcontract multi-service companies that often devalue the wages of these workers, which will affect their retirement pension. This work, which in itself requires a great physical effort, will have to add the great burden of work and the labor to which these women are subjected. This physical work throughout the day generates a permanent tension to get production forward and puts workers at an ergonomic risk and permanent psychosocial risk. In addition, all types of musculoskeletal injuries, stress and anxiety are produced, which in many cases cause temporary disability and occupational diseases. Many of them — as has been said here — are measured daily to endure pain and to be able to face a hard day's work. And here I want to stand up, because -- as I said on more than one occasion -- it's not like they rule or govern each other. The Ministry of Labour of Pedro Sánchez recognized on 31 August of this year as professional diseases a group of conditions that suffer from this collective, such as carpiano tunnel syndrome or bursitis, all of them pathologies produced by repetitive movements, by vibrations transmitted to the hands produced by the management of vacuum cleaners, inciting and grinding machines, among others. In addition, the Government of Pedro Sánchez has established its own code for roommates in the national classification of occupations, which will provide greater autonomy in the statistical source and will allow more accurate follow-up of occupational diseases and occupational accidents in the sector. The Government of Pedro Sánchez heard the demands, an old historical demand of this collective, the difference of Mr. Rajoy, who repeatedly refused to receive a representation of this collective and only agreed to interview them at the request of a member of the Canadian Coalition. And you know when? When they were negotiating state budgets for 2018. Chances of life. That's why, no, ladies and gentlemen, it's not like they govern each other. [[Applause]] We agree that there is still a lot to go on, and we agree on most of the resolute spirit of the non-legislative proposal put forward by En Marea, but we have tabled a series of amendments which we understand may need a little more. We agree that an increase of inspectors and labour inspectors is being requested, in accordance with the Director Plan for a decent job, also approved by the Ministry of Labour. The Government of Pedro Sánchez has approved this master plan at the end of July of this year, and includes seventy-five measures to recover work rights and to fight labour fraud. One of these measures is the incorporation of eight hundred thirty-three new squares into the Labour Inspectorate up to 2020 and the injection of thirty million euros over the next two years; it should be noted that Galicia, in early 2018, had ten percent fewer workforces in the Labour Inspectorate than in 2009. As far as early retirement is concerned, the amendment is in the sense — as you well know — that it is a regulated, non-discretional procedure, regulated both in the recast text of the Social Security Act and in the Royal Decree establishing the legal regime and the procedure for establishing reducing coefficients and anticipating retirement age in the social security system. Of course, I wish it was easier and tomorrow even the workers in the sector could have access to that early retirement, but that's why we tabled the amendment in the sense that this procedure of analysis would begin and accelerate to conquer this early retirement. And with regard to labour reform — and I will finish, President — we believe from the Socialist Group that, by derogating the most harmful aspects of labour reform in 2012 — and with political will, as you see from the Socialist Government in Madrid, we can take important steps to recover lost labour rights, especially in those aspects related to collective bargaining. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Go ahead with our concern and sensitivity to the employment situation of women who work as floor waiters. But you are moving to Galicia a cassusistic and a problem that is happening intensively in other autonomous communities where there is a more powerful tourism industry linked to large hotel chains and where kelly associations have been organized for more years; I'm talking about Madrid, Balearics, Canaryes, Catalonia... in Galicia the average size of tourism companies is much smaller. And with this, Mrs. Quinteiro, I am not denying the abusive situations of the complaints of these workers, no, because we don't care that there are three to three hundred; as long as there are one with abusive working conditions, we must act, and be clear. That's why I'm very glad that we could reach agreement, especially on the points where it directly affects them. [[Applause]] We must remember that, in this action, the first to act was President Rajoy on 5 April 2018. So Mr. Sánchez didn't even imagine he was going to be president of the Government supported by anti-constitutionalists. President Rajoy: Yes, what he received, he heard, committed himself to the Kellys and to the improvements of his conditions, and who constituted the Bureau for the quality of the employment of the hospitality sector to deal with issues affecting them, such as employment stability, training, working time regulation and safety and occupational health. [[Murmurs.]] In this area, the Union, without having competence, has joined this work table to analyse in-depth the professional diseases that affect them and to advance in their prevention, and thanks to this initiative and the action of President Rajoy, they have recognized injuries in the hands and arms as professional diseases, as well as the evaluation of other diseases that suffer and have a professional origin. The councillor, in the past full, did admit that his conditions must be improved and took note of the measures being taken, such as the development of a practical guide to develop ergonomic and psychosocial risks towards the hospitality sector, and even described the specific work plan of Issga for the year 2019 concerning this sector. With regard to the Labour Inspectorate, the advisor also announced that next year he will make a very special follow-up to the working conditions and recruitment of these workers, and with particular attention to the workers handed over by the ETTs and multi-service companies. Because the Labour Inspectorate in Galicia acts, ladies and gentlemen, and here are the 2017 data: it has expanded the Inspection four thousand three hundred jobs — an average of twelve jobs a day — and forced the conversion into indefinite of 4,859 temporary contracts. So we amend to strengthen this work inspection and we do our work and we accept the Socialist Party's drafting to increase inspectors and inspections in Galicia. And we also amend other points in order to facilitate their implementation in order to reach consensus, such as encouraging social dialogue between employers and trade unions to improve the quality of employment in the tourism sector, with particular emphasis on possible groups with gender prejudices; setting up a specific working group on gender with representatives of the tourism sector who promote measures in the field of awareness, training and application of recruitment criteria that protect the most vulnerable groups, and incorporating the gender perspective into the study being developed in the field of labour health, as well as measures that are being carried out in relation to the working conditions that occur in the tourism housing sector, and particularly in hotels, because it is in hotels where there is the problem, and not in shelters, Mrs Quinteiro. We will vote in favour of the PSdeG if we accept the amendment — as we agree — to speed up the process of analysing working conditions in order to enable the recognition of early retirement. We can't accept aid being conditional on labour inspections because of their complexity and inoperability, and because it would be a very unfair situation with those companies that haven't been inspected. Because you know very well that you can't get to the 100 percent inspection of the establishments. As far as quality stamps are concerned, they cannot be created ad hoc for every specific objective, and much less for matters of thank-you-given compliance, as you are asking, Mrs Quinteiro, since these stamps would lose all their meaning and even their value as international recognition. What we can do is ask the Institute for Tourism Quality in Spain to promote criteria of equality and attention to groups that may be at risk of gender prejudice, such as Kellys, in quality certifications of companies. I'm sorry I didn't accept this transaction. And I can't accept the valuation that they make of the German labour market, ladies and gentlemen, because EPA shows that women in Galicia are better than women in the state as a whole — and it has also been noted by the advisor — and that Galicia has improved the quality of women's employment since 2009. And, with regard to the linkage of temporality to the tourism sector — and finally, Mr President — it is not directly related to temporality to the situation of the Kellys; temporality in the tourism sector is directly related to seasonality. So we've found that in Madrid, Balearics, Canary Islands, Catalonia... with a much more stable tourist flow over time have more stability in this sector; and yet Kellys have a much more conflictive situation than we have in Galicia. And, on the other hand, it's curious to see how historically and potentially tourist communities like Andalusia are given both ratios: it has much more temporality than we have in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u186	...and a conflicting situation with the Kellys. Galicia's tourist model has nothing to do with what you're praying about. Tourism in Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, is a very positive activity, and it is well known by the one hundred and thirty-eight municipalities that run the Jacobean routes, and know well the comarcas and geodestinians...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u187	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u188	...such as The Ancares, The Courel, Ten Tabearós, Verín-Viana... less-developed areas that have huge potential and significantly increased the arrival of new visitors. And it is well known to the province of Galicia that has no sea, Ourense, which was the province — named president — where the travellers grew more, about five percent more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u189	Thank you. Please finish, Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u190	But why do I highlight these fates? The policies of destabilization and diversification of tourist flows make it possible that 60 percent of visitors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u191	Finish, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u192	...to arrive in Galicia—renamed, Mr. President—do so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u193	It's over! But look at the watch!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u194	...out of the middle and low season.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u195	Look at the clock, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u196	It's over, Mr. President. I've seen the clock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u197	At this step we don't leave here until tomorrow. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Quinteiro. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández: The Block has something to say!]] I'm sorry, it's just... of course, I know. I wanted to shorten something but it's impossible. It's impossible! [[Murmurs.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u198	It's still in BNG's right to intervene. Even if you want to shorten, Mr. President, we're going to practice... I know, it was a joke, which we still have a sense of humor in this camera. [[The President said words that were not understood.]] A previous question: this pinchacarneiro who has just done the People's Party is something that is common within this chamber, which is to try to link the defence of labour rights to a criticism or an attack on an economic sector or a particular company; in this case, to put the workers' labour rights that are responsible for the cleaning of hotels, those known as Kellys and to propose it as an attack on the tourism sector. In any case, and as we have often defended since the BNG, what cannot rule the monoculture in economic terms and economic development of the single and exclusively viewed territories from an area or sector. We're going to support the battery of proposals that pick up the In Marea motion, and we're going to do it also in that transaction to which the different groups seem to have arrived. We are absolutely in agreement with what is being formulated; also, in part, we agree with the reading now made by the spokesperson of the People's Party: it is true that in Galicia we do not have the reality that it exists in other territories within the state; it is not the case of Canary Islands, Levante or Catalonia, where the level or percentage of outsourcing of the service already reaches, in many cases, more than seventy percent. Now they're doing that part of the cleaning work of the different rooms of hotels and common spaces within the hotels multi-service companies, that's a reality that is being generalized and that is being extended across the whole territory, also as a result of the implementation of these labor reforms, especially the labour reform of the year 2012, because that outsourcing of the service to multi-service companies -- it's worth redundancy -- has also been shown to have taken place since, above all, the labour reform of the year 2012. It is true that, in Galicia, the degree of outsourcing is more than twenty per cent — between twenty and thirty per cent — that in most of them still operates the collective agreement here; that many of the workers are in the workforce within the companies, which means — so we are absolutely in agreement with the battery of initiatives that pick up the motion — that there are no irregularities happening, that there are not currently violating labour rights in the tourism sector of our country, and, in what has to do with the situation of the workers we know — that I say — popularly — like the kellys, which are producing excesses of the day; that there are women who are hired at half a day, but who are soon working full-time, or that there are many who, using these labour reforms and outsourcing services, are also taking off that collective agreement of what Mrs Quintore also talked about, and that, if nine hundred euros, they are now working on the job, they are now getting less or doing the same thing. We are absolutely in favour, we agree with that struggle for recognition of the professional diseases that are not, or so far not, recognised, with those reducing coefficients that are also proposed to ensure access to a pension worthy of many women, which, in addition to the physical reasons and the burden of work they suffer, cannot, in many cases, even access when they should a pension that will allow them to live dignifiedly, especially in one country — we always insist — as ours, which we perceive the lowest pensions in the whole state. We believe that there is no need for the situation to be generalized, as is the case in such territories as Canary Islands, Levante or Catalonia. We don't have to generalize this situation in our country to act; above all, to prevent and fight. Simply before the end of time, a question that comes to the thread also about what was being talked about in the morning about corporate social responsibility, about the social responsibility of companies: it seems good to create quality stamps that recognize companies to comply with what they are or should be a guaranteed right of work, but it is that they comply with the dignified working conditions and with the labour rights of workers and workers should not be awarded a stamp, but it should be — and so it also appears, if they comply with labour law in many cases — guaranteed, because they are human rights; labour rights also, and it does not deserve any special recognition, therefore, to be seen by their compliance. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u200	Thank you, President. The truth is, sensitivity is not shown by saying it. I, in truth, repeated it again, and would ask you to listen carefully again to the counsellor's speech of fifteen days ago; for us it was totally unacceptable. It is true that his speech was not the same, but the counsellor's speech from fifteen days ago for us was insulting with the reality that workers live, starting with what he has already mentioned as the spokesman for the Galician Nationalist Block: to talk about the situation of workers in the tourism sector is not to criticize tourism or criticize the tourism sector in abstract. We believe that making this connection is quite opportunistic and that it doesn't correspond to reality. And then a first point: the truth is that we are tired enough that, every time we have debates — lastly much more, since the government has changed — there is always an exchange of complaints and allegations in favour of what one government does or another. The truth is, if the People's Party and the Socialist Party had done what had to be done all these years, we wouldn't be debating this issue. But, as I say, it is quite tired that these debates are used quite partisanly. We have made an effort to arrive at a transaction and we are glad that this agreement has been reached, because we believe, on the one hand, that there is a deal in this parliament with which there is a problem, a problem that was denied fifteen days ago, and also a month ago; the hemerotheque is very valuable and we can also remember the debate we had in the Committee on Industry. I am glad that now they have decided to change their mind, that they have decided to change their attitude, that they accept that there is a problem and that there is a need to take action, but it is also true that we cannot fail to point out that we find it quite sad that some proposals of great importance would remain outside: we do not understand that they do not agree to condition subsidies to something so basic as to meet the minimum working conditions. His argument is invalid, because he lied: it's not that they have to have all the inspections, but inspections with sanctions that they've already done, of course, what they've done and are convicted and have crimes against safety and health. It's not abstract for everyone. Then — I have no time — with regard to the creation of the seal: it is also possible. Don't say it's not possible because it's being launched or approved elsewhere. What is needed is political will, which we believe is what is not. And then, as I said in my first intervention: for us it's essential that of labour reforms. It's not secondary, because let's say it's at the root of our country's job insecurity problem. I'm not going to go back to that because I've explained it in my first intervention, but also by completing it: although it's a reality with less impact than in other areas, it doesn't take away that the trend in this sector is negative. It's true that you mentioned it, too, and you're going to vote in favour, so we understand that you're aware that there's a problem, but it's happening: there are women who are getting out of the collective agreement, and, of course, if we've been talking about women with decent wages... but many of the women who are in the arrangement have poor wages and, above all, those who are out of the collective agreement, who are reaping misery! Miseries with which you cannot live, with which you cannot reach the end of the month, with which you cannot afford a rent. So, it's totally unacceptable, of course. We want to re-encide all recognition, because we believe it's fundamental to the struggle they're doing in spite of all the endless work days. The issue of professional diseases seems fundamental to us, because it can't be what happened until a short time ago — as I said, verbalization of them — of women who came to each other and told them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u201	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u202	...that the problem was that they had menopause or that they were an older woman. That can't happen; obviously, it's linked to this excessive workload. As I say, we rejoice at this first step, we regret that very important things remain outside, but we will continue to insist on other occasions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u204	After the debate on motions, we shall proceed with the vote. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Don Patricia Vilán. No amendments were tabled. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the projects of waste management and treatment facilities, as well as existing facilities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u205	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas. She did not accept the amendments, but she offered a point vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is there a change? Then you'll explain to us what the change is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u206	We accept point 1 of the PP and point 2 of En Marea, replacing our points 1 and 2, and we call for points — which calls for a group — and we would vote separately on point 1 of the 3 and 4, and point 2 and 5. We understand ourselves even though it seems not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u207	The 1, 3 and 4... [[An honourable Member: No.]] Please let her speak, I understand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u208	The 1; separately, 3 and 4, and finally, 2 and 5. There would be three votes: point 1, points 3 and 4 and points 2 and 5.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u209	With the killings you've explained before.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u210	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u211	Is that understood? Then we vote the points separately. Let us first vote on point 1. Point 1 vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact it is having in Galicia at the constant rise of the price of electricity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. It was therefore adopted by 71 votes to one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u212	We now vote points 3 and 4. Vote for points 3 and 4 of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact it is having in Galicia at the constant rise of the price of electricity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. Points 3 and 4 of this motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u213	And finally, we are voting on points 2 and 5. Vote for points 2 and 5 of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact it is having in Galicia at the constant rise of the price of electricity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. Points 2 and 5 of this motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u214	And now we are voting on the motion from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Eva Solla. He accepts the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. in Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the provision of human and material resources for emergency services in hospitals. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u215	And finally, we voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mrs Paula Quinteiro. There's a transaction that made me come in. They know all groups about the transaction; then, obviously, their reading. Sorry, the transaction has to explain it because then it's more complex. [[These are words that are not perceived.]] There are two paragraphs: paragraph A and paragraph B. Within each paragraph there are points. In the first paragraph, in the A, we would first vote on points 1, 2 and 5, and then on points 3 and 4. We now begin by voting on points 1, 2 and 5 of paragraph A. Point 1, 2 and 5 A vote on the G.P. Motion. De En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the performances to be carried out by the Italian Government in relation to the working conditions of women who work cleaning floors, hotels and apartments. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. Consequently, 71 votes were adopted in favour of points 1, 2 and 5 of point A of this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u216	We now vote points 3 and 4. Vote of points 3 and 4 of point A of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. De En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the performances to be carried out by the Italian Government in relation to the working conditions of women who work cleaning floors, hotels and apartments. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. Paragraphs 3 and 4 of point A of this motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u217	Paragraph B has three points. Let us first vote points 1 and 2. Vote of points 1 and 2 of the B of the G.P. Motion. De En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the performances to be carried out by the Italian Government in relation to the working conditions of women who work cleaning floors, hotels and apartments. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. Consequently, 71 votes were adopted in favour of points 1 and 2 of point B of this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u218	And now we are voting on point 3. Paragraph 3 (B) vote on the G.P. Motion. De En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the performances to be carried out by the Italian Government in relation to the working conditions of women who work cleaning floors, hotels and apartments. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 53. The result of the vote is negative. Point 3 of point B of this motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u219	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with point 4, which corresponds to non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Raquel Arias Rodríguez and nine other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the amendment of Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June, of the general electoral regime, as regards the articles relating to the exercise of the vote by Spanish residents abroad
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u220	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. [[G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández, through her spokesperson and in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution should be replaced by the following: "The Parliament urges the Board of Galicia to demand from the Spanish Government the adoption of the necessary measures to allow the exercise of the right to vote of the personnel engaged in the fishing fleet of height, great height and the merchant navy."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, through his spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution should be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to request the political groups present at the Congress of Deputies, and within the framework of the work being completed by Sub-Commission for electoral reform created within the Constitutional Commission, the agreement for urgent amendment of the Organic Law 5/1985, of 19 June, of the general electoral regime, in the articles referred to the exercise of vote by the Spanish residents abroad, so that they can exercise their right to vote with the same guarantees as residents in Spanish territory, by eliminating the request (rogo) of the vote, combining all possibilities of electoral participation which are possible and simplifying the procedure to benefit of efficiency and efficiency.)]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u221	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Arias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u222	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. This initiative speaks of the equality of all Welsh people, regardless of where they live, when they exercise their right to vote, and thus participate in the election of their political representatives with equal guarantees, with the same guarantees. Finally, it speaks of the fact that the Greeks who live abroad can exercise that right in an agile, safe and transparent manner, something which is reflected in the Constitution — which, by the way, we are celebrating this week's 40th anniversary — but also in the Statute for the Autonomy of Galicia. With this initiative, from the Popular Group, we ask that the Spaniards, who do not live in Spain, be able to approach this electoral process as much as possible to those who live in Galicia and those who live in Spain. And for that it is essential, firstly, to remove the voting system, to establish formulas so that residents abroad can vote simply, and to do so with the maximum guarantees, and to discard any option that implies doubts about the validity of votes and the cleaning of the whole process; that is, to totally discard back to the system prior to the reform of 2011. I'm not going to spend much time here explaining what the current situation is, since you all know it, but I'm going to make some points to contextualize this initiative. The reform of the organic law of general electoral regime, of 2011, driven by the Socialist Government of Zapatero, was born with the idea of eliminating fraud in the vote coming from the outside that was happening with the previous system and that was being denounced by all. So, it amends Article 75 of LOREX and it inserts the system of begging the vote, known as the voting system: a system that was more reliable, yes, but that had such complexity that it passes bill to our democratic system, and voting has since become, for those who reside outside Spain, a true career of obstacles. In Galicia, in the last beginnings of 2016, this system affected four hundred and forty-six thousand Greeks living outside Spain. In particular, the current system implies that those who live in the foreign country and want to participate in the autonomous elections, in the general elections or in the European elections must request the vote through the consulate, sending a form to the corresponding polling station — via mail, fax or Internet — and wait after the Electoral Board approves the petition and returns all the documentation to them. Once that documentation has been received, deposit the vote in the corresponding consulate, or do it by mail. Therefore, the voting in favour, the vote that exists right now, is a system with a huge bureaucratic burden which requires a great deal of effort for those who want to exercise their right to vote and which depends beyond the functioning of the postal services of their respective countries. I don't want to tell you what has to happen to those who live in countries like Cuba or Venezuela. [[Laughter]] From the very first moment, the protests of migrants have continued: by the succession of procedures to be met, by the adjustment of deadlines, or by the fact that the paperwork does not arrive in time in those countries where mail systems operate poorly, and also by all the procedures that must be put in place. In short, a hatred for anyone who wants to exercise this right. And what is the result of all this? Well, a drastic fall in the participation of the foreign vote since the 2011 reform. We're going to put some data on the table: in the general elections of 2008, in Spain voted 31.88 percent of citizens entitled to vote in CERA; in the general elections of 2016, 8.78 percent applied for the vote, and of them only 6.30 percent voted. That's in Spain, but in Galicia the data are even more worrying: in 2009 the vote was 22.6 percent — in autonomics — and in 2016 — in general — was 2.41 percent. If this data is alarming, it is also worrying that there were nine thousand Greeks who applied for the vote, and that in the end their vote was not reached, they could not exercise that right. In view of the data, it is obvious that the voting system is not fulfilling its role: it favours further abstention from the slowness and complexity of the process, even often because of the material impossibility of voting. That's why, despite the 2011 reform, the community continues to demand that a regulation be adapted as much as possible to the one we have here in Spain, and that it can also facilitate that intervention, that participation in the election of its representatives, its representatives of a country in which they are very integrated, in which they have emotional, personal, territorial, social, cultural, economic ties to those who do not want to bond with each other; links that are good for them and for us and that are playing a decisive role also in the demographic challenge. The Galician People's Party has repeatedly expressed its commitment to the reform of LOREX towards a system of agile, safe and transparent vote, and we will explain a little what our proposal would be. First of all, to remove the voting system, and to move on to a system of storage in the furnace as a generalized system, and for this reason it would have to increase, with regard to what is currently, the depositary of votes, the places of voting, including the consulates, with the honorary consulates, the regional houses, the houses of Spain, the Cervantes Institute or other centres authorized and attended by officials of the Spanish State. The voters from the outside must have the ballots that reach them there, and they can have different systems — they should see —. We propose that it may be, for example, through the parties, by downloading them from the Internet, by distributing them to the polling tables themselves, or by being able to use blank papers where everyone can write their choice. The vote would be kept by mail, the vote begged as it is right now, that is, for those cases of material impossibility to do it differently. For example, for those who are sick, disabled, traveling or those who live in countries where distances are very long and there is a small community in an isolated area, which would not allow them to place a furnace. Therefore, the deletion of the requested vote as a generalized system. Secondly, documentation should be made available to countries abroad in greater advance. Thirdly, to extend the voting days, which are currently three, by going to seven, and taking two weekends, so that in this way they could go to vote more easily on those people who are working and, in addition, could do it on a weekend or the other. And fourthly, constantly updating the CERA, because, in this way, we would never leave people who would be in a position to vote, but, by not updating the census, they can't do it. These are the details of our proposal, but you have already read it and you see that the non-law proposal we are debating today and that we are presenting today is much more generic. We do so this way because it seems to us that, on such an important issue as this, we should seek the greatest consensus; a consensus that can be a minimum proposal, which is the elimination of the voted vote, and hence the simplification of the voting system, and the transparency and absolute guarantees for the voters. So today, all of us, and all of you, have the opportunity to tell the Galicians of the diaspora and the Greeks that we live in Galicia that system, which electoral model we prefer: a system that favors participation and security in electoral processes, eliminating the vote begged but giving all guarantees, or a model that you cannot, often, and always disables, in practice, the vote of the diaspora, which is what is happening with the current law after the reform of 2011, or even the return to an expired system that favours fraud — the previous year 2011. The People's Group has always had it, and it's very clear. We want a democratic system that promotes participation and security in electoral processes. That is our proposal, and we hope to count on the support of all the groups in something that is decisive for all the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u223	Thank you, Mrs Arias. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u224	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. One question, because it's something that repeats a lot inside and out of this parliament: knuckles are cavities on the rocks, in galley it's urn; it's just like shade, because it's something that always gets confused. He always gets confused, and I remember a president of the Galician Union who said it, and who said it a lot, and he wasn't from the People's Party. And another appreciation: about which the PP always had it clear I have my doubts, Mrs. Arias, because seven years ago they said one thing and now they say the opposite. Then we'll talk about this reform of the 2011 LOREX. And another data too, before I'm forgotten, look: It's already down in 2009, for example. There had been a reduction in participation in twenty-eight percent when what began to be asked was that at least people voting from abroad in elections to this country had to be identified; that people, in that reform introduced in 2009, simply had to identify. [[Murmurs.]] We, from the BNG, have defended, and we have always said, that it is necessary to introduce facilities to guarantee the right to vote of the Galicians and the Greeks who live in emigration or of those absent resident persons who are entitled to recognised suffrage in our country. What we do not support is that the guarantees introduced in the reform of the year 2011 are suppressed — as is intended to be abolished — to put an end to something that was established as a rule, which was an absolutely entrepreneurship fraud in any system that is said to be at least democratic. It was a reform, in addition, that we must remember — as I said at the outset — that it was driven by the People's Party and the Socialist Party in 2011, and that the Nationalist Block of Wales supported at that time. Can and should the Spanish State facilitate the exercise of the right to vote to the Greeks and to the Greeks who are in immigration? It can and must. Can and should the Spanish State lay down the deadlines for the full exercise of that right to vote? It can and must. That's the BNG position. What we are not going to support is never going back to the system that governed the Spanish State and Galicia, in concrete, until 2011. Because here we are talking about no, that we have to shield those guarantees, but as soon as we see it, both in the resolution and all the information we know about the debate that has been held in the Spanish Courts in recent years, it is that at the end no one puts on the table guarantees so that this country will not return to the system that has prevailed until 2011. And I think I still remember what happened in this country before: that half of the Chacarita cemetery voted in our country's elections. [[Applause]] In addition, there is a hemerotheca for those who want books published in this regard, some of them in 2007—then I will quote it for if someone wants to expand information—but there is sufficient hemerotheca and also analyses and studies on electoral fraud recorded, since it was possible to vote until these assurances were established that we believe that they should not in any case be deleted, but that they seem to want to be deleted by the PP. See how much more support comes out of this initiative today; since BNG they're already ahead of time. Electoral fraud. You were talking to Mrs. Arias from Venezuela, weren't you? Those Venezuelan strips that didn't get to Fraga, of course. Other examples of that electoral fraud were Rajoy's calls that unleashed Wikileaks, because Galicia also appeared on those wires unearthed by Wikileaks, with Rajoy calling the U.S. Senator because he was at stake the seat that gave the most absolute to the People's Party. Nor did she give them the foreign vote until then — in addition to the name and name — of Mrs Hermesinda Dapia: the vote of that woman — issued, valid — came to Galicia, accompanied by the death certificate of that poor Mrs Hermesinda, who had died for years. I insist that there are books published about it. We also defend equality of rights for the whole of the Galicians and the Greeks, regardless of the situation in which they are found, and in that sense goes the amendment of substitution that presented the Nationalist Galego Block. And it's to guarantee the right of exercise to vote to thousands of Welshmen who are aboard the fleet of height, of high height and the merchant navy of our country, and who have been unable to vote since they opened the right to vote in the Spanish state since 1978, who have been unable to vote in the merchant navy, of height and of high height since the exercise of the right to vote in the Spanish state has been recognized. I can explain the procedure that empowers the Spanish State to exercise that right to vote: among other things, request, request this vote by radiotelegraph and registration in the electoral census; indicate in that message number of DNI, date of birth, province and municipality of birth, municipality of residence in which it is included in the electoral census, street and address number, name of the ship on which it is boarding, port or ports in which it has scheduled its arrival with indication of the specific dates, and of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u225	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u226	...if you are on a Spanish flag ship, you also have to approach a port of the Spanish State, which, as everyone knows here, is very likely and very possible for people who are in Newfoundland or the Pacific for five months. We don't talk about two, three, four, 100 people. We're talking about 10,000 people who work at the time, at large or in the merchant navy, most of them Galicians and Greeks, who, I insist, can exercise their basic political right to vote once they retire. It looks like science fiction. It seems science fiction that equality of rights for the personnel aboard the fleet of high, high and sea merchant...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u227	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u228	...in the 21st century — it's over — when we can send anyone to make tourism to outer space. By the way, astronauts have guaranteed the exercise of the right to vote, or, for example, the people who work in military services and are unfolded in countries, for example, like Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u229	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u230	We argue that we guarantee the exercise of the right to vote, that we guarantee that equal conditions for all the Greeks and Greeks who work here, who pay the taxes here and who find themselves — I say — aboard.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u231	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u232	If they want to end with injustice, accept the Block Replacement Amendment. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u233	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u234	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mrs Arias, I do not say so ironically, or perhaps so, but we thank the People's Parliamentary Group for this initiative. I say this because one of the spokespersons who spoke earlier said that it would not be necessary to bring about initiatives that would seek to politically or electorally re-establish some of the issues that are currently ending the Government, and I say so because you know, Mrs Arias, and, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they know perfectly well how the Sub-Commission is ending its work for electoral reform, created within the Constitutional Commission. [[Applause]] And knowing this, it is difficult to understand that in some way they are trying to anticipate — I hope — that result by consensus in the area of the Congress of Deputies. It's a certain way to parasitize the jobs, the agreements in other areas, and to anticipate here in Galicia something that will not depend on either the People's Party or this camera, though we can make a consensual call. Because, Mrs Arias, you know perfectly well how the plenary of the Congress of Deputies, on 6 September, approved a timetable, which ends on 31 December — this month — precisely for this electoral reform Sub-Commission to complete the reform work of Article 75 of the LOREX. And you know, Mrs Arias — I suppose you know perfectly well — as on 25 September the Congress of Deputies also established contact with a government working group composed of experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Labour who have just handed over the results of these technical work to the electoral reform Sub-Commission. You know, Mrs Arias, that in the area of this subcommittee and, in principle, in the field of Congress, there is a strong commitment to practically all political groups to take forward the necessary revision and reform of the Act of the electoral regime of 1985 after that reform suffered in 2011. The commitment of the Socialist Party is clear, the commitment of the Government of Pedro Sánchez is clear in this matter, and they can observe as in the 2019 budget agreement, at a point — precisely 11 in the field of democratic quality — in that agreement with us we can regulate the need to reform the electoral law in order, of course, to avoid the current situation of the vote of all Spanish emigration and, therefore, of all Welsh emigration. We could even underline, Mrs Arias, that, after this reform of 2011, the successive governments of the People's Party, the governments of Mr Rajoy, did nothing to try to modify this electoral system of voting pleaded for all emigration. They certainly call attention to the fact that, at this time that the electoral reform Sub-Commission is trying to complete these work to consensualize a reform, they bring this initiative here to try to focus — as it were in a colloquial way — somewhat. And in that sense, by the way, you also know -- you know, Mrs Arias, and I say it by tone and by the entry into the explanatory statement of the proposal not by law that you are defending today -- that the reform of the OREX of the year 2011 had been pushed, as Mrs. Rodil pointed out, by guaranteed indications of the Council of State and the Central Electoral Unit. And it was driven by the Government at that time, which was the Socialist Government, but, as I say, by dictates received from both the Council of State and the Central Electoral Unit. He received three hundred and twenty-one votes in favour of the three hundred and forty-four casts; therefore, he was also approved by the People's Party, because it gives the impression that they want to get rid of that reform. [[Applause]] And they know precisely that the Central Electoral Board itself, in the report which sent them in November 2016 both to the General Courts and to the Rajoy Government, put precisely in order to analyze the evolution of the vote in accordance with Article 75 of the Reformed LOREX in 2011, as well as the vote of the entire Spanish emigration — of the CERA vote — is practically having a witness content. I'm not going to quote the data you quoted, of course, about how after this reform of 2011 — especially in the generals of 2015 and in the generals of 2016 — fell in a narrow manner precisely the percentage of votes voted by CERA. In this sense, the Central Electoral Committee itself, which makes a proposal to go to an electronic voting procedure, precisely, advocates the necessary revision of this voting regime of all emigration — by the way, of these two million and peaks of Spanish living abroad a quarter are Greeks and Greeks. I insist, Mrs Arias, that this electoral reform Sub-Commission has received the expert report and is trying to reach consensus. It is not a question of returning to non-guarantee systems prior to the 2011 reform, but rather of suppressing the vote requested, reducing in an important way the deadlines...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u235	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u236	...and therefore to replace the current guarantees with other guarantees that make the procedure more universal, more equal and, above all, more agile. And especially more agile. Mrs Arias, the amendment that we are bringing about is a necessary amendment from a technical point of view and, above all, from a political point of view, because we cannot urge the Government to pass an organic law, we must urge the political groups present in the General Courts, precisely, to reach an agreement allowing such reform by an absolute majority of the organic law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u237	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u238	We hope that the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party will also be involved in this reform, with which they are now trying — I think it is not appropriate — to make such a point. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u239	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u240	Good morning, Mr. President. Mrs Arias, the truth is that we are not surprised by the double-barometer exercise of cynicism, political interest and tactics that the People's Party has been giving us since there was a change of government. Of course, this is already a new case of their spooks and their change of heart according to what they are interested in in every place, place, parliament or particular moment. The most important thing to be able to see what your real political line on this issue, as with many others, is to get rid of the hemerotheca. We've compiled a series of articles in the press to see evolution. Without going into questions that have already settled, of course, from our group we will not support any kind of structural or own-gallemish reform so that they will vote again on bisnets, Tataranets and dead for three decades now — and forgive me for the hope of my expression, my exaggeration — nor will we deprive people that they can exercise their political rights abroad, and, above all, youth, who has campaigned to denounce all over the state by denouncing, precisely, issues that you were saying, but that, however, Mr. Rajoy did not seem as important as you have stated here: the political rights of people living in the foreign, emigrant, of the state as a whole. In fact, an article by El Mundo in 2015 -- on October 30, if anyone cared about the emigrant vote -- spoke about exactly these issues that you said: of the data of the fall of the vote, of how there are two million Spaniards who have the right to vote abroad and that almost eighty percent of them who wanted to vote, ninety-five percent wouldn't. And he explained that, in fact, this was a reform that was agreed between the Socialist Party, the People's Party and with the support of the PNV and the CIU — nationalists — to implement the voted in favour, those parties with whom you never commit anything and never have anything to see except when they are politically interested. In fact, the Marea Granate denounced, when Mr. Rajoy was ruling with an absolute majority of the People's Party, who had abolished the vote, for the sixth consecutive time the Government of Spain — the PP — who had stopped giving his back to immigrants, and talked about how they asked to rescue their vote and denounced all the obstacles and all the problems they had to vote and exercise their right in manifests where they were talking about irregularities. He spoke after 20-D and 26-X, for there was a first will after the denunciations of this hatred, and where we joined several political groups to denounce and campaign for the elimination of the vote. However, the Government — at that mid-term moment in transition, but which continued to govern — did not change anything at all. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga shows you a document to the members of the House.]] At Europe he criticized the vote he asked for and urged the Government of the State to change this way of voting; however, the People's Party at that time did not seem to care so much. It's funny. Meanwhile, the political groups that make up the Confederal Group have already campaigned, and the youth campaigned against the vote. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Then, as early as May 2016, both the Socialist Party and the Confederal Group proposed that the requested vote be eliminated for 26-J and then even we started to bring initiatives, as for example, the Confederal Group also — gave it the date — of February 17, 2016, which called for the creation of a commission of inquiry concerning alleged irregularities, administrative errors or lack of means made available to Spanish citizens living abroad to exercise their right to vote. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga shows you a document to the members of the House.]] What was the People's Party doing? The People's Party didn't feel good about these measures. We also present the electoral reform — the Confederal Group. Among the proposals, at the end of the Act of Hont, the vote at the age of 16, the cremation lists, the elimination of the vote requested... they started making commitments through the Congress of Deputies, both in October and since April of this year, to be able to modify, by the channels of the institutions, these types of obstacles, but to ensure the guarantees, and even it was one of the agreements between the Socialist Government and the Confederal Group to approve and support the assumptions. And where was the People's Party?, where was the People's Party, which is so concerned that people exercise their voting rights with guarantees? Of course, but then we've found the explanation of why the Galician People's Party brings this initiative here. If you see this map, this map is very revealing. This map gives the percentages of the foreign vote in 20-D. And here's the map clearly of who's being voted for and why Galicia's PP has so much interest in pushing this measure here, against which they vote against, blocked it and from which they didn't want to know anything about the state as a whole. You look at: Unite Podemos, 27.13 votes — or 30.9 —; People's Party, 23.7% of the votes, concentrated in Galicia mainly and in part in Castela-León, especially in Galicia, Galicia. Of course! What a cynicism, what a craziness, what a shame they have, and how it looks like they're wearing feathers! But the difference between us and you is that we are consistent and we support structural measures and ask for assurances so that the Union can vote and not vote for the dead, we will support them here and in the state as a whole, not like you, who only act out of interest and political tactics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u242	Mrs. Santos, it's a hard week to talk about votes. I understand your goat, what I don't understand is that you treat with such frivolity something so important to 500,000 of our compatriots, that's what I don't understand. [[Applause]] Mr Villoslada, in fact, because this issue is being dealt with in the subcommittee on electoral reform, because it is being dealt with right now, and because, as I said, there are 500,000 Greeks pending what is to be agreed on in that reform, I think it is very appropriate to bring this initiative here, and that it is known in Madrid, where it is being debated, what is the position of the different groups of this Parliament. That's why we think it's important and relevant. And we agree with your amendment, that the subcommittee for electoral reform created within the Constitutional Commission knows the view of this Parliament on the urgent amendment of LOREG. But I think it's fundamental to be able to reach the right port — and you know it perfectly — that the Government also has knowledge of it. So we're going to accept his amendment, but as an amendment of addition to our text, because it seems important to us that we meet the various groups and that it is important and necessary for us to know the Government as well. And, Mrs. Rodil, thank you very much for the correction, really, it was a clear mistake. But we all have mistakes, you said that this initiative caused you doubts, and I think it's doubtful. But this initiative isn't about grammatical errors and dialectic errors, it's about something serious, and we both know it. So it's surprising that you're talking about guarantees here. We agree with those assurances, that those guarantees must be the maximum. But these guarantees can never prevent the exercise of the right to what has been created. So you guarantee yes, but within a system that allows us to realize that right, because as it is now, it cannot be done. And, frankly, I, after the trip that Mrs. Pontón made to South America, find out that she came with so little sensitivity, because everyone we've been there once and everyone we've ever talked to the people at the diaspora, we know that they're continually asking if the system changes, they're asking to be able to participate. With guarantees, but be able to participate. Honestly, I don't know if Mrs. Pontón went there on vacation or actually went to meet and know what interests the Greeks who are in the diaspora. [[Applause]] We, from the PPdeG, will always defend and we will continue to defend a system of voting for the Greeks from abroad that is with the same guarantees, with the same rights and with the same facilities as the residents in Galicia. And look, Mr. Villoslada, and also Mrs. Santos, we haven't changed, we think about this and we always say this. In fact, it goes to our electoral program, which we introduced to the elections and we won the elections. So, uh...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u243	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u244	...as I said, with regard to the amendment of the BNG, we would accept it because, of course, we want the maximum guarantees and the maximum possibilities for all, we would agree to include its amendment but how to add it. Because you can't just step aside and get on the other side. We actually believe that all the people who are at sea when they are the elections have their right to vote, all the right, and you have to make it easier. It's also a posture that we've always seen defending here and we'll continue to defend it, but we support everyone, they don't have to be exclusive. If you like, how you add it will be admitted. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u245	Thank you, Mrs Arias. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María Luisa Pierres López, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the transport services to demand that are being provided in the most neglected rural areas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u246	Parliamentary Group on the Environment and People's Parliamentary Group have tabled amendments to this non-legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u247	Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Distinguished and distinguished Members and Members, I am obliged to apologize for the grammatical mistakes I could have made and those I will undoubtedly commit today and those I will have to make in the future. In any case, this initiative is about something as important to our autonomous community as the demand transport service, about a non-law proposal that our group registered on September 20, 2018 on the problem we detected during the summer months of this same year and the low demand we have according to official data. The operation of this modality during the period between December 2017 and the end of July 2018 answered 1,662 calls, although we have no record of — that information is not made available — of how many of these calls resulted in the effective provision of a demand transport service. If we're aware that during that same period there were one and a half million bus trips, we're talking about this service meeting 0.1% of the demands that have been made for transport, so we're talking about a frank answer. We have also found that there were different responses to the same demand, curiously, and I have to say this because I have witnessed that this was actually the case, that this service blamed the municipalities for the lack of provision when that council was not governed by the People's Party or actually referred to the service's lending companies to have access to that trip. And even if they've given cases, too, of giving applicants, users, different times for the same service, up to three different times for the same journey on the same day. Obviously, this worsening situation coincides with the summer period, where, as we all know, the school transport service does not work. Nothing has to do with this demand presented today by our parliamentary group and the demand made in the autonomous community with the same service that is provided in the Autonomous Community of Castile and León, the autonomous community which, by the way, has been used systematically as a reference by the Government of the Council of Galicia to put in place the transport service of demand. With a fundamental difference, and it's that, despite sharing certain parameters as regards population and population dispersion, in Castile-Leon served 51,000 people. We are, of course, talking about an essential service for an autonomous community like our own, where to the population dispersal we all know if you add a high aging and, in addition, one of the lowest incomes in the state, particularly in pensions and particularly, as we all know, in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense. We do not want with this initiative that if we are accused of catastrophes or apocalyptics, adjectives to those who have us accustomed to the People's Party, but if we want Galicia's public transport plan to be a useful tool, that is an effective tool and that does not introduce elements of inequality into the population and, therefore, that it is also an efficient instrument. We also know — and the People's Party knows, and the leaders of today's Infrastructure and Mobility Council — that the first phase of the implementation of the Galician public transport plan has put in place a real puzzle for the autonomous administration, and there has been a need to redefine services on the move by changing schedules, routes and even stopping with regard to the adjudications. And this is a teaching of what I hope you've taken good note and learned about self-government. Because it must be taken into account what happened last year so that once the preliminary drafts that set up this public transport plan in Galicia are sent long enough to the municipalities for their supervision and incorporation of the corrections that might be necessary. When planning, ladies and gentlemen, an instrument of these characteristics, given its direct involvement in people's lives, neither defects can be accepted in their planning nor errors in their design. And this leads us to present this non-law proposal to this Parliament, because in the last two weeks, two important features have been produced with regard to Galicia's public transport plan, such as the adoption by the Galician Transport Council and the Galician Council of the master lines of planning for the renewal of the bus service map. Approval that, in the case of the Galego Transport Council, in fact, it was only in favour of the representatives of the administration in that Council and with the abstention of the rest of the representatives, both of the undertakings and of the trade unions, except in the case of the IGC which voted against. And this should call us to a serene but necessary reflection on the content of this document. By the way, we don't see that there were abstentions at the board of directors, so could we. So, we can see that when we talk about the service transport demand, we constantly talk about it as a user-oriented service, as it could not, of course, be otherwise, but in drafting those lines we find ourselves with paragraphs that give us serious doubts about that orientation. I suppose everyone who has a direct responsibility to speak of this non-law proposal knows what that document says. And he speaks in particular of the fact that, for the implementation of low demand management forms, the maximum expansion of the supply of public transport services in rural areas will be promoted; that these demand services will be an essential element as a formula for streamlining resources in areas of high population dispersion; and that in these areas user-oriented services will be designed to communicate with the operator with a centralized system. It lays down three modes of transport which I do not have time to detail, but the master lines themselves give as much as possible the establishment of routes in fixed times being the user — which is very relevant — who demands transport and who needs to adapt to the established service. What you have to adapt to seems more or less reasonable, which requests the service is already less. Why? Because these master lines provide that it is expected that all stops planned for the full service will be carried out along the established itinerary, which have been previously requested and confirmed with the request for requests, it will not be necessary to stop in those cases where no user intends to access or abandon the vehicle. But it is said that it is expected that you can give access to user persons who are found at the stops and did not make the request of the previous service always and when the number of reserved squares is kept empty for the people who requested it. I mean, we can find ourselves in the reality that there are people -- it's not very hard to imagine that older people -- waiting for a bus to pass to them to go to a medical consultation, to go to a hospital, to just go to a market or a supermarket to supply themselves, to see them pass by the bus without stopping because they haven't done the demand or because that bus at that time has all the complete squares because it's already demanded before and it's not required the concessionaire to put on a more capable vehicle. For that reason, and not for the other reason, our parliamentary group has tabled this non-law proposal, in which we ask that the Galician Council effectively power and carry out the transport services on demand in order to ensure the mobility of people in the most neglected rural areas. I think it costs nobody much work to imagine that in these scattered areas, with very little population, besides that population is advanced in age, which makes it very difficult to access new technologies that will be necessary to interact with that platform. And that's why, in addition, our group presented an amendment and came to a transaction with the People's Party in the general policy state debate so that the different demand systems had a functioning fit the user needs profile. So we understand that, in this matter of such transcendence to a very important part and to a certain degree dependent on our population, this autonomous community, we understand that we will have unanimous approval of this initiative. Nothing else on our side and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u249	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Mr Cal Ogong spoke on the part of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u250	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We are going to support this initiative brought by the Socialist Party and, more importantly, we are proposing an amendment to add that we believe is timely for this issue; an amendment that basically consists of a transport table, which we have already seen demanding since all the problems with transport plans began. A transport table where workers, companies, AMPAs, as well as the administrations of deputies as well as municipalities, in addition to Galician Union. We understand that if this table had been set up previously, from the beginning of the plan's development, there would probably not be all the problems that have arisen with regard to this plan. Possibly transporting demand would be working properly. Obviously, what has happened is we can't change it anymore, but we understand that this table, for all that remains to be developed still in the plan, would be very important to try to achieve the best road transport plan possible to Galicia. And that everything that has to do with the public road transport plan, about this process that's been going on for a couple of years, is a real disincentive that finds that we count on an Infrastructure and Mobility Council and an ineffective and incapacitated Government of the West. We understand that this transport table, apart from being the most suitable one to deal with this very important and complex challenge, listening and collaborating with all the agents directly involved and listening to the administrations closest to the citizens who know best what the needs for the transport of their citizenship are, in addition to understanding that it is the most appropriate one, we also understand that it can help overcome this disability that has been shown by the Council of Galicia. And from this intent, of this inability that comes to demonstrate with the transport plan, there is a very clear example, that both the Infrastructure Adviser and the Director General of Mobility, in each debate, every time they talk about the transport plan, in every act, in every parliamentary debate and in every interview, point out that, thanks to the Galician Union, Galicia did not go without road transport, which shows that during the Government of the People's Party there was a risk of road transport in Galicia after seven years: non-small excuse, manifest accusation. They tell the Infrastructure Advisor and the Director General to stop using that argument because if they see the lead. You're the ones who recognize every time they say that, they've put road transport at risk. Because every time they say that they didn't run out of transportation in Galicia they're giving an exceptional connotation to something that should be normal, and that a normal government should understand it as something normal and not something exceptional. For many years, for six years, the Government of Galician Unity has not moved a single finger to renew the transport plan and has not done its work. And then he approved an illegal extension showing, in addition to the waste and taste for the good wine, the inability to manage with guarantees. The first part of the plan came into force in 2016 with the adoption of a regulation following the judgment determining the irregularities committed by the Galician Union in the extensions. But once this regulation was put in place, for not talking to anyone at all and not doing things well, they put the service at risk when 144 companies — half of them we didn't talk about one or two, half of them, most of them small and family businesses — gave up their lines, which forced them to reorganize all the lines. Chapuza after the hat and they went on with their intent. Because the start-up of the first phase, as Mr. Álvarez has already commented, after so many laps and so many shrapnels and irregularities, was full of incidences and complaints, having to modify many of those lines in the following days to, in most cases, return to the initial point. A chapuza that for the Director General of Mobility, for the Infrastructure Advisor, was an absolute success. And, of course, if you put the level of success in a chapuza, in a genuine chapuza, and in risking public transport by road in Galicia, of course!, with that list they will hardly manage, they will make better decisions for the Greeks and the Greeks. But transport demand does not escape all this incapacity. And almost half of Galician municipalities, 42% of Galician municipalities, negatively value the start of transport demand, because, as Mr Álvarez's data well shows, it is not working properly and is not responding to public transport needs, mainly in rural areas. However, the Galician Council, in front of which almost half of the municipalities say it's not working well, says that the problem may be due to ignorance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u251	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u252	...of the operation of the transport model by these municipalities. And of course that's not why. The reason is that transport demand is not working, that everything related to the transport plan that has been made in Galicia's Union is a genuine disincentive. So we'd like this table to be set up by transport so that this huge challenge can be met from there. Because it's fundamental for a country plan, for a Galician development, and it's fundamental for rural people. You're in the rural legislature and you have the opportunity to do something about the countryside. Because all this legislation is going to pass without having anything to boast of what they've done for the countryside in the rural legislature. There's nothing else on our side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u253	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Mr Fernández Prado has the floor on behalf of the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u254	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. The transport services on demand, implemented at this first stage of the public transport plan in Galicia, Mr Álvarez and Mr Cal, are working properly. I know it weighs them. But they're also responding to the demand for mobility in areas where this demand is particularly low. That's why in some cases even there was no transportation before and in others it didn't reach one user a day. That is, in particularly low areas and therefore it wasn't strange that in these areas it was scarce, it was foreseeable that this demand was low, because it goes right to those areas of very low demand. In any case, Mr. Álvarez, compare it with other autonomous communities — a strict person like you — when they are figures that are not homogeneous... we are talking about totally different situations. Castela-León applies it throughout the community, while Galicia has applied only to this point of view, in which the concessionaires have resigned and left the people without this service. Because, Mr. Cal, the exceptionality is that companies have given up, and another more and more usual exceptionality, as we see in the councils where they govern, is that The Tides and the opposition have moved on the side of the companies, not the citizens. These are the same arguments they had before. This is already beginning to be common in places where they rule, putting their interests ahead of those of the citizens. But of course!, also speaking, Mr. Álvarez of Castile-Leon, with a settlement system which does not seem at all at all to the population settlement system of Galicia, I think it is simply to twist things. In any case, thanks to this new service, which I remember is a new service put in rural, would you like, Mr. Cal, a contribution?: here it is, it is already working; it was not previously in the countryside. Yeah, yeah, it's working. It has increased and we have, according to the Council's data, more than 3,000 applications, added to the more than 200,000 empty squares in the shared transport. I think they're services that have not only the social referendum and the satisfaction of citizens but they're providing service and providing public service in areas where we didn't have it before. So I believe that this satisfaction and this new service, the Council of Galicia has just approved maintaining this service, expanding it and extending it to other parts of the autonomous community, as you know. And I don't want to let it happen, Mr. Cal, in connection with your amendment, something that Mr. Álvarez also commented: if for anything this plan is characterized, if for something, we can say it's your participation. If we can say anything about this plan, both in the first and second phases, I would remind you that it was approved by the Galego Transport Council, where all these collectives are represented directly related to the sector. But besides, this new map has been consulted with all the Greek municipalities, all with everyone except one who didn't want to participate, we all know who it is, that it's always the same. In addition, with all the major applicants for mobility, such as health centres, hospitals, educational and non-compulsory schools. The centres of attraction of people such as university campuses and industrial parks, business associations of industrial parks. And more than 25,000 polls were conducted on citizens. You don't think that's too much participation? But, in addition, some of those that you also said in your amendment -- with the transport federation, with the unions, with the AMPAs, all of them were involved and they're going to continue to participate. And now he's in public for that participation. So I think if anything we can say is that he's involved. Mr. Álvarez, you read that resolution that we dealt with in the debate on the state of autonomy, I think it's more ambitious and more respectful of the work that is being done to make this one brought here today in the non-law proposition. And with respect to that, let me also remind you of something you have not read but included: with the participation of municipalities and deputies, who also participate in this service, who also participate, in all their possibilities, in extending this service to other areas. In any case — and after all — it's a service that's working, a new service that's offering that possibility of public transport in areas to people who didn't have it before, was received satisfactorily by the population and that's why this second phase...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u255	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u256	...will expand, extend to the whole of Galicia. And that's why we present this amendment, in order to continue and ensure this service in rural areas that most need it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u257	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Mr Bará Torres has the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u258	Thank you, President. This debate on demand transport and in general on public road transport should be an opportunity, an opportunity, to put forward a debate, a much deeper analysis of the mobility set and for Galicia to have a strategy for sustainable mobility, that other territories of the state are betting on such strategic plans and there is no such thing here. That contemplates all forms of mobility, both natural mobility and public transport by road, also rail or rail transport, and that enhances intermodality. And intermodality is building stations but not just building stations, it's also necessary to encourage interconnectivity, for example, with the single ticket and the shared ticket, in order to connect the different modes of transport. The Council tells us nothing but a new plan to adapt public transport to the 21st century. Without time it wasn't, because the reality is that we have an absolutely obsolete, old-fashioned transport system, which is the result of all the politics that the People's Party has been making for decades, for 34 years of government, granting concessions in a way that had no sense or planning. What they've done all this time was to hide the problem, sweep under the carpet with bandages, with absolute instability in the overall direction of Mobility, where there's no one on the wheel. There's no one on the wheel, or if there's, because really who's in charge, who's in charge there, are those companies that have contracts, these consulting companies, which are actually the ones that charge substantial contracts and govern the policy of public transport in the Union. And they didn't do anything until a Supreme Court court ruling forced them to act. Then there came the rushes, came the improvisations and came this real getaway, which cannot be called any other way, which was that first phase, as you call it, of the Public Transport Plan, which resulted in that for weeks and months they were revoking the real defeat of the consulting companies that charged substantial contracts. And there was a huge deficit of participation in that first phase, and the proof is that it was then the municipalities and the people who had to draw attention to the disincentive that were those new lines, because they didn't make the second phase of participation that was necessary. That was an experiment, an experiment that's going to last for two years, and now companies are waiting — and people too — for the new concessions that will come out of the competition in 2019. You also sold as a novelty the shared transport when it already existed at least since 2007, with the "You Have More Buses" system that set up the two-party government and that you then paralyze, which has already taken the first steps precisely in those areas where there was a need to share the school bus with regular lines. They also announced the bomb and I dish the transport on demand, and really the figures aren't very good there. First of all, you're hiding them, we're still waiting. BNG presented May 2, 2018, eight months ago, the request for reservation call data for on-demand transport, how those calls were managed and who was in charge of the information and dissemination of the service. Eight months later we're still waiting, even though they have all these contracted companies that could look for the data to facilitate the opposition groups. Is this the transparency that the People's Party prays for? This better be hiding and opacity! And now they assume, they suck, with a supposed new plan that's not a plan, for now it's a draft. They're general lines that didn't have a very lucky start because, as the Socialist Party's spokesman told you, they didn't even get the support of the entities that are part of the Galego Transport Council; neither the business associations nor the unions voted in favour of them. And it would not be too much, on the other hand, if you want to participate, if you ask for participation, to bring me here to Parliament for the debate. Look, transportation to demand is really a very complex matter. It has an enormous complexity, from a technical point of view, because of the characteristics of population, the dispersion of population nuclei, that Galicia has. Indeed, we are a different place, not even comparable to Castile-Leon...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u259	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u260	...but if they really want to address this issue seriously, they have to learn from the past, correct the mistakes of the past, open a line of cooperation and dialogue with all administrations, do it with transparency, do it with participation of the sector and all entities related to this subject. It really deserves a serious study and debate, and we are going to vote in favour of this Socialist Party proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u261	Thank you, Mr Bará. Mr. Álvarez Martinez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u262	Thank you very much, Madam President. I appreciate the support for the non-legislative proposal of both En Marea and the Galician Nationalist Block. I understand we'll be able to get into a transaction, or I hope we can get into a transaction with the People's Group. In any case, we accept the amendment to be tabled in Marea, and we accept because, indeed, it includes all sectors which have a very high impact on the development and design of the Galician Public Transport Plan. All those mentioned here must be consulted. Mr. Fernández Prado said they were consulted, I would say with different intensity and with different success. In any case, it is all right to include all entities, groups and persons who will be involved in the operation of that service and who will be heard and consulted. Obviously — as Mr Bará also said a moment ago — the transport service to demand, the Public Transport Plan of Galicia, is an instrument of exceptional complexity, should not be made improvisations. The proof that it was at first was that they had to make a series of last-minute adaptations to put into operation a system that still, as Mr. Cal said, has a wide dissatisfaction in the sector and a high social discontent. With regard to Mr Fernández Prado's intervention — to finish — you said that the system works properly. Well, it works properly when the school transport works, because of course it has the biggest spread of the Spanish state and therefore gives coverage to a very important part of the autonomous community. You tell me I have to make a homogeneous comparison with Castile-Leon. Of course, of course, yes, but it is only that Castile-Leon was introduced as a beacon in this debate by the People's Party. It was you who brought the community of Castile-Leon to this debate, it wasn't us. So let me say that with all the lack of rigour that I can suppose to compare terms that are not homogeneous, use the same autonomous community that you used to make here this adapted transport plan. Look, you said something that I have to beat. If it was such a participated system, how is it that you have so much reply, you were told that you have achieved your approval at the Galego Transport Council? You know you don't. One thing is that he was approved at the Galego Transport Council and another thing is that he was approved by all representatives of the Galego Council except those of the Administration. You know that no one who was not a representative of the Administration approved this project, so that's not an argument. Finally, Madam President, if I am running out of time, I believe that with a plan that is committed to the budgets of the year 2019 and then EUR 13,386,978, you can do something that gives this autonomous community the public transport service that we all deserve and that we will all pay through the budgets of the autonomous community. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u263	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. It'll get us the deal if they come to an agreement. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of da Patricia Otero Rodríguez and da María Dolores Toja Suárez, on the elaboration by the Government of Galicia of an integral nautical-fishing training plan for the Luminous Navy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u264	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u265	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u266	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. This evening, the Socialist Group brings this non-legislative proposal to be debated in the plenary after the replies given in the Commission 8th by the Director General for Fisheries Development of the Galician Union, which has left us extremely concerned, with statements such as the following: that nautical-fishing training is very expensive, that nautical-fishing training in the Navy is covered, although they recognize that it is difficult to access this training and that the courses held in the Navy are only five of them during this year, and only one of them to acquire basic competences. On the one hand, they recognize that access to this training is complicated, and on the other hand, they say that training in the Navy has been sufficient, and yet we have come to recognize that many people prefer to go to courses by paying or moving to other autonomous communities to carry them out. Do you think if you offer training in the Lugo Navy enough, the sea workers would prefer to move to other territories to form or pay in some academies to get this training? What is clear is that the sector is lacking in generational importance and training is fundamental. From the Galician Union they can't say they're going to continue studying needs, there must be immediate approaches. And in the budgets of the Union training in relative terms has not increased compared to the previous year. He doesn't have that weight in the budgets of the Union that the Council itself of Galicia says he has. Focusing on the proposal that we are debating, the fishing sector in the province of Lugo is one of the main economic motors of the region of the Navy, where two of Galicia's largest ports are located: Burela and Celero, not forgetting the rest of the ports of the region, such as Ribadeo, Foz, San Cibrao and O Vice-Vicdo. Burela and Celeiro not only stand out for their sales volumes; in 2017 they moved more than 127 million euros with fishing. The business volume of the fishing sector represents 26% of Galicia's total, and more than 21% of the far-away discharges in our autonomous community come from the Luminous ports, thus converting the Navy into a large fresh fishing line in Europe and thus ratifying the weight it has in the economy and society of the Navy, both for direct and indirect jobs. But Burela and Celero also stand out for their important fleet, in which we must emphasize the high number of large-scale vessels, many of them fishing in international and community waters, which implies the need for a greater number of nautical-fishing titits, as well as a higher level of training. Nearly 18 percent of the ships in the Navy are ready for large tonnage. The demand for trained personnel for the fisheries sector is increasing, as we can see in SEPE reports in Lugo. Within the occupations of difficult coverage, most of these sound from sea professionals. But it's not a matter of time-consuming necessity, as can be seen in the history of these reports. Covering the decks of ships' controls is difficult. It's hard to find captains, patterns and machine personnel. And it's also difficult to find and cover standards and machine posts, when they require more titration. Lately we're starting to get used to hearing that some ships couldn't leave our docks because of crew failure. In Vigo, by setting an example, more than a dozen cases in the past year, and in the Lugo Navy we don't escape this problem. A few weeks ago, a 30-foot longboat had to be moored to the port for several days in Burela because of a captain's failure. But there are many more cases. Cases of high-level patterns that work as sailors because they finish their studies in an official school but need to complement their training with advanced health courses, rescue and fires that are not taught in schools, and they have to go to private academies, paying more than 3,000 euros for this training. And a sailor who needs to renew basic training must also, on many occasions, turn to private centres because of the shortage of supply of this training. It should be recalled that educational activities are transferred to the Autonomous Community, in accordance with Royal Decree 523/2006 of 5 May. If we analyze the offer of training for bridge titles and machines in Galicia, we see that the centres where marine-fishing family cycles are provided are all in the provinces of Coruña and Pontevedra, there is none in the province of Lugo. Today morning the Counsellor acknowledged that training centres were full of people, and many of those people who are on waiting lists for these training centres are people from the Lugo Navy. Certificates of professionalism are the instrument of official accreditation of the professional qualifications of the national professional qualifications catalogue in the field of employment administration. They believe the set of professional competences that enable the development of an identifiable work in the productive system, without which this constitutes a regulation of the professional exercise. They are official and valid throughout the national territory and are issued by SEPE and the competent bodies of the autonomous communities. In addition, we must bear in mind that professionals at sea must have certificates of expertise, which are intended to complete or refine training on certain safety issues or to enable them to exercise certain functions or specialties on ships. These are courses that, once they are done, should also be updated periodically. The order of 31 July 2014 establishing the bases and regulating the procedure for obtaining the titles of seamen, fishermen, fishing pattern and multi-purpose coastal pattern of the autonomous community, in Article 2 thereof, establishes that the authorization, organization, monitoring, control and evaluation of courses and activities regulated in this order corresponds to the fisheries council, through the general management with competence in the field of nautical and maritime-fishing education. In addition, the resolution of 15 September 2016 of the Directorate General for Fisheries Development establishes the method of teleformation for obtaining the nautical-fishing professional qualification of the fishing mariner. But if we focus on the province of Lugo, and more specifically on the Marines, the situation in nautical-fishing is painful, since there is no centre providing vocational training for the nautical-fishing family, focusing — as I said — on the provinces of Coruña or Pontevedra or on the neighbouring autonomous communities. No certificates of professionalism are currently being issued; an old sector claim, which is to be obtained through professional experience. Many years ago, courses were being held in the Celery Fishing Delegation that have now disappeared, some of which are being held in private academies. In case of access to the teleformation offered by the Council of the Sea, they must travel to the provinces of Coruña and Pontevedra to perform the present examinations. The training offer, which can almost be defined as null in the region, requires even courses such as risk prevention courses outside our autonomous community, with the consequent economic cost and the aggravating lack of time for seafarers, especially those of high fishing, where they have to stay on land in a tide to be able to access those courses, without which they could not embark. But the shortage of training isn't only given to bosses and controls, but also to the marine level. We all know, and the sector demands that basic training courses be carried out in the area, and with some assiduity. This lack of training is also seen in the Navy with other collectives, such as the networks, who have been asking the Council of the Sea for training in that area to obtain the certificate of professionalism, since there were great demands and could be discharged in the social security system in order to exercise this profession. In the middle of this year, Depute de Lugo had to ensure free training for 15 red tapes to obtain the certificate of professionalism, thus complementing the training received in 2016. [[Applause]] Well, despite the importance of the fishing sector in the province and the need for sea-fishing personnel to cover the marine fleet's demand and ensure the generational relief, the training supply is not only insufficient, but it is aggravating compared to the rest of Galician coastal provinces. That's why since the Socialist Group we have put forward this non-law proposal, and I'm getting ahead, because surely the spokesperson of the People's Party is going to tell me that, formerly, in 2005, there was a project to have a nautical-fishing school, but I remind you that they have been ruling since 2009 and we are in 2018. For my part, this first intervention is nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u267	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u268	In the morning we put the sea councillor in front of the mirror of the result of the people's policy management, and, in spite of the People's Party, that mirror reflected a result that they didn't like. The result is from many fewer boats, fewer people working in the sea, less rents and less area of the sea. And I'm going to be allowed by the People's Party: the People's Party hasn't been ruling since 2009, the People's Party has been ruling much more in Galicia. For them it seems that the world began in 2009, but no, no, they have a lot more. And they've been running the yellow sea long before! [[Applause]] So we put, I said, the mirror counsellor who results in a loss of more than 30% of vessels in Galicia for the implementation of European Union policies that they so enthusiastically apply. We are now debating this initiative, which is also another mirror. It is another mirror because a country like Galicia, which is eminently expensive; in which we have 1,700 kilometers of coastline; we have 122 fishing ports of competence from the Galician Union and 6 ports of general interest — which means that it is the Spanish State that determines which policies are being applied to them — and the People's Party does not want to hear about transferring them to Galicia; where nautical-fishing training should be a priority in our educational centres, and not only for the crew of ships, those vessels that are being scrapped, but in general nautical-fishing training should be a priority for all activities related to the sea, but the reality is that training, for all matters arising from the sea, is authentically residual in our country. And this, of course, is another mirror in which to look at the fisheries policies of the People's Party. So we find ourselves with fishing training in Galicia is not a priority. The nautical-fishing titles, the titrations, are not a priority. Regular training is not a priority. In unregulated training there are only three centres in Galicia: one in Ferrol, one in Vigo and the other in Ribeira. There is a problem, then, in the headlines, that despite having been titrated and titled—there are the full schools, so to speak—then they do not want to access the boats because there is a lack of incentives, attractive offers capable of channeling these nautical classes towards those bridges and machines which are quite attractive that are the offers. There is a territorial imbalance in the location of training centres. There's a lack of titrations -- as I said -- in regular education. An important part of compulsory qualification is the basis of unregulated education courses; courses with a shorter duration than courses in training cycles. And then there's a security problem from that lax training, because in the approach of that training, designed to do business in many cases, security remains in a second term, a question which is not what I denounce here today, but which was denounced by the sector itself, by the people who receive that training and by professionals in the sector. So this is a matter that we are also concerned about in the BNG and today we are going to vote for this initiative. We are talking about the Marine Lighting, where there is indeed difficulty in accessing the part of this training, which is compulsory to access and then it is compulsory to recycle it, with which we are talking about very important disbursements for these people, when in some cases there are centers within the system and confrereres willing to facilitate this training, but it seems that there is a lack of political will. I say that we are going to vote in favour of this initiative, but that we tabled an amendment to it regarding dual training, because, of course, at BNG we are not in favour of this model, we questioned it in a very obvious way, we consider it to be a bet on the privatization of vocational training. We are faced with a model in which the large economic groups condition criteria and content.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u269	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u270	Finished, President. It's a formative model that has a negative effect; it causes a part of the teacher not to be within the education system; and it is at the service of the employer's interests and not to the service of the people who receive that training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u271	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u272	With which, we voted in favour of the initiative by taking this part of the FP Dual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u273	Thank you. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Vega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have to think about it. When you come here to this atrium, they always say we've been ruling all our lives in Galicia. Hey, because it's because the people of Greece want it. If you voted, we wouldn't rule, but the Greek people would want us to rule. That's what happens. [[Applause]] Many reflections must be made. If a person in the Navy comes here to say that there's no training in the Navy, it's not knowing the territory, and it's not knowing the fishing sector as well. Of course, we're going to deal with this seriously because we don't do politics with fishing, we do fishing politics. Certainly different. When it's said by the BNG that there are only three centers, listen and take note because it's wrong. Wrong knowing it's a lie. And if you're wrong because you don't know, you have to be informed. On the development of a training project, the Council has three centres: Ferrol, Ribeira and Vigo. In addition, Vigo has a national reference centre for innovation fishing. When I told him to take note, the room belongs to the Education, University and Training Council. Of course, if you talk about fishing training here, you don't talk about other things. Training is being done on fisheries. I sit in Culleredo, is that him? That's Galicia. Therefore, training for this council is fundamental and goes with an budget. The budget, Mrs Otero, increases by 9%; that is, more than 9 million euros, devoted to nautical-fishing. That believes a commitment; that believes that we are serious about training for our fishermen. You know, when they say people move and they don't have any help, they keep taking notes. In addition to the Galego Institute for Training in Aquaculture, which is in Vigo, it also provides training on nautical-fishing training. The residence squares have a price and bonus system suitable for all needs, and they have more help. I mean, the people who come to form there have economic benefits. For residence there are also economic aids, and also for locomotives; that is, there is help by the Administration for these people to move to training. And you said there's no training in the Navy. Well, take note, Mrs. Otero: course of Certificate of Understanding, in the class of Celero. It belongs to the county of Viveiro. Course of certificate of seamstress, in Celeiro. Marine Certificate Course in Celero. Course to update the Certificate of Basic Security Training in the confrereria of your people in Burela. There's training in Burela, there's training! Basic Certificate Update Course, in the training class, in Celeiro. Course pattern, in all the Conferrías of the Navy and also in Burela's; look, in his village. For the World Rescue and Safety System Operator course there is also training throughout the Navy; and also in its people, in Burela. The course as an operator, throughout the Navy and also in its people, in Burela. Of course, you have to think about it. Did you come here to do what? Electoralism! I think that's the purpose I had today, to get here and do electoralism because the municipal campaign is coming. I mentioned training in your county. I'll give you the paper, if you like, and you'll read and observe and, consequently, you'll draw a thought to transfer it to the marine neighbours: that there is training for sailors, for fishermen, in our region. So we'll continue to bet on training. If the budget increases by 4%, i.e. more than 10 million euros in training for our fishermen, we are acquiring a loyal and absolute commitment. In formation for 2019, all those courses that I just told you, as a boss, are the commitment of this government. So there's not a cut in training, but we're going to move on. So, you know what the difference is? That we don't do this coming here and announcing and asking. No, no, no, no. We work the hands of the sector, and this is what we do with the sector. We tabled a replacement amendment. You've already told me no, and I'm sorry. I'm sorry you told me not because we were able to reach a big deal, a big pact, between two marine neighbours who want to work — I hope it's for you — for the sector and for the region. But well, as you're going to say no, I know you don't leave it in your party, because I already tell you that we're going to turn this amendment into a GNP. So let's do it. Why? Because we have the votes, because the Greek people want it that way and because the Greek people give us an absolute majority...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u275	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u276	...because he knows about our commitment. Less fishing policy and more fishing policy. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u277	Thank you, Mr. Vega. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Miranda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u278	Good afternoon, Mr. President. I'll try to be concise because you look tired, and you'll have a fraternity exercise with the PSOE's deputy because the tone of the People's Party's companion was, to some extent, a bit aggressive. [[Applause]] In my adolescence, in the neighbouring neighborhood of the proponent and that of Mr. Vega, Ortegal, the unstudyed boys went to sea and the unstudyed girls went to the conservatory. Obviously, this is a model to be overcome not so much by division by genres of work, but by the need to professionalize and dignify a sector, which is the sea, which must be looked after for its relevance in our history, in our culture, in our anthropology and, above all, in our economy. The Navy is a region in which, as its own name indicates, the sea is of paramount importance in the lives of its people, enriched, in addition, by other cultures like caboverdian through numerous sailors who came to catch Burela, Celero, the Viceroy, San Cibrao, Ribadeo and Foz and brought with them their families. A major evidence was the presence of children with racial diversity this morning in Parliament. The marine fisheries sector closed last year with more than 134 million euros of billing. Burela and Celeiro together turn the Navy into a large fresh fish and seafood range in Europe and confirm their weight in the economy of the region, both in direct and indirect positions. The Burela strip is the main part of the county and the second part of Galicia by billing, 22 million kilos of fresh fish and seafood, worth 73 million euros. Celeiro's billing exceeded last year EUR 53 million, and to a lesser extent the other ports of the region. We're talking about a fleet of 176 fishing vessels and nothing less than 727 people employed in the sea sector all over the region. No doubt an activity to be taken into account. But far from this activity, I refer to my companions who are lacking staff to work at sea. Lack of expectations for the future, the very hardness of work, the uncertainty that generates fishing with the quota system are elements that hinder professional incorporation into this sector, and this compromises the generational relief. In addition, it is necessary to take into account — as mentioned here — the needs for improvement in wages and safety. The sea, in addition to a way of life, deserves to be for its people a safe, profitable, dignified and professional environment, and a consolidated source of wealth for our country with a future perspective; and the Administration must work to guarantee it. The technological advances, the recommendations of international maritime organizations on minimum levels of training for mariners, the regulatory changes to obtain the title of coast pattern, fishing pattern and fishing mariners, or fishing mariners make it necessary to update teachers. In addition, it is necessary to consider the peculiarities of the Greek coast, which require greater attention in matters of security. Another vital element for the dignity of this sector is the formation of the people who work in it, which is what we are talking about today. To that end, nautical-fishing training and courses for revalidation of competition are of vital importance, but in our country we have four official sea-fishing centres: in Vigo, Ferrol, Ribeira and The Island, in this case for aquaculture, effectively remaining the north of badly supplied Lugo despite its need, despite that centre of Culleredo mentioned by Mr Vega. The nearest training centre to Burela is Ferrol, and it's on the road at an hour and a half. Regularization and professionalization of the world of the sea is necessary to optimize it, but this is achieved only with resources, with incentives and with commitment from administrations. The proposal we are debating also alludes — as we agree — to the comparative aggravation that is once again established between the centralism of the Atlantic arc, where we are indeed all sea-fishing schools — including Culleredo — and the coast of Lugo, in a new finding of a territorial imbalance that we aspire to combat. Above all, if we take into account the relevance of the luxury coast in the fisheries sector. In advance, Mrs Otero, we shall vote in favour of the initiative. Training is relevant. I'm afraid this won't be able to overcome those old roles of women and men in the world of the sea, that would require another kind of change, but every step will be welcome. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Miranda. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u280	Thank you, President. Mr. Vega, most of them absolute yes, a lot, but little work ability. Why didn't they present that LNP before? Did I have to come here, Burela's, put the theme on the table so you guys could get to work? [[Applause]] So most absolutes are for something more than to say that we have an absolute majority but we don't work in harmony with that. Of course, I'll go to Burela to transfer it to my neighbours, I recommend that, by the way, my party, the Socialist Party, also governs with most absolute but does things, and you may not be able to say the same thing when you go to your county, where for all the time they change the candidate by the PP, I don't think it gives them many better election results than they have today. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, we'll see. In Ribadeo, we'll see [[Laughter]] You want to keep leaving the Navy, but in the Navy and in the province of Lugo we're already used to PP having us left behind and denying us the services that are given elsewhere in our autonomous community. And of course, Mr. Vega, what did we come to do here?, politics? Because I don't come here to play cards. I'm not ashamed to say I come here to make politics, and everyone we're here I think we've seen the same, we haven't seen the time. [[Applause]] I didn't say there was no training, I said nautical-fishing training in the Navy was scarce, and I called it five courses during 2018. But do you really believe that five nautical-fishing courses for the marine region are sufficient? You say you work with the sector, of course! But as it was also recognized here in the morning, with a part of the sector, they don't listen to all parts of the sector, because the vast majority of the sector is demanding this training that isn't being done in the Navy. Of course, we cannot accept the substitution amendment presented by the People's Party because it does not collect and guarantee all the professional training we want it to have in the Navy. Thank you to En Marea for supporting this initiative, I understand that BNG too, but what we cannot accept is the amendment of BNG because for us the dual training that requires a part of the sector is very important and is making great progress in other autonomous communities close to us. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u281	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García and Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez, on the defence by the Government of Greece of a strategic plan for Galicia towards the next period of the Common Agricultural Policy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u282	There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u283	Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u284	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. Given the hours that are and the tiredness that we all have, speaking now about the CAP and about the articulate can be a little tedious. But well, I'll try to be as concise as possible. In August this same year, the former rural adviser, Mrs Vázquez, signed with some agricultural organizations — not with all — and with some cooperatives a document reflecting the Government's institutional position on reforming the common agricultural policy. The document was delivered to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food for Galician arrivals to be present in Spain as a Member State of the European Union. The text called for a single strategic plan by state, for the aid of the CAP, which would collect the singularities of each autonomous community. So the Union fixed the position of the Autonomous Community in view of the future common agricultural policy, the object of which it had been the guarantor and consequence of a profitable, sustainable and innovative regional agricultural sector, which had fixed the population in rural areas. At the first point of this document it was literally said that the committee maintained the proposal that each country could design a model of its own application, drawing up a national strategic plan, giving Member States more capacity to adapt the CAP to its territorial, productive and sectoral reality. Later on, this document added that we considered it essential that, as the draft regulation establishes, there should be a single Strategic Plan of the CAP by Member State. The new regulation should establish uniform criteria for all States. The Galician Union opted to demand this only strategic plan, in line with what the former Central Government had already done, as well as the current Central Government. This, to some extent, contradicted the desire expressed by the Rural Environment to meet the differences and peculiarities of each region or autonomous community. The Common Agricultural Policy, more known as the CAP, was a tool created in 1962. It has been one of the fundamental policies and is an essential element in the institutional system within the European Economic Community for two strategic sectors such as agriculture and livestock. Its objectives are set out in Article 39 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and are as follows: increasing agricultural productivity — today in Galicia is not being met and, more importantly, it is a falling sector — ensuring a fair standard of living throughout agricultural production — today in Galicia is not being met — and stabilising markets — it is not being met either in Galicia or in the state as a whole —; ensuring security of supplies and ensuring consumer supply at reasonable prices and quality food — not being met either. None of these objectives are being met today. In 2017 the European Commission sent the communication to make the legislative proposals. The Rural Environment Council, together with some agricultural and cooperative organisations, has prepared this document, which is currently under discussion in Brussels. The measures contained in this document were signed by the Unions Agrarians, by Asaga, by the Galician Association of Agri-Food Cooperatives - Agaca - or by the CLUN Cooperative. The agreement was transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture to incorporate this joint position from all over the Spanish territory on the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy. In the German agricultural sector, an agreement was reached on the following bases, second, in addition, the Council explained both in a statement and in the Council's question of En Marea made to it 15 days ago: to retain funding exclusively from European funds for direct aid to the CAP in order to prevent differences between producers depending on the support of each Member State, in favour of the Government of Greece that there is a single plan per State but — there was the advice — that the internal characteristics of agricultural production and raw materials are recognized — and, in some respects, they are giving us some reason to this proposal of law that we bring — to make a maximum level of aid for the exploitation of EUR 100,000; to regulate measures that allow for faster response to price swings of agricultural products and raw materials; to give us some reason for this proposal of each farm; to increase the associated aid in a way that makes up a large part of the direct aid; to set up measures to respond more rapidly to the price fluctuations of agricultural products; to replace the agricultural products; to replace the agricultural sector, to replace the agricultural sector's even pay them in terms. Of course, this explained so by the counsellor in the last plenary session, the truth is that even sounds good, but we, from En Marea, believe that there are some things left to point out. The first is that we see that it is necessary to define who will be the perceiver of the CAP. We have to establish what a genuine farmer is going to be — not yet defined —. In order to collect the aid, it must be required that at least 50% of the income comes from agricultural activity, and that person who receives these funds who spend more than 50% of his working time on agriculture, unless we finally fix population in rural areas and we have empty villages. The historic rights we, from En Marea, understand that they must disappear. We cannot ignore the importance of the CAP for Galicia, Galicia is an eminently rural people, it is a livestock people, agrarian people, who have to take this opportunity to attract and fix the population, to involve these key sectors in our country and to improve the social and economic fabric that enables them to develop these activities without having to use emigration, ensuring an equitable standard of living for farmers and farmers, and also ensuring prices for food for consumers. It is a great opportunity for Galicia to ensure that by fulfilling the nine objectives set out in the CAP it will contribute to improving these strategic sectors. Yesterday the deadline for tabling amendments to the Regulation and to the reports of the European Parliament on the common agricultural policy was ended. We have entities like the Via Campesina that are developing a campaign across Europe to insist on the need to define a sustainable agricultural model that constitutes genuine support in rural areas. The current CAP and draft of the following CAP to En Marea are not valid for you. The future CAP must guarantee fair income to farmers and farmers, equal to the rest of the professions, and respond to society's expectations. This implies the transition of all European farms to more sustainable models and to agricultural agro-ecology: preserving the environment, preserving the climate and ensuring quality food for all citizens, including the most disadvantaged people. And for this we need public policies that regulate markets. None of this is happening today if you're talking about it in Galicia. In addition, we have some fundamental demands such as maintaining agricultural and farming activity oriented towards food production in all rural territories and giving priority to peasant youth. But not only during the early years of youth but also in the distribution of aid and the reservation of payment rights. We must set a mandatory top of direct payments — as you propose — but we can give it back and lower a little, perhaps, that amount that you announced from 100,000 euros and with a 50% deduction of labour costs on a real contract, and with a maximum limitation to the number of workers or workers. These programmes should also be limited to these aids: to grant compulsory direct payment to small-scale farmers and farmers from a minimum aid value, to maintain the current level of aid coupled and not to accept that crops intended for agro-fuels benefit from such aid. Those farms based on agro-ecological models must be recognized within the ecosystems, and the latter must be an aid and support to systems and models for climate and the environment. And not specific practical help within an intensive model and agricultural system. Since En Marea we have strongly rejected compulsory funding for agricultural insurance to deal with market crises, agri-insurance. Risk management must be understood by public policies, such as — as we have said before — regulation of these markets. And all aid to farmers and farmers must be subject to the fulfilment of a series of common requirements relating to the reception rights of workers and agricultural workers, since this implies the inclusion of a social conditionality of the CAP which it does not have right now. Our demands are the demands of a large part of European society, why, because we ask to support a sustainable agricultural model that is fair and healthy for peasantry, citizenship and the environment in the context of Galicia. And, well, from there we ask — as we have already asked in the last plenary — that Galicia be strong, that it have a strategic plan of its own towards the next period of the CAP. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u285	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u286	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, at this hour of evening, good afternoon, anyway. Counselor, good afternoon and welcome. The Socialist Group appreciates its presence on an issue as relevant to the rural environment and as relevant to Galicia as the coming times of the Common Agricultural Policy. The reform of the common agricultural policy for the period 2021-2027 will have a worthy role in this House in the coming months. It will have a role in this House, but it will also have a role in society and, above all, in rural areas. A rural world in need of active policies and resources needed to develop all its potential. And the common agricultural policy can, moreover, and must be that tool, that instrument that potentiates the rural environment in multiple facets. Its relevant role we have already realised today and tomorrow, tomorrow, with an interpellation on this issue and today with the proposal not of En Marea law that we are debating. By the way, tomorrow's inquiry also ensures that the CAP is present in the next plenary session when the relevant motion is debated. In this bill, the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea proposes that the German Parliament urge the European Parliament to defend that Galicia has a strategic plan of its own towards the next period of the CAP. I recognize that this own strategic plan, as formulated, produces uncertainty with regard to its recipient: directly to the European Commission or incardinated in the strategic plan of the State? That's why we tabled an amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I will recall some questions about the processing of the common agricultural policy, the next period of the common agricultural policy. Article 93 of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 2018/2016, the architecture of the strategic plans of the CAP, provides that each Member State shall establish a single strategic plan of the CAP for all its territory. However, it also opens the door for the elements of the CAP's strategic plan to be established at a regional level. Article 94(3) states: "Each Member State shall establish an association with the competent local and regional authorities and that association shall include at least some interlocutors such as the relevant public authorities, the economic and social partners, the relevant bodies representing civil society and, where appropriate, the bodies responsible for promoting social inclusion, fundamental rights and gender equality and non-discrimination". Member States shall ensure that such interlocutors participate in the elaboration of the Strategic Plan of the CAP. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food in its document entitled The Common Agricultural Policy post 2020, a response from Spain of 12 November 2018 establishes, inter alia, that Spain is committed to a common strategic plan for preserving the role of autonomous communities in the second pillar. We understand that the strategic plan must be made in accordance with the constitutional division of competences in our country between the state and the autonomous communities. It defends the existence of a national strategic plan in whose collaboration the autonomous communities must play a key role both in the intervention of the first pier and, in particular, in the interventions of the second pier. The strategic plan must be an opportunity to improve synergies between the measures of the first and second pillars to achieve the common objectives of the CAP. The intervention of the first pillar must continue to have a national character, while those of the second pillar must have a regional vocation when designed by the autonomous communities, because they are the best aware of the reality and needs of their territories. The governance model of the strategic plan should incorporate the authorities of the autonomous management communities, while ensuring the necessary coordination at the state level. Ladies and gentlemen, the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and the document of the Ministry of Agriculture The Common Agricultural Policy post 2020, a response from Spain is very concrete and precise about the content, processing and role of the different administrations. Each Member State shall establish a single strategic plan of the CAP for all its territory. And each Member State will provide an association with the competent local and regional authorities to promote consideration of its specific elements...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u287	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u288	...of its singularity, actively participating in this in the elaboration and management of the Spanish strategic plan. As I have already stated, the formulation of this non-legislative proposal leads us to uncertainty, and that is why we are presenting an amendment that seeks to place this initiative in the only possible area, such as the contribution to the exclusive strategic plan of the CAP for the entire Spanish territory. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u289	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Fernández. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u290	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counselor. Uniform criteria for each State in a non-uniform State. Our agriculture and livestock has many pending accounts, it has its own characteristics and it needs a different treatment. Nothing has to do with climate, soil, distribution of property, size of plots, crops... with the Meseta or the Mediterranean. If we have full skills in agriculture, the logical thing is that we have a strategic plan of our own. The law can say whatever you want, here we are to change the laws. Here we are to change the laws. Here, in Europe and in the state, we're for that. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And if a law is not fair and discriminatory with our country -- that's a country! -- if it's discriminatory with our country, we must fight for that not to be so. A single state plan, without anything that recognizes and positively assesses our needs, subordinated to the interests of the State, is useless. We've sung that song too many times, and so we were left bitter in the chest and soul. The Galician Union ruled by the People's Party opts for sacrifice and demands a single plan as before, as always, Galicia doesn't count, total for what's left! But this period 2021-2027 will be crucial, in which the conditions will be prepared so that in 2027 the market will be fully liberalized. This is about an exaggerated reduction in the global budget and a gradual loss of weight of funds for the CAP. We also saw the progressive discrimination of the various intervention mechanisms in agricultural markets without this trend changing, not even in the proposals for 2021-2027, despite the growing volatility of the markets. So let's go to pure and harsh liberalisation; that of insurance at price falls is a clear example of what comes to us. Agricultural income per farm in Galicia is the lowest in Europe due to the low territorial base. The redistributive payment, paying more for the first acres, how do we set the number of these?, with whom, who will set the criteria?: State?, the Andalusian landowners and plateaus? The advisory service — impreciable — will have to be defined whether it will be public or private. That's not to say, not to wake up, not to speak. To establish lines of support for farms with practices beneficial to the environment and more stringent than legally enforceable, a reduction of direct payments up to EUR 60,000, taking into account associated holdings and with workers. Direct aid must be linked to the maintenance of agricultural activity even though it is decoupled from concrete production and, above all, from production volumes. Income support should not be based on historical rights or uniform payment per hectare. We should be walking towards a single aid for the whole of the Union per unit of work, with modulation depending on the size of the farms and other criteria. We must consider a minimum percentage of funds devoted to redistributive aid which is compulsory for the Member States. This could be 30%, which was the limit of the 2014-2020 period, and should also be fixed a maximum number of hectares per holding, considering the exceptionalness of the associated holdings we have here. It's not enough for the autonomous communities to manage the second pillar. What if we have transferred the agricultural policies, which we manage, let us say how to manage it! Look, ladies and gentlemen, it's a lot of objective reasons that support the need for a Greek strategic plan, that this contemplates the reality of our agriculture today, what we can do in the future and act accordingly. To abandon the complexes of wanting to live in another reality and to fulfill the duty to defend the agricultural viability of this country, of the Greeks, must be the only priority against anyone. We first, even if it's for once. If the liberalisation of agricultural markets takes place, and everything indicates that it will be, it has to take on the duties done, Counsellor. There's still time, let's take advantage of it. Tomorrow we'll have more, it's getting late, and now it's almost always night.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u291	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Thank you, Counselor, for being present in this important debate. I wanted to focus a little bit on what was said here, because of what is written or what is being said and after what is said here, it changes quite a bit. What I have to tell you is that during the last two years, the German Government has done a good job of information, participation and debate and, after dozens of meetings, formative days and even the attendance of the previous advisor in this plenary session to address the reform of the CAP, on 22 August, as Mr. Spokesman of En Marea acknowledged, a document was signed with the representatives of the agricultural and cooperative professional associations. After listening to everyone, as you recognize yourself. It will therefore agree with us that a good work of participation and debate has been done. In that document sent to the Ministry to be included in that national strategy, it was said that the CAP had to be a prominently common policy, based on two pillars: direct aid and rural development; to establish measures that recognize the peculiarities of each territory; to encourage the incorporation of young people into agricultural activity; to raise generational importance; to compensate for fluctuations in product prices; to simplify administration; to agree on the figure of the Genuine farmer; to defend historical rights; to positive discrimination for mountain areas with natural limitations; and to establish a distributive aid where the amount of the first hectares is greater than that of the rest, in clear support of small and medium-sized farms. Therefore, the hands of the sector are defending Galicia's interests but respecting the current institutional framework. Mr. Rivas said he gave more than the law says! The law can change, yes, but it can be changed by democratic channels, not when we happen or we care. And why was this done like this? The development of a single strategic plan by State contributes to strengthening Spain's position as a whole and, consequently, also that of Galicia in the European context. If Spain had 17 agricultural models, in addition to losing its negotiating capacity to the European Union, the internal market plan would be broken. As Mr. Alderman of Galicia told you, the presentation of a strategic plan of the CAP by Member State is not an option, it is a regulatory requirement, as Article 106 states, or even Article 93 says, "Each Member State will establish a single strategic plan of the CAP for all its territory." This article is based on recital 55, which states: "In order to ensure that the strategic plans of the CAP have a clearly strategic dimension and facilitate their linkage with other policies of the Union, there is only one strategic plan per Member State." Therefore, Mr. Spokesman of En Marea, we do not understand that they continue with the fear that Galicia can present its own plan without providing any data supporting its information. See, today, I could do it in two ways: firstly, to quote the articles of the regulation which refer to the Member State's regions as being able to present their own plan; or — which you have omitted today — as an example of the own plans that you have presented to the Basque Country or Catalonia that you use as a reference. You lost that opportunity today. Because he didn't, what do we have left? Well, the usual: empty phrases, populism, demagogy. But, look, as much as you care for them, Galicia is now an autonomous community within the Spanish State, which has a constitution that, by the way, we put in value that has granted us the highest levels of self-government and never dreamed well-being. We value it: a community within the Spanish nation, to which the negotiations before the European courts correspond as a Member State. [[Applause]] So they do not argue again that this false claim that Galicia refuses to submit its own plan, because how are we going to give up presenting something that the European standard does not allow? Why do people lie? But you know what if we give up, what am I going to tell you?: the failure to comply with the European Regulation; we refuse to try to go our own way, in a clear demonstration of lack of solidarity and loyalty with the Government of the nation and with the rest of Spain. And we give up the fact that we can make comparative aggravations with other farmers and farmers from autonomous sister communities. You imagine, for example, that there are farmers in other communities who pay the quota and others don't. You know what I mean, don't you? You know that a lot: what it means to pay the quota and not to pay the quota. We are not surprised that, in contrast to that letter, they do not want to comply with European Union rules and do not want to be part of a national strategy with the Government of the State. We are aware that both the BNG and the Tide will support any position that might weaken the Spanish state. And in those disruptive cravings of each one to go to his own, as we can see one day itself and another also, they clearly support everything he does and happens in Catalonia, it's his mirror, they're the experts to go on their own at all. By the way, I don't know if you know that the representation of the councillor of Galician Rural on behalf of all autonomous communities was granted after the resignation of Catalonia. It's going to be like that, isn't it? Go to Brussels to negotiate with the Minister on behalf of the country and communities with whom they want nothing to do with it. It's going to be so bad! And to BNG I want to tell you that who, in addition to sharing radicalism and independence, chooses as partners with Bildu or the Republican Left, with that poster it's hard to defend the concept of strategy... [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u293	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u294	...together of the state. 'Finished.' That is why it is right to defend Spain, Mr Rivas and Mr Rodríguez, Spain as a Member State of the European Union; and to work together, from the utmost loyalty to the Ministry and the rest of the communities, in a process that will be long and difficult. Ladies and gentlemen of the Tides, that together, units... what do you suggest? Don't you realize that living in confrontation and continuing reading isn't good? [[Applause]] We're playing a lot of games to walk around with internal fights when what we need to do is get close...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u295	Finish. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u296	...within a great plan where all the peculiarities of Galicia lie...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u297	Quiet. This ends when I say so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u298	...and we can make our weight of who is the leader...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u299	Quiet, quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u300	...in milk or meat production with quality stamp...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u301	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u302	...at the national level.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u303	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u304	We put our tender hand again, add to the deal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u305	Thank you. Mr. Lago, tell me about the weather. Tell me about the weather...! You'd also tell me about those benches, wouldn't you? [[Murmurs.]] Well, they all help with the subject of time, which I already know I have no problem, for me as if we stayed here until tomorrow, I have no problem. No, no, I have no problem, eh! [[Murmurs.]] There are no more cows than these, so I'm sorry, there you are. [[Laughter]] Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u306	Thank you, President. I think the People's Party is... a good news, that with speeches like Mr. White Paradelo here, Vox's won't have much to smell. Then give him the compliment. On the subject of the Constitution, I think the People's Party has little to talk about when half of the rights that affect people, how they can be housing, or what they can be work, are you no longer so constitutionalists. And then, to the rest of the nonsense that Mr. Blanco Paradelo has released out of his mouth, I'm not going to answer because they don't deserve that. [[Murmurs.]] First, I also want to thank the counselor who is here today in this debate because I seldom saw us bring a non-law proposition and that the counselor or advisor was here, so thank you. I also thank him because the other day he left an articulated to the president who, by the way, came to me and I've been watching. I've been reading some annotations that you put on me and, indeed, there are some points where you can see enough... where you can guess that it's not possible to make a strategic plan. But then there are other points, which you didn't underline, I suppose because you didn't see them, where it certainly gives rise to Galicia's own strategic plan. Look, you have underlined 55, where you see this possibility, but the following point, point 56 of the articulate, which, of course, brought, Mr Paradelo, says: "In developing the strategic plans of the CAP, Member States should analyse their situation and specific needs, set targets related to achieving the objectives of the CAP and devise interventions to achieve these goals, adapting them, however, to specific national and regional contexts if necessary." In addition, in 57, it says: "In order to ensure that Member States set targets, and that the design of interventions is appropriate and maximize the contribution of CAP objectives, it is necessary to base the strategy of such plans on a prior analysis of local contexts." These articles are also. Then, to finish, on Mr. Fernández's amendment, we won't accept it. We are not going to accept it because, at the end of the day, you refer to an article, which is Article 93, which states that each Member State will establish a single strategic plan of the CAP for its territory. Although it is also true that this article continues to say that when the elements of the CAP strategic plan are established at regional level, the Member State will ensure its cohesion and coherence. But in your own amendment, you refer to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, in the document entitled The Common Agricultural Policy for 2020, and in that document we see a fully centralist model, and I think that is not the best way to adapt to our autonomous community. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-04-DSPG094.u307	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Well, it wasn't that much, it wasn't so, fifteen minutes about the schedule; therefore, it wasn't so much. I was planning to finish the plenary at eight o'clock. Yes, fifteen minutes on schedule. Well, it didn't go that far. [[Protests.]] See you tomorrow.
