ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u1	Good morning. Let's start at the session. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. No more, we're on the agenda with point one. Mr. Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice, on his own request, to report on the actions for the development of the State Covenant against Gender Violence in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u2	To make this appearance, Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I compare — as the President has just said — on behalf of the Council of Galicia, and on his own request, to inform the House of the actions that have been developed, those that we are developing and, above all — the main object of the appearance — those that will be taken over from the Council of Galicia, I hope that with the collaboration and proposals of all of us, in the coming months and years, in connection with the development of the State Pact against Gender Violence. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen — we have often spoken about this — violence against men is still very present in our society today, both in Galicia and in the state as a whole. In short, it remains present in our lives, there is only one thing — to provide the most painful data, there are many more — to remember that in the course of the year three women were already murdered in Galicia: Magdalena Moreira, Maria Judith Martins and Ana Belén Varela — three in Galicia, forty-three in the state as a whole, and three minors. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this shocking data keeps us thinking that we must continue to articulate measures. I'm going to give some more data to frame the situation we all know. In the first half of this year 2018, almost 3,000 complaints were received in Galicia for gender-based violence, complaints received in the Greek courts. This is a good data in the sense that the number of complaints grows, it's not in which this proves that there are also denouncing situations; but at least the number of complaints increases and we believe that this is good. The worst thing is, there are situations that are not reported. 80,000 have been throughout Spain, I say nearly three thousand in the Greek courts. Also in the public network of assistance resources, data gives an idea of the magnitude of the problem. In the first half of the year, in the 1980s and a women's information center that has the Galician Union in collaboration with the municipalities, four thousand and seventy-fifty were received and a consultation on gender violence. Psychological care services served nearly six hundred people. And in the reception network a total of ninety women and seventy-four minors were housed. And one last fact: direct aid to victims was granted to nearly three hundred, to 200 and three women, to help them start a new life away from male violence. Besides, as I said, we know that, unfortunately, this data is only the tip of the iceberg of the masculine violence, the most visible part, but there are many women who continue to suffer the silent masculine violence, silenced by fear, silenced by the situation of dependence on whatever reason they are; ultimately, because they do not see a way out of the situation they are suffering. So the obligation of administrations is to know that there is the administrative apparatus and the climate of trust that must be given to them to take that first step out of the violence. If you go to a police station or the courthouse, you call 016, you go to your CIM, or you finally go to any public resource or social service, you're going to be duly heard and attended to start getting out of that nightmare situation. From then on, an integral network of care is going to be activated so that, within the difficulty of being your situation, everything will be done in at least in a more agile and as dramatic a way as possible. And, on the other hand, we have to keep conscious to prevent these situations and prevent them from happening, or at least prevent them from happening with the intensity with which they are happening many times. From school -- no doubt, that's one of the keys, education -- but also with older people, adults, so that they always go out in defense of those who are being subjected to macho violence; so that neighbours and neighbors don't have enough; so that at work they don't shut themselves up in situations of harassment; so that, finally, they don't consider themselves normal what for a long time and in many environments, unfortunately, seemed something normal. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, these are obligations that involve us in all administrations. A person's life is not divided by administrative powers. You can't tell a victim of macho violence: this is the responsibility of an administration, this is the competence of another. This is about addressing this whole scenario in an integral way, so coordination, coordination and more coordination. The object of this appearance, and of course, the obligation and duty of the Administration, is to propose measures within the State Covenant, but we also await their proposals. I hope that at the end we will be able to put into effect, as before, all these measures in a consensual way and gathering contributions from all over the world, which I think here everyone has a lot to say. This will of coordination, this will of consensus, is also at the root of the State Covenant. To recall that in the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, in November 2016, a non-law proposal was unanimously adopted to promote this State Covenant. That's where it all started. From then on, the General Courts began their work. In Congress, in committees, sixty-six persons expert in violence against women. In the Senate, a presentation in which fifty-two experts appeared. In the Senate itself, in addition, following the agreement of the Conference of Presidents which took place in January 2017, the convening of the General Commission of the Autonomous Communities to discuss approaches to the State Pact. I had the privilege of representing the Autonomous Community of Galicia, in addition to the consensus of this House. We adopted it unanimously on 1 March and it was transmitted to the Senate on 9 March 2017. That is why I insist that, if we were able at the time to convey a unanimous position of the House on this subject, we should now be able to consent at least many of the measures to be taken within the State Pact. Following the genesis of the State Covenant, remember that on September 13, the Senate Plenary unanimously approved its Report. And fifteen days later the Congress would also approve -- this time it was not unanimously, with the abstention of Podemos and part of the Joint Group -- its report for a state pact on gender violence. Then the Government of the State decided — I believe in an absolutely logical and understandable movement — to consensualize the measures of both chambers in a single document. And in the end, the State Pact consisted of ten thematic axes containing about 300 measures to be implemented by different administrations. In July 2017, the Government announced the budgetary allocation of the necessary State Pact to carry it out, a total of EUR 1 billion for five years. In total: 100 million for local entities, 500 for autonomous communities and 400 million to develop state competences, all this, within the state's general budgets. In addition, the creation of six working groups to develop those axes was agreed upon with the autonomous communities, and a number of priority measures were also established, together with the FEMP, to develop them first. It is true, and it cannot be obvious from this chronology of the State Covenant that I have now ended, that a motion of censure, June 1, 2018, has changed the Government. It is also true that in July, the new Government called on the autonomous communities to quantify what had already been established; to decide and implement the distribution of funds provided for in accordance with the criteria set out above. It is true that other commitments, such as the creation of the working groups and the priority measures to be taken in the first place, have not yet been carried out, but it is fair to acknowledge that the quantities — I insist — have already come from before, and the 8 million euros corresponding to the Autonomous Community of Galicia have entered at the end of October. And logically, as all autonomous communities — not only Galicia, but all of them — have requested, at the end of October, these funds must be incorporable, in order to start executing them already this year, in the part that has given time, but, of course, by addressing, together with the next year, a global action over 2019. I insist on which part you can start running — we're going to do it, and so I'll report it now — this year 2018. One thing to say, we have a lot of work ahead of time in Galicia. Many of the provisions of the State Covenant, these 300 measures, were already contained in Law 11/2007, for the comprehensive prevention and treatment of gender-based violence. It was a very early law for the time when it was approved, more than ten years ago, unanimously adopted — I think I remember — in this House, and therefore allows us to have quite a lot of advanced work. We are talking about such relevant aspects, already foreseen in Galicia, such as the consideration as gender-based violence of forms of violence against women beyond the scope of the couple or the former couple. And also the possibility for social services to believe as such a victim without the need of a previous judicial sentence. That which is now incorporated into the State Covenant, was already planned in Galicia. We are also moving forward in other areas, over these years, which now come into the State Pact: the introduction in the teaching of equal values of opportunities in the educational field; work with the media to avoid sexism; the strengthening of equal training for the personnel of the Self-Government and public administrations in general; improving coordination with other administrations; care for the children and children of the victims, as well as for the mothers whose children and daughters are murdered by their batter; and the promotion of coordination between different administrations in rural and local areas. All that comes now as the axes of the State Covenant, it was already planned and was being developed since the Greek Law of the year 2007. By making a small summary of what I just said, we could say that more than half — about 56% — of the provisions of the current State Pact which is now beginning to develop was already begun or was being developed in Galicia. This does not mean that there is no margin of improvement — of course there is — and that there are no new measures to be taken. When I came to Commission 1st because of the budgets of the Vice-President, I had already taken four measures, the four that we wanted to develop immediately, counting that there had already been a contribution of money this same year — which, I say, arrived just two weeks ago — which are added to the others who make up the State Pact, which we will be in fourteen measures, and which now I am going to report. Of these four more immediate measures — on the line too, by the way, of what had been done before the State Pact was adopted, saying that there were a number of priority measures that had to be done now — the first is to start working together. Yesterday we signed the agreement with the Galician College of Psychology to put in place — to understand us — a psychological guard shift — as well as with the lawyers and prosecutors — that specialises in the attention of victims of gender-based violence and that has a permanent character. It is in the State Covenant, it is measure 72. We will allocate EUR 350,000 in principle and we will see how it evolves according to demand. We have already begun immediately with the training of these professionals to do this specific work, and with all the administrative coordination work to get incardinated on the shifts, just as lawyers and prosecutors do now; of course also in contact with the Judiciary and the Prosecutor's Office. This attention — which will always be, I say, permanent and specialized character, of urgency — will be developed at the police station when necessary, at the judicial office and at the home itself. And it will be activated, in principle, the requirement of state security forces and bodies as soon as they have knowledge of a victim who is approaching to make a complaint. The second step we wanted to put in place immediately is the Strategic Plan of integral care for minors and orphans. It is in measures 172 and 210 of the State Covenant. What does it consist of? In that whenever the family of the children or children so manifests, the Council of Galicia will first assume the costs of the burial of their mothers, if they are murdered, including the costs of transfer, burial and incineration. This seems very obvious, until now it was not done here or if it was doing anywhere else, at least we had news. We're going to activate, in addition, an economic compensation for orphans and orphans; people who assume their country's power, custody, custody or permanent shelter are the ones who will manage it. We're going to provide assistance and advice to orphans and children, victims of gender-based violence, and also to people who take care of them, so that they can be taken care of in the right conditions. We will therefore assist them in all the administrative procedures they require: certificates, acts of last will, insurance contracts and death insurance, wills, heirs' declarations, labor and social security procedures... all that the orphans and orphans miss in a situation that is already very long, and they need this assistance from the Administration. We will also facilitate the support and comprehensive socio-educational care with minors, orphans and orphans, which they need, also supporting those people who take care of them for as long as it takes. For these purposes to be met, of course, the Administration has its own means, but we are also going to establish cooperation agreements with the professionals most involved can be directly involved. I'm talking about schools of administrative managers, social graduates, social education and socio-labour audit associations. The third step we want to put in place immediately is a plan of incentives for companies and municipalities to recruit women victims of gender-based violence. It's measure 175 of the Covenant, we believe it's a very important measure, and we think we're going to dedicate to it in principle, as forecast, up to 3 million euros a year. It's about deploying aid to companies that hire women victims of gender-based violence for a minimum of twelve months. We want to extend it to businesses, as well as municipalities, in order to encourage the inclusion of victims. We've already started a similar measure in 2016 and since then he's been active with non-profit entities, but we believe that now going to companies and going to the municipalities is certainly an important qualitative leap. And the fourth and final immediate measure is the victim's plan of accompaniment and counselling. We want to put it into effect with the judiciary, with the prosecutor's office, with the schools of lawyers and prosecutors, and also with the College of Galician Psychology. It would be a question of implementing a single cooperation protocol between these agents. It's a measure, by the way, 140 of the Covenant, and what we want is to avoid secondary victimization, the second victimization of the woman who denounces. The judicial process is a very hard process and therefore we want to promote coordination between the psychologist, who will already be on that duty and guard to which I refer before, the specialist lawyer, the prosecutor and the professionals of justice. Finally, support the woman and avoid a confusing statement that frustrates the process. To ensure that the necessary evidence is brought near, try to prevent the right not to declare... from giving up the process for reasons that sometimes result from a lack of advice or proper accompaniment. In any case, it's also a development of the victim's care policy, and we think it's very necessary and very urgent. These would be the four measures we want to put in place, we're already in conversation, some have already begun. Yesterday we signed the agreement with the College of Psychology, others will begin soon. These are the four most urgent, but there are others that are logically urgent too and that we want to put in motion as quickly as possible, and, in any case, in the next year. In total, fourteen measures, joining these four, which I would like to summarize in three fundamental blocks. First of all, those who focus on the victims, thinking that the ultimate goal is to get them out of the nightmare and get them back into work and socially. Also policies aimed at preventing male violence: campaigns, awareness-raising initiatives, education activities, schools. And finally, broaden the knowledge of the forms and incidences of male violence in Galicia. To know what happens to avoid, precisely, what happens. Starting with the first block, paying attention to the victims, we must continue to improve, without any doubt, the measures to facilitate an exit, vital expectations and also housing options. Sometimes, that they have a place to stay, a place to live, that's where the end of the nightmare begins. So we're going to strengthen the Galician reception network with the establishment of new resources for women victims of violence and for their children and daughters. These are measures in the Covenant, 168 and 179. So we're going to expand the existing centres and we're also going to devote to this measure, in principle, EUR 500,000. We're going to expand the squares of the centres that already exist where possible and we're also going to launch new resources. For example, in the rural areas of the province of Lugo and the Navy, a resource directed to victims of gender-based violence with associated mental illness. Unfortunately, it's a more common case than one might think, and these women need special attention in a special resource, and so we'll put it on the move. And we're also going to strengthen with €150,000, for another example, the Vigo Emergency Centre, which is a member of the Galego Consortium of Social Services in Galicia. Within this first block of the three, another important measure is to design and put in place an integral plan of access to housing. As you say otherwise, secure a place, when it's not a reception center, a residence, immediately. Instead of the reception center, or when they leave the reception center, for all women victims of macho violence and also for their minor descendants; and when they are orphans too — before I referred to it — and for their caregivers and caregivers. The aid will be of an annual nature. A grant of twelve consecutive monthly bonds may be received, and may be subject, depending on the circumstances, to further extensions. A measure of the local pact — 168 — and we're going to deal with it in principle, we're going to see the evolution, 2.5 million euros a year. And, of course, we will also continue to advance in the therapeutic measures specialized in relation to victims of macho violence; measures 255 and 256 of the Covenant. In principle, we're going to add around 250,000 euros. What do we want to do? For in 2019, to extend coverage to the four provinces, i.e. throughout the territory of Galicia, of therapeutic intervention programs with women who have suffered sexual violence. We have begun this experience this year with the Children's Foundation and now we want to generalize it and address it to all women and minor victims of sexual abuse and violence, to alleviate the ever devastating effects, to accompany the victims in the acquisition of skills to cope with the consequences of the situation they suffered and to work on all those traumas that could have produced to improve their psychological health. I mean, psychological care and specialized and generalized therapeutic care in the four provinces. We're also going to collaborate with rural women's federations, it's very important to perform in this field in rural areas. To develop programmes to support victims of gender-based violence in rural areas, in coordination, of course, with public services — here the social services resources of the municipalities are very important — and the information and support work that information centres can do to women is also important. These are also measures that are in the Covenant, numbers 180 and 181, the axes to which they are collected. And we're also going to promote leisure stays for women who are victims of gender-based violence with family responsibilities that are not shared. It's about these women and their sons and daughters being able to enjoy a vacation stay, accompanied by a specialized team, to work and recover, when necessary, maternal relationships, which are often destroyed by the violence that they have suffered. It's also a measure of the Covenant, 170. In principle we will invest around 60,000 euros. And finally, in this time I remember that the direct economic aid given to the victims of gender-based violence, that right now, on the whole and in the way they are giving themselves alone in Galicia if they are producing in this way, we are going to maintain it, comes from many years ago, and we believe that we have to keep it, and we are going to devote to these direct aid, which are measures 72 and 75 of the Covenant — I insist, in Galicia we have been with them for many years now — 4.5 million euros. In addition, from an amendment to last year's budgets of the BNG, by the way, which was supported by the majority group, women no longer have to wait, when the game runs out, for it to be added to. There is always a game, so those waiting times are no longer played. The second big field of action, of the three I was referring to, has to do with prevention and awareness. Specific actions. As I said, it is essential — we have often said it in this House — to pay particular attention, when it comes to predicting violence against men, in the field of education. There are a lot of measures in the State Covenant that refer to this. Specifically one axis, the one axis. Breaking silence, prevention and awareness, everything that has to do with this, will lead to an investment of EUR 4.5 million. For what? To promote all educational centres equality programmes, prevention programmes and fight against violence. We're also going to work with universities very closely. An order of aid will be called for universities to fund research projects with a gender perspective and on macho violence. We're going to promote the implementation of an interuniversity master in macho violence and new lines of collaboration will be established, which will be added to what we already have, to the equality offices of the three universities. We're also going to make an effort, I think it's very important, to work very closely with the municipalities in the area of prevention, to develop awareness campaigns. We always say that the local administration — and it is true — is the closest to the citizen, so this is where all these measures can have a greater impact. There are many points in the State Pact that affect collaboration with the municipalities, so we are going to follow them, and we have increased collaboration in this area of prevention from the local level, giving the municipalities help, in addition to those already being given, for 800,000 euros. I want to remember that the amount announced, which has not yet entered, from the state to the Greek municipalities to fight against gender-based violence is EUR 1.2 million in all. This would be added to the EUR 800,000, which would go into prevention campaigns, from the allocation to the Galician Union to exercise its powers. I say, there are multiple things that can be done: to address children and young people in particular, to promote co-education; also in the use of social networks, great problems at the moment, and electronic devices; to address women who are most vulnerable, who are often those who are in rural areas, older women, women with disabilities; women who are victims of trafficking; ultimately, to the whole of citizenship from the nearest sphere. We also have to do action protocols against sexual violence, so that all administrations know exactly what to do at every moment in a coordinated manner and we don't waste time. It also provides for possible sexual assaults, possible circumstances of male violence in public spaces, establishing safe spots and information points on sexual violence. We're also going to increase the training and awareness of youth from the German Government. We will expand the presence that already exists of informative points in music festivals, in large concentrations, in major events, in the parties of tourist interest in Galicia. We're going to deploy new features in the AP Agresion Off to establish geolocation support systems, for example. That always the possible victim, or any woman who carries this app, may be geolocalized. This ultimately helps prevent aggression and, in any case, facilitates their complaint and investigation if they have occurred. This is a concrete measure of the State Pact and it will cost €230,000. We'll also work with the media. We know it's a very important aspect. We'll work on a double aspect, on the one hand, boosting the training of journalists and professionals, awareness-raising campaigns in the media. Finally, to seek the commitment of the media to a proper information treatment of male violence when information is produced in this regard. And also to collaborate with them in the dissemination of campaigns that we have made since the Galician Union, of campaigns that are carried out from other administrations with funds from the Galician Union, which are directed both to citizenship in general and to the public and concrete collectives, which will also be, especially vulnerable groups, older than 65, young people, rural women, to whom I refer earlier. They are also measures of the State Covenant, work with the media; in particular, measures 24, 25, 26, 43 and 56 of the Covenant. Five measures relating to working with the media. And also, in addition to the educational field, in addition to the media, we will collaborate, essential in this area, with organised civil society. I'm talking about associations of all kinds, to contribute to their awareness, and to help us raise society's awareness of equality and against masculine violence. We've started doing this these years, but in 2019 we're going to expand the aid for women's associations in Galicia, 300,000 euros. We will open, as I have said, a specific line for women's federations in rural areas, and we will continue to collaborate — we believe it is fundamental — with neighbouring associations in the fight against violence against men. We're also making agreements with the different sports federations. We believe that most of all in youth and basic sport can be done very much in this field. We will carry out specific campaigns to promote equality in sport, and through sport in all aspects of life. We'll also make a better dissemination through team sponsorship as well as certain sporting events. They are also measures of the Covenant, and we are going to devote around 600,000 euros to these activities. The third large group of these three that I refer to, as far as these fourteen measures are concerned, refers to the expansion of the knowledge available on macho violence. We're going to make a new macroeconomic survey of the perception of macho violence in Galicia. One was done in 2006, another was done in 2012, and we believe that it is now six years later to make another macro-enquisition; in addition, it is one of the measures provided for in the pact, measure 169. In parallel, we're going to sink into this whole knowledge issue. We are going to do a study of the incidence of male violence in rural areas. As I've been saying throughout this audience, we believe it's a field in which much remains to be worked and, therefore, we will devote special attention to a study in this area; in addition, there are measures, two specifically, provided for in the State Pact. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, and in summary, this is the list of the measures we are going to take. They are fourteen, which comprise, first, many of those contained in the State Covenant. Not the three hundred, logically, three hundred can't be affected, but many of them are being done and we believe that these are the ones that can have greater effectiveness and greater incidence in Galicia. We have the experience and the advantage that, as I said, many of those who are now expected to be novices for many territories of the state have already been developing in Galicia, so all this work ahead must be taken advantage of, and also the provision of additional funds which now exist and which is added to those which have already been registered since the budgets of the Autonomous Community. We don't want here -- and I've already said it in other audiences -- to have the key to everything that needs to be done, to hit everything. This is an open proposal in which I believe we can all feel included; in which we are willing, from the German Government, to collect all those proposals that are intended to be made from the parliamentary groups. The only thing we are asking for is that there should be a work in consensus; that we should try to separate political differences as far as possible. We have been able to reach agreements unanimously on violence against men and fighting for equality in this Parliament on more than one occasion, and I hope that we will now be able to do so as well. It would be a wonderful new one, and it would be a wonderful new one, too, that we were able to reach these quick consensuss and put them into action immediately. We have a huge problem on the table. We're already working, but we have to keep working and not lose a minute. So if we were able to develop all these measures, some of them already say they're started because they were more urgent, but if we were able to do everything else, and with the greatest consensus possible, I think we'd be doing a great job for the people who put us here to do this kind of thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u4	Thank you, Vice President. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u5	Good morning to all and to all. Mr. Rueda, the first thing I have to say to you, in all sincerity, is that the BNG seems positive to you that a counselor should come to the plenary of the Greek Parliament to talk about the violence of the masquerading. I could come here and tell you that it looks like a gesture policy because it didn't come as usual and because we're at the doors of November 25. Maybe that's the way it is. But, in any case, we understand that whenever we speak in this House of macho violence, it's good news. And second, maybe that helps to compensate a little for the absence of this issue in the two most recent debates that we had in this House, which alarmed us deeply at BNG and that we tried modestly to put them in the lecture, which was the debate about the state of the nation and which was also the beginning of the budgetary debate, in which we still find ourselves. We always insist that what is not named does not exist, and therefore, it is important that this plenary begin today by talking about macho violence. But the truth is that it also leaves us a somewhat sour taste, because it gives us the feeling that this topic of the State Covenant does not give us so much room to get to specific issues immediately as if you had come to make a deeper assessment of your own competences, and, in that sense, we understand that it gives us a little bit of dissatisfaction. And we can't help but wonder if you'd come to see if you'd still be ruling in Madrid. I want to think so. In any case, let's get to the point. I think it's appropriate, first, to make an assessment of how we see this pact against the state's masculine violence since the BNG, now that it's been a while since its approval. Go forward — I want to insist on this — our scrupulous concern for all the people who have participated in it and all the political forces, who are convinced and convinced that they have done so with the best constructive spirit, but the truth is that the assessment of how we are makes us a little dissatisfied and certainly disappointed. Since the BNG we have been somewhat critical of this pact since the beginning, but not on the basis of apriorisms, but on the basis of objective facts. We've been tracking from the very first moment, and I think it's good to remember which context is born and also to make a balance. This is born from a context where the right hand of the state did not have an absolute majority; a context where there was a peak of macho violence manifested in a wave of consecutive feminicides that triggered great social mobilizations; and hence it was a bit the way out to shut down certain debates for the sake of a certain embrace of bear. For us that is the conclusion that we have drawn a long time from your party in the Government by which no single legislative change has been approved and no progress has been made on the budgetary issue either. There was a motion of censure, it is true that there is a change of attitude on the part of the Government, but it is also true that we continue without considering that this is opening too many doors in our country. Why? Because the main problem -- and you were already making it -- is that here we start a much higher framework. Here we start from a situation in which there are debates this country has closed ten years ago, or it has opened ten years ago, better said. So there are issues that are an open, safe, positive door for many women in the rest of the state, and we rejoice. We understand that Galicia has to put all her experience there to add. But what is certain is that, in specific matters for our community, we are somewhat dissatisfied about what expectations will be. The central question, to me, is that. We have also made accounts and have often manifested that more than half of this pact in Galicia is already under development, so we need a plus, we need something more to make this satisfy us. You mentioned — and I would like to stress — that there are issues that are being put on top of the state, which have just been realized in a recent legislative amendment in August, which, in real terms, does not mean anything to us. Victim's accreditation without a prior complaint in Galicia doesn't mean anything new to us. I'm glad for the rest of the state, but it's true. More advanced definition of macho violence. We actually saw it this summer, we saw it when we were talking about cases as dramatic in our country as Diana Quer's, which transcended our borders; or like Manada's, or as when we talked about other issues and was discussed in the state that this was not considered macho violence. We used to say from here that we already considered it. The problem is that for many years, in the end, the policy that has been implemented since the Spanish State has brought about a paroon in the field of equality and masculine violence. At the Istanbul Convention I am sending myself, signed by the Spanish State in 2014, where this whole issue of the enlargement of the definition of violence appears in 2014! And in 2018 the Spanish State continues to fail, it continues to suspend, under the Istanbul Convention. So we try not to look too much at the Meseta in question of macho violence and look a little further at other latitudes and our own experience. And with this, I do not want to lose any importance to the fact that there are many issues, especially in the statistical field, in the plan of state-dependent bodies, which can open doors, but I don't think we have to overvalue the framework that opens this pact. Then I also have to tell him that many of the issues he said are moving forward in the line of recovering issues that were already there and that you have left behind, or in which he was already working on the board. But before I wanted to mention something that seems relevant to us in this pact and that we think it's a little bit the point that can get us closer and that can suppose to our country a step forward, which is the question of funding. As far as the community is concerned, of course, we drag an unfair funding system with the Spanish State, which we have already discussed; and, of course, the State has more capacity to spend than the community. So we understand, and we make the proposal to you later, in the coming months, that we must demand greater funding for the community. We understand that yes, there is a part of the community's own funding that is based on dispersion and on some sort of issue, but there are more issues that we should consider, as a greater weight for the larger population, also taking into account the average wages and pensions of this country and claim that, if we are far ahead of other points of the State, we need more resources to assume those functions. Then there's something that seems to us to be important and what I want to mention, even if it's short, the local authorities. You made some reference and we wanted to insist too, taking advantage of this forum. It seems to us that as a country — and also the Greek councils must do so, and so we are pushing it through motions — we must demand another allocation for the question of the municipalities, starting with a greater amount. It didn't seem enough for us to expand from 20 million to 40 million. There are more than 8,000 municipalities throughout the state. Galicia has most of the concentration of population points and therefore we understand that we have to go to other criteria. Also taking into account the structural lack of funding from the Greek municipalities. In this sense, it has just been nominally restored to the competence of the municipalities in this area. In the end, it's a matter of awareness. Who wanted to raise awareness from the municipalities, was already doing it, but if we want this to happen, we have to improve funding, and we understand that you, like Galician Union, should also insist on this line. I wanted to mention, before I focus on one aspect that seems more important to us, because it's competition shared with the Galician Union, but it greatly conditions the aspect of the state, which is justice. But before that, there was a question you were discussing, mainly prevention. I was talking about campaigning to all the educational centers. We hope that this is the case, because there are issues you have referred to, campaigns in all educational centres, research programmes — which were already there, by the way, and you have removed them — they have also recently voted against a law of the BNG that promoted them and voted against a law of co-education, when they now talk to us about education. Well, in all these matters we understand that it is important that they correct and incorporate them. You were talking about it, too. I invite you, in the face of the delay in the framework of the state, to push from our own country a specific law of trafficking. It's a demand from the sector, and we understand that it's something we should think about. A doubt you didn't mention, because you were talking about the subject of teaching and so on. One of the measures that contemplates the pact is to include in the Master of Teaching a specific module of macho violence. We approved in this Greek Parliament a year ago, or more than a year ago — I think I remember — a proposal by BNG to incorporate into our country's teaching mastership a specific subject, the last time we asked this was in the process of dialogue with universities, but we understand that they have a more active role in this, and to go a little further; a module no, we need a specific matter. It must be borne in mind that in this type of master, there are subjects that last a week, I mean, we're not talking crazy either. And finally, I would like to focus — I will do more in reply — on justice. In the realm of justice, you, Mr. Rueda, have a very important part. Part of the competition is Galician and you also have a mandate prior to the State Pact, which is a pact that we arrived in January 2017 in this House and where there were specific issues, and I will reiterate them here, as a provision of the resources necessary to improve judicial means, guarantee the existence of mechanisms for separation between victims and aggressors, guarantee of specialized training, and implement a forensic protocol for risk-level assessment for cases of gender violence in forensic units. There were proposals for improvement in this area that are still undeveloped, so we want to ask you to make a greater effort in this. And we insisted, a few days ago I was listening in a talk to Judge Paz Filgueira saying that the errors in justice were systemic and systematic. We understand that, if there is anything that can open the State Covenant, and if there is something in which you also have the ability to direct action like Galician Union, it is to intervene in the matter of justice. In 2018 it was the key area that focused all social debates. We've seen it in a number of cases that jumped into the public lecture. In that field we have a lot to do and it's absolutely central. So we reiterate here once again that it seems to us that the Board should promote a unit of specific masculine violence, in its council, where possible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u7	...to assess the actual compliance with the laws and this state pact and if you can make a specific follow-up, that in other areas, such as the interinstitutional cooperation protocol, its assessment is not possible. We therefore believe that less to look at the issue of the Covenant. We are grateful that you come to explain the concrete measures that you will apply with that budget of eight million, but we understand that we have to go much further. More budgeting and more capacity of incidence in areas than they can respond to our needs, such as justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u9	I'll follow after. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u10	Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u11	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. I miss, however, in this debate the presence of all the advisers. Even more so when we know that equality is a cross-cutting issue and so much is said. Too bad they're not here. Let me, however, begin with a sentence by Minerva Mirabal, a phrase that he uttered when he was aware that his life could be in danger. And he said, "If they kill me, I'll take my arms out of the grave and be stronger." His fear and his promise have been fulfilled. She was murdered on November 25, and today her arms are all of us who believe in equality, as well as those we see in violence the worst of the faces of inequality, and those and those who want to change history and do it by women like her, by their sisters, also murdered, and like the 57 women, children and children murdered in Galicia, since 2010, by the male violence. And because it's been so many years, too many years in history, those that are of plausible demonstration that, if women are where we are, it's only by the willful and interested decision of men. Because, in a patriarchal world, women occupy the place they are given. That's why today we ask your government, Mr. Rueda, to work for and to conquer the equality of all Greeks and Greeks. And since it can't be otherwise, it does indeed see for the safety of women who today feel threatened. That here in Galicia, as Mrs. Presas said, you have to suppose a plus. Because of the year 2017 in Galicia we have the following balance: 3,473 women who made use of 016; three fatal victims, two women and one smaller, the same number as in 2016. Nearly 800 women who suffered assaults or injuries. 1,284 protection orders were adopted; 150 more than in 2016. And 6,436 was the number of complaints about violence. According to statistics, one in every 215 women in Greece suffers from violence, and one in every 1,000 lives with the conviction that their lives are at risk. And if we look at the data over the last ten years, something more than 60,000 were the allegations of gender violence, which affects one in twenty-five Greek women; an amount that is alarming and that, translated into the reality of our villages, makes us aware that in every community, in every neighborhood, it may be that at the door or at the door of the house next door, if you are exercising violence against a woman. That is why it is so important to work on all the programmes and to be effective in all the programmes, and this cannot be achieved if they do not feel well, giving priority mainly to sufficient economic support to enable the implementation of the measures and actions envisaged in the strategic plans. The contribution of the Galician Union to the fight against violence is even below the generalized increase in budgets this year. Just €144,000 over the total of €5.57 million to the Galician Union, because the total 14.11 million of the violence budget can only be explained by the 8,540,000 of the State Pact allocation fund. This is 60,5 % of the contribution comes from the State, compared to 39.5 % from the contribution from Galician Union. [[Applause]] That's why today we ask this Government, Mr. Rueda, not to live in the shadow of the state, to bring that plus. If last March 8 Mr. Feijóo made statements as you promote equality with proposals and not with protests, or that they took note of the event and encouraged all parties to do the same, because, if you notice, they do not expect others to do so for you. They show by the numbers, and not just by the words, that the Greek women are a priority of this Government. Because the Socialist Party not only took note of that day and since that day, but has taken note from a long time before, being, among other things, an architect of laws such as the law against gender violence in 2004, that of homosexual marriage in 2005, that of the dependency of 2006, that of equality in 2007, or that of the right to abortion in 2010. All driven by the Socialist Party and by a government, Mr. Zapatero. And since then we haven't stopped taking note and facilitating the necessary legislative changes to bring about the great social changes towards the equality of women in this country. [[Applause]] By following, of course, the feminist movement, the one that so blew up the notebook, also the notes, the sleeves, the blurs, and which took us all last March 8 to the streets. Well, sorry, not all of them, the women and men of the People's Party were working hard on the proposals and taking notes. [[Applause]] And that, that's the difference between a People's Government, who takes note only when he sees that he can lose his title in the playing field, and the Socialist Party, who proves to be ready at all times to enter the field, because it's many minutes that he has on top of this party, and enough experience, to know how to execute the changes in a short time and effectively, as he's already shown. And as he has also shown from the beginning leadership of the need for a state pact against gender-based violence. It's probably not what you want, but if you need it. The Covenant which has won to unite all political and institutional forces in this country to improve the situation of women victims and to combat an unworthy situation for any society. That's why the Socialist Party entered the State Government on June 2, and in less than two months it unlocked the State Covenant, after a year of paralysis since its adoption. And why would this happen? Because we do like to play this theme. We're not afraid, but real interest in things changing. We thus succeeded in activating the 200 million of the State Pact for 2018 and introducing measures such as improving the participation of the victim in the criminal process, expanding the mechanisms for accreditation of situations of gender violence, the return of local government competences, allocating 20 million euros for programmes aimed at eradicating gender violence and also compromising that figure in 2019 with 40 million. The amendment to Article 156 of the Civil Code, so that psychological care and assistance are outside the catalogue of acts requiring a common decision in the exercise of the country's power. All actions that show that they want and power if they can go hand in hand. And we don't say that this is enough, of course not, much remains to be done, but it must be made clear that in order to continue to promote legislative changes and reforms it is necessary to support all the groups that allow the speed up of the action to be put in place and not their trap, as has already happened. [[Applause]] In any case, the Government of Galicia can follow the example of the Socialist Party and go beyond, much beyond, and start by making good use of state funds. That's a first step. It seems to us very good that thanks to this state funding, we can put in place initiatives like the ones you announced today, which are good for us. It is also true that a good way of following the example would be to begin by disauthorizing the macho dequalifications of his mayors, as happened with Mr Durán in his comments on the President of the Pontevedra Parliamentary, qualifying him as chacha for everything. We are still waiting, Mr. Rueda, for your explicit rejection in this House, because these statements not only offend a woman, but offend all the women and men of Galicia that we believe in equality. [[Applause]] And we only heard a timid comment from Mr. Feijóo, on the questions of the media, considering the words disillusioned, but, as it turns out, they consider that Mr. Durán is a person fit to continue ruling a council. So, look, to watch for the use of non-sexist language in institutions is among the legal obligations of this administration and the rest of the Greek institutions, and I think that their "let things pass" greatly disrupts their real involvement with equality. To anticipate a mayor who at no time apologized, but who has yet more forcefully shot, speaks very well of where you have your real interests: in defending your own over anything. The silence, his silence in the shadow, makes him an accomplice, Mr. Rueda. [[Applause]] And shadows are the ones that this Government has been sowing in time, because it was you who suppressed the Galician Service of Equality; it was you who removed the Offices of Equality and Welfare; and it was you who repealed Law 2/2007, from the equal work of women in Galicia. You've been sketching the path of equality that you were tracing, so today it's more intransitable. [[Applause]] Take advantage of this opportunity now that the State Covenant funds provide you with to clear the way and to put in place measures that respond to the end for what has been dealt with. In addition, remember that 40% of the funds are justified by the rural nature of Galicia; more than three million euros should be earmarked for rural prevention and awareness-raising policies. You have just pointed at some measure, but you have not properly quantified it in this case, and so you see, moreover, the budgets presented nothing reassure us because, really, nothing compromises. Even so, the contribution to the municipalities means, therefore, that you have now announced, some 8,000 euros between the contributions of the Union and the State. The state has already committed 20 million more for the year, probably also insufficient, it should be much more, but we expect the same gesture from this Government so that these contributions actually serve something. For the moment, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u13	Thank you, President. We welcome this appearance. The truth is that we have said many times that equality is too absent from many debates — two very recent important issues have been mentioned here, but it is a general question — and we really would like them to come on more occasions to discuss this issue. If we say that the feminist perspective has to go through all the debates, then we apply it every day. We agreed on a few questions he said. We believe that this is a problem for all of us, that all administrations must act co-ordinately in this. As I said, we agree because the situation does not take any longer, but often the pacts must be supported in reality and in concrete matters, and if there are political differences, they must also be spoken. For us there is no point in a pact that then does not take place in the day-to-day budget. Then I'll come in and talk about the issues that we see are not negative to you, but they're inconcrete about the State Covenant. Three women killed this year in Galicia, the most cruel part, the most visible part. We will have to come to see why these issues happen; why inequalities cross women's lives in all areas in which we participate, and we believe that, of course, much greater involvement is needed, much more resources and much more coordination is needed. Then, as a first point of reference to one of the issues you have pointed out, on the subject of complaints, we believe that we need an assessment of why there are some women who do not report. We believe that many women should not feel identified with many of the explanations. It's true that if you've made a lot of progress in gender training for the agents who are in this direction, but we believe that there are still women who have difficulties when they're going to report and we believe that visibility is not a catastrophic message, we believe that visibility is necessary for many women to feel recognized. There are women who, unfortunately, make a complaint and find themselves with macho comments. There are many women who are going to file a complaint and find themselves that they do not have the necessary resources: housing resources, economic resources, and we believe we have to say it. Of course, measures must be put in place so that this does not happen, but we believe that the subject of accompaniment also at the time of the complaint is fundamental. It can't be that no woman feels alone at such an important moment as this one — you mentioned it —. But we also believe that the subject of training is still a pending matter. We must insist, it can't be that a single woman tells an example of macho comments of: Well, woman, it won't be so much. Well, woman, that's still happening, it's real testimony that some women are going to report, and this can't even happen in a single court of the country, no police can have a certain one... it's true that we have to say that there are many others who have incorporated the feminist perspective, who are trained and who have sensitivity, but we believe that there is also a need to make that assessment for many women — or not many, but some of the women who live in this situation — when they're going to report, feel recognized and say, the administration is aware that it's still going to be improved. Then, as mentioned earlier, it is true that, when we talk about macho violence, we have to keep in mind that Galicia has a much more advanced law. There are a lot of issues that are raised in the pact for the first time and in which we already had, as the BNG spokesperson said, the debates that have been given and advanced for a long time. The subject of sentimental relationships was evidence. You don't have to have a romantic relationship with a man so that this is macho violence. This is progress. Maybe that's why we also need to open up jobs in Galicia to make much more progress. The State Covenant is lagging behind on some issues. And above all, we, who have some already debated and advanced issues, also have to move forward on this specific issue. As a general framework, we welcome the measures that are presented today in this audience: psychological accompaniment, the network of escorts, but we must continue to insist that it is not enough. We must also continue to insist, a year after the pact, that when this pact was approved it announced that the measures would take place immediately, that all the measures would take forward, but a year later we have most of the measures undeployed and today most of the measures will be announced without a legislative development and without a specific budget. So we have to say that they are still insufficient and that they come quite late, and that many of the measures are not at the root of the problem. For example, they talk about moving forward in the reintegration of women who are victims of male violence. We agree that we must act there, but perhaps also where we must act, where we often refuse to act and refuse initiatives from this group and from many other parliamentary groups, in this House and also in other chambers, is to put an end to the wage gap and the working precariousness that women live in, to really go to the root of the problem, which is women's economic dependence, because women depend economically on men. We will have to act at all stages of the process and not only in women who have just reported male violence, because economic independence must be a reality for all women in our country. On the subject of direct care resources, he spoke of the CIS. The truth is, when we talk about the CIM, when it's to speak well, it's partly close to the work of the CIM, when it's to speak negatively, it's the municipalities that make the CIM. I think there's a very important self-criticism on the subject of the CIM relationship. You know that many CIMs in the country don't have enough resources, they don't have enough staff, they lack coordination. Coordination is very important, and the Galician Union must coordinate this fundamental resource. And we don't say that, say it to the professionals who work in these resources. And then, with the topic of the media, it's one of the most bloody issues, and we've been discussing this issue in this plenary. They've rejected initiatives that talk about these issues, there are agreements that are already under way that are not met, that are done repeatedly, and in fact the Greek journalists are justly organizing because the Administration has been running out of functions on this subject for many years, and we've been insisting on this for a long time. It's urgent to act in the media, they're one of the key agents and they're still reproducing gender stereotypes that need to be completed, not to mention that a lot of the news of masculine violence is explained as events, and we believe the Administration has a suspension there. The Administration, for many years, has left absolute functions with this issue in the media. Now, as I say, the Greek journalists are organizing, and the truth is, we have to thank them for all this effort. As I say, this appearance comes to us a little late, not only because there is little talk about feminist issues in this House, but because it was perhaps positive that this appearance took place before deciding which measures will be taken forward in the Greek Pact as priorities, because rather than announcing, this should serve as a debate area. If they really want to reach an agreement, if they want to give a debate, it was perhaps positive that this issue had been debated much earlier and not when it was already decided. Often the speech — as I say — does not go out of the hands of the facts, because as much as they now say that the State Covenant will do its best with the measures, we have memories and we have also the news, and it wasn't so long ago, for months the People's Party has blocked this State Pact. The State Pact has been approved, the EUR 1 billion we were going to have for this State Pact has been disseminated through all the media, and what happened? Months later there was no action in place, there was not a single euro budgeted, only in memory. They didn't have any kind of repair to put on something, breach a deal and a pact that you yourself signed. And, in fact, our reasons for abstinuing our group at Congress were confirmed months later: there was a lack of budget allocation, lack of concreteness and lack of real application. So what we think we have to do is that, one by one, all measures have to have a real budget allocation, a real date to move forward and a legislative development, a calendar, if not, will do nothing. The State Covenant was only used to provide holders. A year later, to this day, what measures have been taken before this covenant. We believe that it was a lack of political will, because it was insulting for us that they did not have any repairs — as I said — to include the promise of 200 million euros for that year. That is why we always talk about feminist issues, about equality issues, so much insist on the issue of budgeting. It's no good that we have speeches in favour of equality if there's no real budget allocation after that. And also one of the fundamental problems is that, when we talk about the pact, we want this pact not to be a pact that is restricted to parliamentary groups, we think it has to be a pact of society as a whole. And it has to be a pact also of the whole feminist movement, which were really the women who mobilized those who gave us the way and those who marked the way to institutions. That's why we believe that, if we open a German pact, we hope that this pact will really be opened up and that the pact follow-up commission, for example, is made up of women who are mobilized by the feminist movement, because we don't listen to them too often. I'm going to finish. I would say that the fundamental thing, when we talk about these issues, is that there is a lack of self-criticism. We can't make a blur and a new account, as if now this appearance wasn't based on all the cutting policies of recent years. We can't talk about equality and reconciliation when, repeatedly, they cut into dependence, they cut into health, and when this affects women's life directly. We cannot talk either of ending the economic dependency, when we know that the approved labour reforms are the only thing that they do is precarious work, increasing the wage gap, etc. So, we believe that it can't be done like Machism was born... Machism is going through all society, it's going through all administrations. But it's also true that many public budgets and policies taken forward for many years haven't fought Machism, it wasn't a priority. I hope that thanks to the efforts of many women who have gone out on the street and have seen that it is urgent to act against the violence of machos, really all parliamentary groups and the whole of society is moving forward on this issue to put all measures in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u14	Thank you. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u15	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Vice President, thank you. Thank you for coming in and giving the data, the good and the bad. The data you just brought us to the Chamber shows that there's still a lot of work to be done. Three women killed in Galicia, more than 4,000 consultations at women's information centres, nearly 600 psychological assistance, 164 people who made use of the reception network, of which 74 were minors, and nearly 300 women were beneficiaries of direct aid that allowed them to start a new life away from their batter. And what we don't know. Unfortunately, what we don't know and why we have to keep working. But it's also good news to know that there is an integral network of care for victims scattered throughout the autonomous community; that there are resources to care for victims; that they are not alone, that they are and will always be accompanied. And besides, that more resources are being put in place, more specialized and spread throughout the territory, also in rural areas, Mr. Vice-President. You made here a very important demonstration that we all are concerned about, and is that all resources reach the territory and, above all, — as it has been said here — in Galicia, which we have the scattered and aging population, and especially our rural population. What a better campaign than those resources that you are making available to all women in Galicia! Others fill the squares of the cities, posters in the windows, mandes, shirts, sheets... T-shirts, lots of t-shirts. Above all, the most important thing is to hire a friendly company. That's the way to make politics... Uqui Permui, Lucía Canoura — because someone wanted the data. Well, sensitization campaigns are important, but that's not all. Because the question we have to ask ourselves is if that helps victims in something, if it wouldn't be better to get some money out of these campaigns and to get them more personal at the women's information center, to have more resources for attention, information, education. They are different ways of understanding how to address this problem, some fan with propaganda and others with resources. Congratulations, Mr Vice-President, on being in the second group, on putting resources and means to care for the victims. Mr Vice-President, you know that you have an ally, you have the People's Parliamentary Group to eradicate gender-based violence. And as President of the Non-Permanent Equality Commission, I would like to say that he has the support of all the House's groups, because we are doing an important job of bringing up proposals to end the work of the committee. As you know, attendances have ended and we're working on the dictates, and I hope that that dictation, with its recommendations and conclusions, ends with what we all have in mind, which is a Greek pact against gender violence. [[Applause]] I hope that the groups will park our differences and we will be able to reach agreements. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry some don't like it. I think it's important to get to those agreements, we shouldn't have any problems. I think it's best to focus on what unites us, not on what separates us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Murmurs.]] From these background, Mr. Vice-President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u18	Quiet, please. Listen to who's using the word. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, everybody. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. I actually heard things here that I didn't like either. I don't know if you've heard of Mrs. Pierres' intervention, which is less constructive and bringing up postures, was at all. And it seems business-proof that you won't let a spokesman speak when he speaks. They always think they're bothering the others. I was very quiet in my seat, I didn't interrupt anyone. [[Murmurs.]] And it seems to bother them to talk. [[Murmurs.]] That's your sense of democracy... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u20	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u21	...to interrupt what he talks constantly because they don't like what I say. But it's true! [[Murmurs.]] Truth is what they are and they have to listen to them, just like we listen to them when you tell them, even if we don't like them. And because of this background, Mr Vice-President, that I told you that we are trying to reach agreements in the committee, I deeply regretted that on 6 November the Central Government delegate in Galicia, the Socialist Government delegate, had held a coordination meeting to eradicate gender violence in our community and had excluded the only and only Vice-President of Galicia from this coordination meeting, something that we deeply regret. And we're not only sorry about the People's Parliamentary Group, because I also read to some member — Madam President, you in particular — who put it on the social networks that it didn't seem right to him to exclude. That can't seem good to anyone. I did not hear you, Mrs. Quinteiro, or you, Mrs. Pierres, regret that the Galician Council was not present at that coordination meeting. You, who asks here for explicit rejections in this House. I hope you explicitly reject this sectarian attitude of the Government of Spain. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Because look, Mrs. Pierres, sectarianism has to stay out of the fight against gender-based violence. And so I hope the Socialist Members will transfer it to their colleagues in Madrid. I hope they move it and tell them that here in Galicia we are trying to have consensus and agreement on equality and gender-based violence. And with the lack of institutional respect for the Government of Galicia, which is what is working most in Galicia for the fight against gender-based violence, so we're going wrong. Enough of the desire to use equality as a political daring weapon! All political forces have promoted laws in favour of equality, Mrs. Pierres, all of them! And if we don't push them, we vote for them, even if they were driven by the Socialist Party or another party, because I think it's an obligation for all political leaders. Stop getting medals for getting a law or something ahead of you. Indeed, when ruling a party, it has an obligation to bring those laws forward. You have ruled for many more years in Spain than the People's Party, and logically they have to have a lot more laws in their favor than the People's Party! But the People's Party, when it ruled, also brought forth laws: that of conciliation, the order of protection — with Mr. Aznar, Mrs. Pierres, who you know was the great advance in the fight against gender violence — to get the batterer out of the house — which was once the victim he was leaving for a foster home. That was the People's Party. But we are not here to boast of progress, Mrs. Pierres, because we have all had in our government progress on equality. Stop bragging about it because that's not right, Mrs. Pierres, it's not right. Look, you gave a press round the other day saying Galicia wouldn't be able to spend the final funds. Of course, because the Government of Spain, of socialist Pedro Sánchez — and so feminist government — was to give the finalist funds at the last moment, Mrs Pierres. It was the Government that later transferred the finalist funds to the autonomous communities. And you, with that loyalty that characterizes it, go out and say, "The Government of Galicia won't be able to execute the finalist funds." Sadly, Mrs. Pierres! Absolutely regrettable! Look, Mrs. Quinteiro, the State Covenant has been signed in spite of We can. You came here to justify your abstention. But how can a group not vote in favour of 300 measures to implement in different administrations? It may seem a little, it may seem to you that they have little budget, but don't you think it's a breakthrough? It's just that if there's no progress, even if it's slow, we'll never achieve total equality. You regret dealing with women's information centres. Look, I want to inform you that the information centres for women were set up under a Government of the People's Party, Mr. Fraga Iribarne. And the information centers to the woman were only in danger on one occasion, when the two-party government ruled that it was what he wanted to shut them down. There are governments today, like the Socialist Government of Ponte Caldelas, who shut down the Information Center to the woman, and I haven't heard a single criticism here. [[Applause]] Madam Presas, you say you regret that we will not reach agreements in the debate on the state of autonomy. Look, there were groups that did come to great agreements in the Autonomy State Debate, and it wasn't the BNG. I deeply regret that you didn't have that generosity so you could reach a great deal of country agreement in the debate on the state of autonomy, I regret it. Just like the Tide Group, which didn't have that generosity either. And, of course, you come to say here that more than half of this pact in Galicia is developed and is not able to feel the pride of belonging to an autonomous community, which is Spain's most advanced in terms of gender violence. Of course we've made a lot of progress, of course! But what we have is to be proud and not make criticism. What do we have to keep moving? Of course, Mrs. Presas. But you're proud to belong to an autonomous community that we are the state's most advanced. [[Applause]] I regret the speech so constructive that Mrs. Pierres had. It must have been wrong to debate, because it says that the Government of the State funds 60 per cent of the State Covenant. But what I had to fund, Mrs. Pierres, was 100 percent of the State Pact, which for that is a state pact. And the Galician Union puts the means and resources it has to carry it forward. And speaking of Zapatero, just today, Mrs. Pierres, seven years ago that Mr. Zapatero had the opinion of the Spaniards in the polls, and you know what it was, an absolute majority of the People's Party. That was the opinion of the Spaniards... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u23	...on the management of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero. [[Applause]] And on explicit issues, Mrs. Pierres, I ask you to put aside selective feminism. Stop criticizing there's a mayor of the PP who has a masculine manifestation. I also criticise Mr. García-Page, of his party, who also made Machist statements regarding chachas and others. I criticized Mrs. Carmela Silva, who yesterday criticized that two women from the People's Party could not be in campaigns of gender violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u25	Is that your way into the field, Mrs. Pierres? No, we think that's not the way. Feminism has to be total and non-selective to criticize each other and not others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u26	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u27	Critician from the Minister of Justice, who is not the most feminist in the state, to Mr. García Page or any member of the People's Party who makes macho demonstrations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u29	But they don't and they don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u30	Mr. Rueda Valenzuela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to sincerely thank the constructive tone of Mrs. Presas and Mrs. Quinteiro on a subject in which, as I said at the outset, we understand that, within the political debate that she has to give herself in a parliament, if she hears what the Government is proposing and makes criticisms, it may seem good or bad, but if she talks about what was proposed here, perhaps I can come to an agreement; not that of Mrs. Pierres, who brought a written speech and so out, frankly. I can't understand the pronouncements, and now we'll talk about it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Madam Presas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u32	Quiet, quiet. If you want to be spokesmen for your party, you can change it and you can intervene on the matter you have. Please keep quiet who's in the use of the word. Listen to who's using the word. Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u33	Now I'll explain why I have that impression. Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Presas, tell you that you expect this audience not to be a gesture policy; I can tell you no. The reason for this appearance is that if it is true that they have just entered the State Covenant money and, therefore, to make a presentation of all these measures, we have been working so far. I think it's the moment now, when they can be executed, when they have to make this appearance, regardless of whether it has to be done for the rest of the parliamentary period. I think it was the moment right now, once the money is entered. He says the State Pact came up because the Government of the People's Party in the State, in the Government of Spain, when he was doing nothing in this matter. I don't agree, but, at any rate, I'm welcome if you suddenly make such an important effort as the State Covenant was with your budgetary appropriations. I mean, if it's to justify that there's nothing being done, I think a lot of things have been done by shock, and now what we need is to develop them. It recognises — I think they acknowledged — that we all recognize here that we are starting from a more advanced situation — that this is good — of a law of 2007, of the Bipartisan Government of the Union, that the People's Party has supported, that we have developed for years and that puts us in a better situation. I think that's to congratulate all of us and not lose that frontal situation. And that you know little by little that now, if we have all that advanced path, which is the State Pact, we all leave the same situation. I disagree, I think that by having many advanced things we can go much faster, and I think it's good that you say it and that we all recognize that here we're going better. He says I announced in the appearance, in the first intervention, things that actually existed and were suppressed. Some do, but most honestly, I don't think, what we're going to do now is supplement them; now there's more budget allocation and we're going to intensify them a lot more. He says one thing I agree with: that maybe we deserved more funding. So this is a good proposal, and I hope those working groups that haven't started yet -- I also said in the first appearance -- address an assessment of the results of what you're doing each one of them. And if money -- which looks like a lot of it, but for how much it takes, aren't so many -- is not being used properly by an autonomous community, which increases those that are or are doing things right. So I think that's a good proposal, and of course we'll transmit it wherever it goes. He said that little money for the municipalities; I agree, too, that's why we supplement them with forty percent: it's only about the money that corresponds to the Union — that's not going to be done by all the autonomous communities — that's why we're giving 40 percent of what the state brings to all of them. They announced more for next year, but the truth is, with data last week -- I don't know this week -- the little that corresponded to the councils for this year isn't even transferred. And I suppose they'll also make them incorporable, but it doesn't seem normal for the municipalities today to have any of those 1.2 million that were promised to them. Another contribution that seems positive to me and that, of course, we will take into account, does not depend solely on us, but we can do it, because we are going to do a lot of things with universities: that there is a specific subject in the master's teaching about equality and the fight against macho violence. He was also speaking, indeed — and I, from my direct responsibilities, have a more direct responsibility in the judicial field — to the things that can be done. We're doing important things in training, we're doing important things. By the way, we cannot allocate the money of the State Covenant — or, at least, in its original conception, they tell us that we would not; we would, we would like to insist that it is — to do certain physical works that are also necessary to ensure that competences are properly distributed. I'm referring to, wherever possible, the judges, making separate rooms. There are these already in the new judicial buildings and, of course, in which we are going to build them; there are these in many villages, there are already in the cities, but we believe that — where possible — if we should be able to do it in many places. It doesn't make much sense that the State Covenant doesn't allow this kind of work, and we will insist on that. You know that we have, in the trials of gender-based violence, both the exclusive and the mixed, to strengthen your staff, both on a daily basis and an economic supplement for the special work they do. I don't think we're talking much, maybe because of the rush of time in appearance, but I think the effort we're going to make in the psychological shift is one before and one after; you have to suppose for women victims of macho violence to be treated from the beginning, from the denunciation. And I agree that much more police training is needed; I agree, and you recognized it — I don't know whether you or Mrs Quinteiro — that it has improved in the attention of state forces and security bodies, who first care for the woman, but there is much to improve. We have at the Galician Public Security Academy scheduled more than a hundred training actions that will reach more than 2,000 people. We don't want them to be too broad either, because we think they require more person-to-person work. Also these victim care offices that we want to strengthen with professionals of all kinds I think they're important, I think that's acting in the court hearing and, as I said before, that's the fundamental objective that there is no refusal of complaints, that there are no renunciation of the process, that there are no bad statements that can damage a conviction when this is going on... I think that this is important for making an important economic effort in this, and that is also acting in the judicial field. As far as Mrs Quinteiro was concerned, she said that there must be an assessment of why women do not report. I fully agree, that evaluation has to be done and the truth and truth is, even if the number of complaints has risen, that doesn't mean that all situations of male violence are being denounced. Therefore, we must continue to insist that all those women who are thinking about reporting should not be afraid to do so, and that is why we will have to make this effort to know that, from the outset, they will be treated, from the time they come to make complaints at police headquarters or in court until later; that they know that they have that economic aid that only exists in Galicia today; that they will know that they will have solutions to live in a house of refuge as a most urgent resource, that they will then have those measures that I announced of a bonus so they can have a rental for twelve extendable months, that they will have possibilities for work insertion... all that encourages them to report and not to be afraid of what may happen from the next day. I also agree... you said that we have to make an effort with psychologists, victim offices, what I told Mrs. Presas in police training... I think all this is going to be done. And you also said that the State Pact is behind us; I also agree, but I think it's three hundred measures. To think that all this is done here in Galicia... That's not it; there are many that are developed that are not even considered in other autonomous communities, but there are many others as well. The State Covenant is a fruit of the work of many experts, both in Congress and the Senate, and I think there are many things we can still do. There are good ideas and I believe that within these 300 things there are many things that can be developed without the need to say that we must act out of those measures of the State Covenant. He also said we've been very late in his development. The same thing I was saying to Mrs. Presas: 16 days ago, the money came. We worked to be able to make these presentations; we could also wait until they arrived to start seeing. Some autonomous community, because we talked to them, said that until the appropriations really arrived, they wouldn't get to work on this issue. We, among the work that we've been ahead of the law of the year 2007 and we knew it would end up coming, I think we didn't take the wrong time. There are a lot of doubts, by the way, about their use, and we're doing constant consultations with the ministry -- that claim that they can be invested in construction expenses from some very specific and very justified sites. That's all we don't know yet, and it's things we'd like to have clarified as soon as possible. I already recognized here, indeed, that money had to arrive long before, and I recognized here that it was in July, already with the motion of censure and with the new government, when it is called autonomous communities and if it tells them -- it's true that it takes more than three months, but it tells them -- that money will be released and therefore we can start working. And of course they had to arrive a long time earlier. Just as it was a Government of the People's Party that promoted the State Pact, it was a Government already of the Socialist Party that makes the appropriations already planned and reaches the autonomous communities, and each one must be recognized the merit he has. There's one thing I didn't understand very well: it says that when we have to speak ill of the CIS we talk about without any problem and then... I never speak ill of the CIS; I have visited many of them over these years, and there's no way to visit them to realize the work, often under no easy circumstances, that the professionals do, because they're almost always women who are working there. A vocational work, no doubt, and there has to be an important part of vocation and to believe what they do to do this work; it's essential work. You will never hear me speak ill, quite the opposite: we say that we must enlarge them, that they have to be associated with municipalities, which is the first resort many times, especially in rural areas, to which women can go. If it is necessary not that of their own council, but that of the council on the side if it is considered appropriate, but that they come, that they have it there and that they will be sheltered by magnificent professionals who will meet them and begin to present a path that will not be anything simple, but that at least allows them to get out of the masculine violence. That is why we insist on coordination, and that is why we insist that the councils — ultimately, it is a municipal resource that is economically supported by the Union — should be even more involved in the resources they have from the CIS. He told me it was urgent to act in the media. I told you, we're going to spend a lot of money, it's in the state pact's measures. And the picture is not good, and of course there is a great deal to be improved in the treatment of news related to violence, but you can't tell me -- I understand it like that; if you haven't, I apologize to you -- that the bad panorama in general we have right now is the sole fault of the Council of Galicia and no one else. I think we'll have our share of responsibility, but we'll all have to improve there, also the media professionals, and that's why we're going to do these training and joint actions. He was telling me, finally, that the appearance had to be before and not now. I've already explained the reason for your appearance right now. And he said we already have the measures closed; no, quite the contrary. Logically, I have to come here as a government representative with a proposal. Now, an open proposal for improvements, proposals for some measures necessary to start implementing already, urgent measures — I said, those four. But everything that can be provided can be done in a positive way; of course we will take it into account. It's a lot of money, it's public resources, it's everybody's money, and therefore we're not here, in any case, in possession of solutions or absolute truth; neither in this or any, but in this particular. And he says that it cannot be restricted to parliamentary groups. Well, I just answered: indeed, open to the whole society. There are a number of measures in which we call for the essential involvement of organised civil society in the first intervention to reach so many people who, if not, would not know this pact and could not benefit from it: many women who are now still afraid to report and who need civil society so that we can reach them. So, I say, I appreciate the comments, in some things we can agree on or not, but I think you understood the message here that it's about getting it started as soon as possible, because it's about picking up all the suggestions. And, Mrs. Pierres, I'm going — if you're sorry, I'm sorry — to explain why I don't understand an appearance in which you... now I understand a little what Mrs. Prado was saying. Why don't you call us at the Government Delegation? Why is it said that we are going to talk about coordinating gender-based violence and it turns out that Junta doesn't have to be called because it seems that we have no skills in gender-based violence and it's not worth calling? Then they tell us no, they called people with powers in the state. Imagine I've said from now on that I'm never going to speak to the Government's delegation anymore because they have competences that are not autonomic, they're broader. It's as absurd as to explain... I hope it won't; it's so, but I hope it's rectified to think that some are champions of equality and struggle against violence to the machist and the others there's no need to give them any letter, no participation or anything. Because, if we're thinking about the political grid, we won't be found here, Mrs. Pierres, they won't find us. That's clear. [[Applause]] And so you're talking about the mayor of Vilanova, I've already said that matter, and so has the president of the board. I could also ask you what you think of: Sorry, pretty, why you're so bitter, why you're so unhappy. Those things that also say some of the most church representatives that say after many women can't talk: only women can speak of equality and violence masculine, others can't. Carnes of equality and awareness against male violence. This is a matter for all of us. As long as you don't understand that, you'll see this with your eyes that you don't have to see them, they'll tell you things like we don't spend practically nothing, that there's no increase in the budgets of the Galician Union to fight against violence. We have increased a lot, Mrs Pierres, — and I am finished, Mr President — by giving you the exact figures: the budget on an equal basis for the General Secretariat of Equality this year is EUR 25.4 million. But there's another one from the State Covenant, actually. But if there wasn't another State Pact, it would still be 17.4, which is 7.83 per cent more than last year. And in gender violence we have 6.1; last year there were 5.4, so it's a 12 percent more than last year. That's why those amendments that you make, saying we're only going up a hundred thousand euros, lead me to think that, frankly, you either did not analyze or directly did not look at the budgets that the Galician Union has to fight against gender-based violence, against masculine violence and the promotion of equality. Because, if not, I wouldn't tell you that thing that tells us about the ASI funds, that they're finalist funds and that we're incorporating them for next year. But if it's not possible! But if we have just been informed by the Government this year that we will enter it and that we have to spend it in just forty days, without leaving practically and without the possibility of incorporating it! You say we're going to incorporate it, I hope they'll leave us! If you talk to the Ministry of the Fairy and we give them incorporated... of course, that gives you such an absurd sum... And with this ending already, and I think this is a good sample of the hypocrisy that you spend on this, after saying that we have not increased funds in masculine violence and that we have not increased funds for equality: they manage more than four hundred million euros of game changes and, to fight against masculine violence and for equality, they devote zero euros. It's the best summary of his posture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u34	Thank you, Vice President. Now we're going to greet the students and students from the center of FP A Cancela, Pontevedra, and their teachers who accompany them today. They are pupils and students of the higher cycles of Administration and Finance and Management and Administration. Welcome to Parliament. Now yes, you have the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u35	The truth and it is frustrating, with all the issues that we have to talk about, wake up and deliberate on macho violence, which ends up going to the anecdote and confronting certain issues. I'm going to repeat it, in case it's not clear, in case someone has some kind of doubt: indeed, the BNG doesn't seem normal for the State Government Sub-Delegation to count on the Galician Union. I'll tell you here and where to buy, and in fact, we tabled an amendment to a non-law proposal where we asked for that matter to be corrected. Now, I, as Mr. Rueda had made no mention, imagined it was already settled. The way of the solution is to put things on the table and make proposals to make that happen. Because of this, we're not going anywhere. More questions were coming out. Mrs. Prado tried to go a bit along the path of consensus, but in the end she saw it. Well, of course, I have to say, Mrs. Prado, that we are here, you and me, thanks to the signs that feminist movements put in the streets, thanks to those mobilizations. [[Applause]] I think it's not a good way to defeat popular mobilization -- as they did on March 8 and had to correct -- and it's not a good way to criticize what others do when they try to do it positively. In any case, we're going to talk about these issues, but lessons of equality, the right ones. And what I miss is that you come to tell me, when I dedicated half of my intervention to putting into value the Greek framework and saying that we have to look more at our own capabilities than for the Meseta, that you come to tell me that I am not proud of the law that has driven, in addition, the Greek nationalism, but that it is the heritage of all of us. [[Applause]] Of course, I ask them to continue to be proud, to be proud and to defend it proudly there, but also, please, to comply with it. Because if more than half of the State Covenant measures are already covered by our legal framework, which tells us that over the last ten years we could have done much more as a country, we could have done much more. [[Applause]] So, that's why we're going to be there making proposals, but what we don't like is that they give us the reason almost -- as they say popularly -- as crazy and crazy, when later the story doesn't apply. And we can put examples of issues that came out today. For of course, Mr. Rueda saw here a receptacle; I, part of him, may share it, but of course, tell me he agrees with the matter of macho violence in the master's degree. Of course, we all agree, it was an agreement of this parliament. We understand there's a university autonomy, yes, but there's a negotiating margin. You now have a teaching counselor who was a teacher of that master's at this city's university. They invite you to take this seriously, to engage in dialogue and to make it a reality, because it is essential to train teachers who will form our youth. Also, about the issues that came out here, at least you recognized there's something they've recovered that they've removed. That's already an advance because they recognize that something has been taken away at some point, because sometimes we live in a parallel reality. But they're talking, for example, about the reception plan: because they say they're recovering the network of escorts to the victims, they've already cut off. We assume that the time of cuts was a handicap for equality and that we took steps back. There are also issues such as psychological care. It seems to me to be positive that there is a shift of duty; it seems to me positive, although I think it's going very slow the line of trying to make staff stable for psychological care, regardless of the agreements that might be with College of Psychologists and Psychologists. I mean, although I think it's slow. But of course, it's just that if you'd met the precepts that go on in the Law of Machist Violence over these years, maybe we were with a more stable staff and we were already advanced in that sense. So I would ask you: Yes, it's good that you come here to realize what proposals bring, but also, in addition to a registrant, come with a greater capacity of self-criticism and commitment to the future. It's just that, because if we don't, we're not going to move on. I would like to comment on some of the questions — I insist — about funding: we feel that it is essential. And this is a message that we don't just release to the Galician Union, also to all state forces with representation in the state and that will negotiate the next state budgets. We need to demand more as a country. We can't comply with four percent of the resources when we're six percent of the population. We cannot comply with those resources when, in addition, we have a greater capacity to implement more ambitious measures. We therefore believe that Galicia should claim more accounts, taking into account, in addition, the economic situation of the Greek women — in indicators to the tail of the state, which must be compensated — and also taking into account the structural issue of our unjust economic relationship with the State and the lack of funding. Now, what I don't buy from you and tell us, for example, that, of course, if we could invest that money in reforms in the courts... I think it's great, it seems to me great that this is so, but you have your own budget capacity, Mr. Rueda, and it can't be an excuse for such issues as those we already agreed on in January 2017 not to be a more advanced reality. Because you have a lot more capacity than eight million and, if you wanted, you could put eight million more of your own funds, or if you wanted, we could -- and we would propose tomorrow again -- devote more economic resources to issues of macho violence. Therefore, we will have to make proposals — from a critical point of view, to move forward — whether from the German or from the state level, but of course we will continue to demand more commitment from everyone. And I'm just finishing by making a reference — which I haven't had too much time before — to the question of the judicial field in a broader plane. We understand that there must be a good deal of the efforts that come from this framework of the State Pact, but also from its own competences. I believe that we all could read recently — I recommend, if not, that you do so, Mr. Rueda — an article by Iria Pinheiro, a Greek actress who portrayed an article called "The Chronicle of Immundity" the perience that he had to live during a sexual harassment complaint. It's paradigmatic everything she counts, with enviable courage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u37	...about how women live from within the judicial process. We must take these issues absolutely seriously and take more decisive steps, because we have a legal framework, we have budgetary capacity and, theoretically, we have a political consensus on this issue. So — and finally, simply in a sentence, Mr President — we also offer you a proposal. We did so recently through a motion — I don't know if you remember that we had an interpellation at the end of the previous session on sexual violence — and one of the issues proposed by the BNG, and the People's Party voted against, is that annually — we proposed in the first two months of the year — we are also given a report on the sequence of compliance with this State Pact.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u39	It may also include something in the report of the Greek law itself, but the question is that we have to follow up rigorously and on a calendar basis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u41	And that's why we invite him to commit himself today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u42	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u43	...to make this appearance, minimum, once a year, in those terms and accompanied by a document. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u44	Thank you. Mrs. Presas, your time is up. Look at the clock. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u45	Well, thank you President. Mr. Rueda, you should know how budgets work. Our amendments, those that you just commented on, do not exist, if they are, are in the partial amendments, here they are. It's more than three million that we ask to increase in the budgets of the Galician Union on subjects, in addition to gender-based violence. [[Mrs. Pierres shows you a document to the members of the House.]] I invite you to see them. [[Applause]] As you're used to ignoring them and passing your knee, I understand you had no knowledge. Sure. [[Mr. Rueda Valenzuela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] On the other hand, Mrs. Prado, I'm actually listening to her, I'm desubposed. I resign myself because it seemed that you were the most constructive Member in the history of this parliament. And, frankly, do you know what we really regret from the Socialist Group? [[Murmurs.]] What we regret is that it's the Union that's been taking out of equality for so long. That's what we regret from the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] But let me now analyse the management of equality policies with a constructive spirit. Two years have passed since we had legislation and two years have been claiming the equality plan of the administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The plan that follows in the shadow and on what yesterday itself, in addition, we received a written reply — which is timely, yesterday! — to announce that they are working on it, but that they need more time to analyze the previous reality. At last, shadows that hinge on the shadows that already existed. Take note and example of other public administrations -- why not? -- like the Provincial Deputy of Pontevedra, who has been counting on him since December 2017, and it will not be for the work that Mr. Louzán has done, and you know it. [[Applause]] And they take note, too, of what it means to promote equality, which is far from that attempt by Mr Feijóo to blow up the 8M feminist strike with minimum illegal services, as just confirmed by the High Court of Justice of Galicia, that the German Government acted with a desire to deprive the unemployed of a considerable impact to try to boycott them. I suppose you'll have a good explanation for this, but what we think is that it's more a symptom of what you're doing, and that your respect for equality is manifested only when there's micros, when there's headlines and cameras ahead. And if we continue to analyze the actions of this legislation, we find that, in 2014, an exploratory study on trafficking has been conducted, but the truth is that since then not a single action or action has been carried out against it since that time. With regard to the German Law for the Prevention and Comprehensive Treatment of Gender Violence, as you know, it is mandatory to submit annual reports, and so on. Even though the statistical data are gradually completed every year, they are still scarce and little detailed. It remains unknown the true state of disappearance of the minor children of victims of gender-based violence, which prevents effective follow-up by social services, as well as knowing the real situation of disappearance in which they can be found after the murder of their mothers. I understand that the measure you announced today goes this way, and I am glad. As for the specific judges of gender-based violence, there are only two, in the Coruña and Vigo, and their implementation is necessary also in all the major cities of Galicia. Let's remember, there were 6,436 allegations of gender violence last year. This amounts to 13.3 percent more overload for the judges, already saturated by themselves, a question that justifies — we believe — enormously the increase in the number of those judges. There is also a need for a clear impetus to specific training which is needed in these cases in the judicial field, but also in all areas. In detail, you will be aware that of the forty-five professionals who are part of the technical team of the General Secretariat of Equality, only four people have equal training. We believe that we must take seriously what we have in our hands, Mr Rueda, and demand the professionalism and expertise that deserves this work. If you don't do your homework at home, you'll hardly be able to transfer credibility out of it. It is a demand, that of the best training, that we extend to the CIS, where we need a greater presence — we believe — of equality agents. And precisely with regard to these, we believe it is important to comment on how the idea of an integrated CIM network has been shifted to a territorial level. However, only 80 municipalities receive grants and one hundred and thirty-seven lack a CISG. Many are maintained with the city hall's own services and resources. From the Socialist Group we believe that it is necessary to strengthen that real CIM network, and not fiction, and it is also necessary for the General Secretariat to stop doing partisanism and demagogy with the closure and opening of some of them. Because much complains when the services are of municipalities where the PP does not rule, but very quiet and very nostalgic before the closure of some, such as the CIM of Vilanova de Arousa, where we meet again with Mr. Durán, this man of the People's Party so involved with feminism and women, and who, of course, also has the silence of the Secretary General of Equality on his side. [[Applause]] They improve coordination between ICDs, they boost that real network of centers, and they do it, please, without partying, to ensure an integral service for women throughout Galicia. Finally, Mr Rueda, they take advantage of the opportunity to grant them the funds of the State Covenant against Violence to effectively implement the measures you have just announced, but also the rest of the measures contained in the pact, to also cover all the deficiencies we have just reported, and to abandon, yes, that attitude that it seems to have been to stay, to live the rest of the state. For our part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u47	Thank you, President. The truth is, I hope we didn't have to answer to the spokesperson of the People's Party and I hope we had a constructive debate and a debate really to talk about the important situation that we have ahead, which is to fight against the violence of machos, but incoherence has no limits. That is, you want to reach agreements and consensus by insulting them. And besides, he doesn't insult opposition groups, today he attacked one hundred two Greek municipalities, attacked three deputies and attacked a lot of people who are working in a campaign on November 25th. This is a campaign that I think they do not accept and that they do not want to join it by party, by skin party, so that the People's Party does not appear in a campaign that is already plural, heterogeneous, with municipalities of all political colors, and that knows that it does a fundamental work of awareness and visibility, but also of real struggle against violence against machoism. The fact that a cartel does not appear is that there is a cartel, that cartel is accompanied by a lot of other measures, a lot of other matters. So, please have a little respect, not for the opposition groups, but for all the municipalities in the country, who are making the greatest of their efforts to fight against macho violence. Besides, it's so much said about the constructive attitude that no one here spoke of the wonderful campaign that took out the Council of Galicia last year on November 25. [[Applause]] It's really! If you want to talk about that campaign, that campaign is so useful for the women of this country. This audience will be accompanied, and, fortunately, there are a lot of equality initiatives in this plenary. From En Marea we present two, and we hope that they will vote favourably, because both propose measures that I understand will agree with what they expressed today in their speech. So we hope that the attendance and the words that have been put out here today will be accompanied by the vote in favour of these two initiatives. Then, speaking of the abstention from the State Covenant, we abstain for many reasons, and we ratify ourselves in our decision; a year later we ratify ourselves and I think we have more weight to abstain from these matters. There were profound differences in approach, because they refused to incorporate many measures that spoke of prevention and equality, saying that it was a pact against violence. We do not understand this differentiation, we believe that prevention and equality obviously go hand in hand with violence. Violence is only a final consequence, the most explicit consequence, the most cruel consequence, but obviously it is based on the inequalities that women live in, because they have left out forms of violence collected in the Istanbul Convention itself; that happened. It has already been said here that the Istanbul Convention is ratified, and today we must continue to insist that an agreement be taken forward of what we must carry forward. Then, because in addition to this covenant was an advance. But it wasn't really a state pact, and a year later it was checked that it wasn't a state pact because it didn't have the support of the state, because basically there's no political will to carry forward the measures, which, as I say, were insufficient, that they weren't all, that they had a different approach to what we would think, but even these did not move forward. A year later, what legal realization, what concrete budget for each measure and what timing? Because at that time this pact was sold as soon as it was to be taken forward. That's what was sold at that time, and the headlines and the hemerotheca are all over the world. So what we demanded to vote in favour of this pact is that every measure had a concrete budget. If we're going to do this, with how much money; if not, it's no good to say that if you're going to do something then there's no specific budget that goes hand in hand. Budgets have failed; budgets put in there, which were insufficient, too; although they were insufficient, have failed. And those 200 million later didn't show up anywhere. There was no timing either. If we assume that all measures cannot be taken immediately, because we put a timetable, let's put a time horizon, because we don't want this to be forgotten within two years, the measures of the Covenant that have gone ahead and are taking, and those that are not. There is no legislative development either. It's just that it's no use what we put on a paper, because, for example, here in Galicia we have some of the most advanced legislations, which we greet and which is very positive, because also starting to name different types of violence already has a direct implication, but it's that this has not followed up many times the public policies that have been carried forward in recent years. So, despite what the papers put on, we also need those papers to have a real, material translation in women's lives; real budgets, not cuts in fundamental issues that affect women and in fundamental issues for equality. And in legislative development you know very well that there are many issues of the law that remain to be developed, which are to be realized above all. I would also like to ask you about the issue of housing resources — which did not give me time in the first intervention — a little bit can be deepened on that issue and tell us how they planned to improve the reception network. He spoke of some timely cases, but you can go deep and talk about something else, because we insist very much that it is fundamental, not only obviously the foster homes, which are the most urgent resource and which must be temporary, but rather a stable housing resource, where women can also live in effective freedom.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u49	And then, as I said, there are contradictions between the Covenant and among many of the issues that arise. It's just that it's very obvious, that is, how can you say that that pact didn't go forward thanks to Podemos? We work a lot for that Greek pact. Our group has been working, has been at all meetings and has been proposing a lot of women, a lot of experts, and has listened to a lot of appearances, and I have proposed a lot of measures from the approved ones. And it's more: once the Covenant was closed all the legislative measures that were left out, our group presented bills, it presented initiatives so that everything that had been left out would go ahead. And the People's Party has often blocked it, blocked measures for equality. So they don't say that consensus and agreement, when you systematically just want the pact of your proposals. Yes, it's true, Paula...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u51	...and talking about the pact with a constant attitude of attack because, the truth, it makes it quite difficult. So, in the pacts, if we really want a pact, we work on our feet and equality, not applying the issue of the majority issue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pierres, we discussed the cross-sectional amendments yesterday in this Chamber. The Socialist Group presented an alternative budget to the budget that brought the Government of the People's Party to this chamber. And you in that alternative budget that they wanted for Galicia, not what the Government of the People's Party brought, they mobilized four hundred million euros, from which they set zero euros for gender equality and violence, Mrs. Pierres. Let me now speak to you about partial amendments! [[Applause]] We're talking about the alternative budget you presented yesterday in this chamber, where they mobilized 400 million euros more, and zero for gender equality and violence. That's the data. And the data are unquestionable, because they're in writing, and yesterday's debate took place, and it's also in the Journal of Sessions, and you can check it out. Let's talk about closing information centers to the woman. Look, Mrs. Pierres: the CIM of Vilanova de Arousa is one of the first CIMs of Galicia; there were five. Yes, he was one of the first; just, but he didn't shut up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't lie, you haven't closed, you've joined the Salne community. Do you know which CIM in the province of Pontevedra you've closed? [[Murmurs.]] The one of Ponte Caldelas, under a socialist government, Mrs. Pierres. [[Murmurs.]] The CIM of Vilanova hasn't closed, Mrs. Pierres; it doesn't lie because it hasn't closed. Mrs. Presas, I didn't criticize the banners or the mobilizations of associationism and feminism, no. I specifically criticized that there is a council in Galicia that spends hundreds of thousands of euros on banners, sheets and shirts, and at the Information Center to the Woman of the Town Hall of Santiago there were months in which there was no legal attention to women victims of gender violence. That's what I'm critical of. [[Protests.]] We have to spend money on attention, not propaganda and advertising. That's my critique, Mrs. Presas. And you must criticize him, too. And I'm sure you're not in agreement either that the Information Centre for the Woman of Santiago had no legal attention to women who were victims of gender-based violence. What do you agree with me, Mrs. Presas? Yes, he won't, but I'm sure he will. I agree with you in funding, I agree that we have to open this debate, I agree that autonomous communities have to have another funding, and Galicia has to put the problem of population dispersion on the table. Of course I agree with you, what happens is that we have a government of the state that is in other things, it's in marketing, advertising and gesture policy. And I hardly see Mr. Pedro Sánchez sitting in the autonomous communities to open the debate on funding. [[Applause]] Mrs Pierres, for this honourable Member, of a hard speech, has already reached many agreements in this chamber, because with that voice you come here, which seems to have your hand stretched out... Oh, she's a machist. [[Protests.]] Maybe you're a maquist who tells you... I already say I'm a hard-spoken Member, I'm a hard-spoken speaker; you're a crystal jaw, you can't stand any criticism. Ah! it's because I say it, if a fellow of mine said it, they would say he's a machist, but as I say it still softens. But, well, there are also women who have macho attitudes, and we can go to the president of the Pontevedra Parliament every day. Not because she's a woman, not if she's a machist. Now, I say one thing to you, Mrs Pierres: in the years that you have been in this Chamber, you have reached a lot of agreements, and in this legislation you have also been part of agreements that we have signed all the groups. You and I have reached agreements, as well as Mrs. Quinteiro and Mrs. Presas. Even those coming to this state pact of what we are talking about today were by consensus of all groups. Mrs. Quinteiro, don't say we roll. With his arrivals in the State Covenant for Galicia, didn't you agree, didn't we incorporate his approach? Of course you do, Mrs. Quinteiro! Don't say we're not getting close. That's not true. Don't miss the truth. We, on an equal footing, have assumed and tried to reach agreements on all proposals. It's true that we have ideological differences, it's true that in some things we're never going to come to an agreement, but in what we agree, I'm convinced that we'll be able to put black on white in a document, and I'm convinced that we'll come to a Greek pact for gender violence. I'm absolutely convinced. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pierres, you say the board is out of equality. That's what you want. Putting Together out of equality. And that's why they don't call you to coordination meetings of the Government Delegation. But you won't, the Galician Union will continue to work for equality, you've always worked with the Government of the People's Party has always worked for equality, you will continue to work for equality and you are working for equality. And the data Mr. Vice-President has just given you show that Galicia is working for equality despite the Socialist Party and the Government of the State, which wants to exclude the Board from the coordination work of gender-based violence. They won't make it, Mrs. Pierres. Mrs. Quinteiro, I believe that of the three hundred measures that the State Covenant had some would like you. Even today the vice president has already said that some are already in progress. The shift of psychological attention, for example, comes from the state pact, comes from the approaches we have made from Galicia. Don't you think that's worth voting for? I understand that you want more, but I believe that all progress in equality, because it costs us a lot of work to make progress in equality, of course it cost us a lot of work! But, precisely for that reason, any progress that is in equality I think we have an obligation to support it, I think we have a duty to all political representatives to support any small measure that progress in equality and, above all, to serve the care of victims of gender violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u55	I'm convinced that in spite of my harsh speech, we'll all come to an agreement, and we'll have very soon a Greek pact against gender violence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Close this meeting, Mr Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Presas, the government delegation's call to exclude the Union is not anecdotal, it's a symptom, it's a symptom. That's why I think it's good that we talk about it, because there everyone wants to deal with this issue. That's why I thank you again for your constructive tone. But it was all a symptom. Then there was a round table, and we were also excluded from talking there. Now it looks like they're starting to rectify. And I'm glad, because if what's going on is to hit everyone. And we are also grateful for the fact that it has been found that it is not normal for the Council of Galicia to be excluded from what the State calls for. We all have to be at the summons of all; this is one thing of all. Tell me I've come with a recipeer. No, no, but a number of measures we want to do -- and some that haven't said them on a matter of time -- and do a lot of things. That's why I'm saying that everything that we're proposed and created, and I'll explain to them if we think it can't be the reason, it's good. I talked about universities because it's the one you proposed, if you propose anything else... and, of course, I agree that we're going to talk a lot to the three universities, we're going to do a lot of things that aren't being done until now. So we have the negotiating capacity to ask for that. It's not up to us, because the deal has to be between two parts, but, of course, we're going to propose it. And she talks about the reception network — Mrs Quinteiro also spoke about it. There are some problems with the municipalities, there are problems in Ferrol, there are problems in Lugo... and what we're going to try is to solve them and expand the reception network. This year was a particularly difficult year, unfortunately for all, because we had to go to this resource more often than other years. And so here we need the essential collaboration of the municipalities, and where problems are detected — Ferrol and Lugo — we have to try to fix them. And there's going to be five hundred thousand euros more to expand these resources, which are urgent, almost as the first solution. Because then it was the second. I was asked by Mrs Quinteiro to detail a little more — I will now do the part where I will try to answer her — about the housing proposals we make within the State Pact. I was also talking about Mrs. Presas from the judges' teams. We have just reinforced the fourteen professions that are already structurally, we have just approved the Vice-President's employment relationship, it will be approved by the board of directors, and that is already consolidated there. And there's more to it, but it's fourteen that are already incorporated in a definitive way. And I'm sure that once these proposals are put in place on the psychological shift teams and on the victim care offices, all of this will be consolidated. I agree with one thing -- it seems to me that you weren't the only one who said it -- about the judges of gender-based violence. In fact, there are two in Galicia nothing more exclusive, then there are the mixes and then there are those who have to deal with cases of male violence in many judicial parties. I think it is a good proposal — and we have already talked about it at the sectoral conference — that, first of all, in all cities there was an exclusive trial and that then we will try to comarcate those, so that the current situation is not given. We agree with that. It's not up to us, first, to create judicial units and, second, to say exactly where they have to go. But if you also agree with the High Court of Justice — and I think this has to work with objective criteria — it was good to put it forward, and it is likely to be proposed at the state level, so that at least in cities there would be an exclusive trial. In the meantime, we're strengthening the staff of those judges with prolonged newspapers and additional economic resources. You say, "and a follow-up report on the implementation of the pact." I agree, and I think it's good that once a year I appear or who has the responsibilities at every moment to realize how it's going to run. So I am getting this commitment here today, which seems to me to be a logical proposal and a proposal that must be accepted. Mrs. Quinteiro, all campaigns are respectable, both those that you agree with and those that you don't like and disagree with. I think we must respect them all, because they all intend to end macho violence and denounce the situations that are taking place. The Galician Union — in the end, the Government and all the Greeks and the Greeks — will take a walk on Sunday, will be the president of the Union. I invite you to come to this walk because it's going to be out of political color and there's going to be a lot of women's associations, and I suppose -- if you have ideology -- of all political ideologies, they're not ideological associations. They'll be there. I'd invite you. It would be a very good sign that you and all parliamentarians and parliamentarians would go to that walk too, which is an institutional walk and not of any political party. And then we'll see that, in fact, everything you're saying is true and supported by facts. And it's good for you to justify your group's abstention from Congress. I'd rather not go into it. I'm just saying that by moving what we have to do, I wouldn't like it if I'd already come to the Calendar State Pact and with exact amounts in every place saying what to do. I prefer that it be an open framework and that then each autonomous community can decide what it thinks is most necessary and urgent to do in its territory. Because, in addition, if we went with that system, because probably what would happen is that the advantage we have of things that are already done would become a disadvantage because we would all leave the same situation and we would all have to do the same with the same money. Look, there are things you're already doing here with your own funds, and we can go to more things that other communities won't be able to do because they start almost from zero. So I think this is a good system. And now our responsibility is to supply content, now that there is budget allocation, and to try to make it more budget allocation as well. I'm going back to saying that I think it's good that this guy evaluates what he's doing every single one of them. And what's hurting things doesn't have to have more resources or equal resources than what's doing them right. We try to be in the group of those who try to do things right. The one about the housing resource, I was wondering. I have already told Mrs Presas — and I have now told Mrs Presas — that the reception homes are going to have an increase — between those already there and those we want to open, this Navy center for women with disabilities and mental health problems, women who are victims of gender violence -- of 500 thousand more; in principle, open departure, and if necessary, more money will have to be put. And then also, apart from the reception centres, the emergency resources -- as I told you -- that comprehensive housing access plan, which will be for women victims of gender violence, for their orphans and for their caregivers, if women were killed. And it's going to consist of twelve consecutive monthly bonds that can be extended for situations that demand it, 2.5 million euros, expandable too. In principle, that's what we put on. We know it's a game that needs registration, and it's going to be done through an IGVS order, a social bonus with preferential access among all the orders that IGVS calls. If you want more details, we can give them, but this is a little more concrete. And finally, Mrs. Pierres, I ask you to respect the staff of the General Secretariat of Equality. The staff of the General Secretariat of Equality are trained for what they are doing. You just said that you have no training and that you are doing things the way anyone could do them. I ask you a respect, I know you have no respect for most things, you have no respect to understand that masculine violence is one thing of all. Home!, a respect for officials and civil servants. That's the least. Then I'd like you to tell me which information center of the woman is going to incorporate the Town Hall of Ponte Caldelas. Vilanova's has joined the Commonwealth. And we'd like to know, because the truth is that today the women of Ponte Caldelas have no resources to go to in their county, nor do they know where to go elsewhere. This is the truth. And there she's very quiet, because she knows she can't say anything at all. Vilanova's in the Commonwealth. I ask you, where is Ponte Caldelas? And as long as you don't answer that, we're seeing the inconsistencies of the things you support. [[Applause]] The budget has already answered Mrs Prado: you moved zero euros. And now it says they move three million in cross-sectional amendments. They repented, noticed the mistake, and now realize that something has to be put on. We thank you very much for that correction, welcome! [[Murmurs.]] Just like the summons that the state makes us from now on; this one realized that it couldn't be. And, therefore, while you're rectified, bravo! If here's the point, Mrs. Pierres. And I'm done now, Mr President, pointing out that I have come here on behalf of the Greek Government to fulfil the obligation to say that we want to do with those terms and that we want to do to develop the State Covenant against Gender Violence, which has to be a Greek pact against gender violence. That's why I'm once again making that invitation, for the last time, to make contributions, to make proposals, to be agreed among all of us. We propose the aid of employment integration through businesses and municipalities — this is a novelty — and we propose the good housing — which was now detailed to Mrs Quinteiro —; we propose to do much more in the area of prevention and education to prevent situations of violence against men; we propose to do much more and put on stable equipment in the courts; we propose to have a much more impact on the masculine violence, which is so forgotten in the rural but so present by misfortune; we propose, finally, that we achieve it among all. I think it was necessary right now and now that we have just had the appropriations. This is a pact for years, this is a pact that has to last, it has to try to solve a lot of things, and we'll do it if we're able to do it between us all. Of course, the Government of Galicia won't stay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u58	Thank you, Vice President. We move on to agenda item 2, legislative texts. Debate on the Proposal for a Law, a popular legislative initiative, for the protection and improvement of indigenous forest habitats, the rationalization of mountain management and the fight against forest fires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u59	For the presentation and defense of the bill has the word Mrs. Virxinia Rodríguez Álvarez — to whom I pray she approaches the panel of speakers — for a time of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am Virginia Rodríguez, president of Adega, and I come to this chamber to defend the bill, of popular legislative initiative, for the protection and improvement of indigenous forest habitats, the rationalization of mountain management and the fight against forest fires. I speak on behalf of the Commission promoting the initiative, composed of representatives of the Alliance for a Vivo Rural Environment - Adega, the IGC, the Fruga, the Galician Community Organization of Montes and the PDR - and supported by more than sixty organizations that integrate the Cousa de Roots network: environmentalists, cultural associations, agricultural and class trade unions, mountain communities, companies and universities, and who accompany me in the rostrum today. I am particularly proud to be the voice of about 40,000 people who have given explicit support with their signature to this popular legislative initiative, to whom I want to thank from here for their commitment and enthusiasm. This is one of the most supported environmentalist ILPs in the history of our self-government, overcoming the signatures collected in the ILP for the defense of rivers, adopted in 2006, and the most recent one in 2013 for recycling. It is also the second ILP of a forest nature presented in the last thirty years, which indicates the concern for the forests and the mountains of the Galician society. That is why this bill, whether or not it is approved, has already reached one of its objectives: to involve thousands of people from all over the country and to hundreds of collectives and entities of various sensibilities in the defence of the forest. People and collectives who have assumed as their own the messages and objectives of this bill, and to whom we want again to transfer our gratitude. We have also managed to bring to the streets a debate that has so far seemed taboo, especially in rural areas: the monoculture of eucalyptus as a country problem, where the problem of Greek forest is placed in the local political agendas, the state and the European Union itself. Let me now briefly examine the reasons for the proposals set out in this bill: We have found that despite the importance of the mountain surface in Galicia, around two-thirds of the total territory, sectoral policies have not been able to reconcile the productive aspects of the mountain with the conservation of natural habitats, and particularly of the native, historically degraded forests, and every day more diminished with respect to fast-growing tree plantations. We also found the scarce surface occupied by the mountains of public management. The primary vocation of these spaces should be the conservation of valuable natural habitats, the key to the depreciation of the effects of climate change, the conservation of biodiversity and the reduction of the impacts of forest fires. It is therefore necessary to clarify the guiding principles of mountain management in order to ensure real compatibility of its various uses, as well as to increase public management through agreements with mountain owners and communities. The reinforcement of the figure of the joint neighbouring mountains, the promotion of associationism and training are keys to an integral and sustainable management of the mountain, from the mountain to the mountain. The upcoming Forest Plan of 1992, with an application horizon of forty years, and currently under review, aimed at a maximum extension of the eucalyptus of two hundred and forty thousand hectares. In the first National Forest Inventory (IFN1) of 1972, the eucalyptus was present in a total of 131,181 hectares. For the most recent, IFN4, held in Galicia in 2009, the eucalyptus was already about 433,915 hectares, between pure masses and mixed masses. At this point, the estimate is that in Galicia the area of eucalyptals can exceed 55,000 hectares, doubling, to the lack of fourteen years, the maximum forecasts of the 2032 Forest Plan. In proportion to the total territory, this species already covers 17 percent of the whole of the territory of Greece, while in Portugal it reaches only 9 percent. This data highlights not only the important area occupied by the eucalyptus, but the anomalous fact that of all European states, only Spain and Portugal allow the monoculture of this tree. We also found that the increase of the eucalypt surface is favored by a model of use of the heavily forested mountain, which bets on the production of wood of little added value, forgetting other uses. This dysfunction has to do with the consequences of the common agricultural policy (CAP) and the lack of expectations of the family economies in rural areas, which lead to the abandonment of agriculture and the depopulation of rural Galicia. This is precisely the cultivation broth for forest fires, favored by climate change and the majority pyrophyte character of the species employed. We have already witnessed the catastrophic consequences of a new type of fire, which deepens the current failure of a forest model and fire fighting. In this way, the failure of a sustainable, multifunctional and socially inclusive production model results in the fate of many mountains and agrarian lands ending to be the monoculture, particularly of eucalyptus, and finally the fire. This invasion is also affecting protected spaces and land, violating legislation sometimes too permissive and discretionary. It is therefore necessary to regulate the cultivation of the eucalyptus, beginning with decreeing a moratorium on new specimens of this species, just like Portugal has just done. Taking advantage of the process of developing the new forest plan, this moratorium would aim to evaluate the impacts of almost fifty years of monoculture on natural habitats and ecosystem services that mountains present to society, in order to establish conditions for a compatible use of this species. With regard to Eucalyptus nitens, this variety is occupying the new spaces given its greatest resistance to the cold, stretching the eucalyptization inside Galicia. In spite of not having the legal consideration of invasive exotic species, the nitens is, as has just been recognized in a statement by the Scientific Committee of Flora and Wild Fauna of the Spanish Ministry of the Environment. As a result, public administrations should ban their cultivation throughout the territory by their well-known exotic and invasive character, as well as put in place control and eradication plans in those areas in which it is already present. We are aware that intensive forest use with alloctone, pyrophilic and fast-growing species leads to the deterioration of ecosystem services, that such as natural diversity, water availability, soil fertility or landscape quality are important for the life and maintenance of our society's economic activities. Monocultures, whether for wood, pasta or biomass, also affect the higher frequency and intensity of fires, the contamination of land and rivers with agrochemicals and cellulose vegetables, the impoverishment of biodiversity and the advance of erosion, causing direct economic losses and loss of profits. This forest model also contributes to fossilizing large amounts of public resources through the Pladiga, which costs around EUR one hundred and sixty million annually. It is therefore imperative to increase caution and clarify legal determinations, improve and ensure compliance with standards and address the recovery of original uses and the regeneration of habitats degraded by illegal plants. It is also urgent to address the mitigation of the effects of forest fires and the protection of natural and cultural heritage. We cannot forget that the pedregal of Irimia, a natural and cultural heritage, is terrified by a plantation, which for us is illegal, of eucalyptus. Well, I left the script and then I have to go back. I'm sorry. For the Pladiga, a plan to prevent and defend Galician forest fires, should focus on prevention, annual character and be approved in the last quarter of the year prior to implementation. We also found that, despite what was adopted in the 1992 Forest Plan, twenty-six years later, we continued without an inventory of native leafy masses, a fundamental tool for planning not only conservation measures, but also for designing management strategies that maximize the benefits of the indigenous forest. The models of use of the mountain that bet on multifunctional uses, the use of native species and the maintenance of ecosystem services should be dominated by direct and indirect incentives, exemptions, even without having a productive end. Our natural forests provide an important service to society, so it seems logical that this impact of its benefits to those communities of mountains and landowners who bet on their conservation and sustainable use. As a result, it is urgent to address the development of the inventory of indigenous leafland masses, as already provided for in the 1992 Forest Plan, and to incorporate their conclusions into future planning. To promote the maintenance of native trees, even without a productive objective, should be compatible with the use of raw materials and forests, with particular attention to small and medium-sized timber processing companies, the quality furniture industry and the exploitation of other resources, such as fruits, mushrooms, medicinal plants, etc., as well as cultural and scientific. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of these considerations and given the territorial weight of the Galician mountain, we believe it is urgent to take the measures contained in this bill to ensure its sustainable management and, in particular, a least traumatic adaptation to the challenges of climate change. We also tell them that this is not a bill against the eucalyptus, but against the management that is being done against it, because it is in favour of the native forest and the sustainable use of the mountain. Recognizing the failure of the 1992 Forest Plan and the large evasa derived from the prevailing model in the last thirty years is the first step towards correcting them. From the Commission we are open to debate and consensus on the proposals discussed here, knowing that if there is a will it is always possible to reach an agreement. That's why we ask them to take this ILP into consideration so we can look for a sustainable future for the hills and forests of Galicia. We hope that on this second occasion we will not turn our backs on this future. Why can you tell me, ladies and gentlemen, who we will be without our forests? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Álvarez. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Just like today, I don't know how many years ago, that witch-faced man we knew with the sad nickname of Malaga Carnicier was going out on that black and white television to give the news that he couldn't get there. And we drank champagne with our heart in a fist, and we celebrated and felt hope when we saw that the bug was deadly. I want to remember it out loud all the years of my life. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the brutal process of late deforestation that our country has suffered has brought together a massive forest with pine and more with eucalyptus, which has left our land useful on a dangerous twenty-one percent of the territory. But this accelerated derailment did not result in the modernization of the field, nor in an acceptable mechanism nor in economic or social revitalization; it changed the way of life in an accelerated and radical way. It was a phenomenon suffered in solitary without assistance, without opening new avenues, without structural measures to retrain the transformation that had taken place throughout Europe, which was lately convulsing the economy and society in a traumatic way and left as a balance the abandonment of large areas of territory and the transvasion of its population into peri-urban areas of the Atlantic. Meanwhile, the authorities of the late-franquism of the People's Party were looking elsewhere. I didn't go with them. They all dreamed of getting out of the country. Yes, the alternative of industrial development could be in grants to friends, in political falsehood, in precariousness, in growing frustration. Already Icona, in an operation of lack of reality and ignorance in this country, had begun the fashion of the fires: to force the lands that had always served to feed the cattle and to complement the crops and the life of the Greek families. Now the unknown pine trees reached the door of the houses, and the fire was a deaf protest and the end of the problem. But walking around the eighties, in that radical rotation of derailment, of abandonment of agricultural activity, a counselor appears who in a clear service to the lobby of the Cinderella begins a time of subsidy to the eucalyptus and destruction of the transformer tissue, read: sawdust, furniture. They pay for abandoning the activity, for stopping producing, for occupying lands with a plant that we all see ends with the good soil and expands the fires, the alcoholic. The world's over, the world's backwards. Today we walk around 17 percent of the surface occupied by this species. But this percentage has to be explained, because there are vast areas in the country that do not support this tree, which explains that others, such as the Navy, Arzua, Boimorto and the Atlantic Strip, have an occupation of eucalyptus of nearly 50 percent of their territory. And I know what I'm talking about. How did this quick derailment and abandonment succeed? By paying, yes, paying, and convincing people that stay in the field had no future, encouraging rejection by itself. Living in rural is a delay, and in the meantime, come eucalyptus! And so today we have completed this almost collective suicide. How were we able to come to such stupidity? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is foolish that a territory with a large part of its mountain suitable for forest crops of quality is at the service of the refrigerator, with no hint of forestry practice and giving up a necessary balance, a multifunctionality that diversifys its sustainable use and a biodiversity that ensures an economy of transformation of the nobility of our traditional woods. It's been hours for someone to think of positive in rural Welsh and legislate for his permanence and wealth, to do it from his real knowledge and to play in favor of his existence as a niche of progress. It's not understandable that this lot of quality, instead of serving the diversification of functions, is spent on an infra-style crop that ended with the first and second processing industry within a period of almost twenty years. Because brutal deforestation has meant that much of the land's property is passed to the hands of absenteeists, who do not live in rural or rural areas. That's how that large part of mountain agrarian surface is in dead hands, unproductive. That's how we look! Here's the People's Party summary program. Because having a serious country problem with our rural and our mountain, the PP government, with decades of responsibility for applied policies, continues to deny you solutions. Opts, yes, by backward policies in time; opts to refuse to look forward by playing in favour of the richness of diversity, of sustainability and of balance; maintains a land without ordination in the uses of the earth, indispensable ordination for any modern country with future projects; maintains a use of the earth — it is a talk — without giving rise to the atomization of property with suitable solutions in its management, which do not violate the identity of our people; maintains a mountain without proper management of forest masses that are ascribed by the diversity of the mosaic, the wealth of noble woods and multifunctionality in uses that interfere the prevention of fires with activities, crops and uses, which make population, provide income in the primary and transformation of it. Because Galicia has the right to hope, it has the right to take advantage of its resources for the benefit of its people, taking the greatest advantage of its territory without mortgage and respecting its permanence in the time of future generations. But given the policies agreed upon and agreed upon in the fire committees, which mean more than that, more unordered afforestation, ultimately more than the failure of thirty years of growth of the eucalyptus forest, with only one destination: to manufacture cellulose to sell to businesses from outside, without taking advantage of any added value. Because Galicia has the right to an integral development of its countryside, where the mountain plays a crucial role: to improve the productivity of its native trees, capable of producing wood and fruit of quality, stimulating value chains, transforming here, by fixing in our population the added value of this transformation. Because the Greeks have the right to overcome the atomization of property with voluntary cooperation formulas that are respectful of our idiosyncrasy, which enable us to extract a sustainable yield from our mountains, while at the same time defending us from the threats of the fire by providing a management around the cores. Of course, we're talking about Uxfor, like, that formula of cooperation between owners who so upset the PP of Ence. And so they had to invent an insular hybrid called Sofor, that in nine years they didn't reach half a dozen and they didn't go. Because our mountain can produce profitable pasture for the extensive cattle — pigs, sheep, goats, cows... — which is a source of meat resources and defends against the viciousness of our habitat, which from so long as it grows can turn against us the way of fire, natural biomass managers. Because on our mountain you have the crops of plows, mushrooms, kiwis, beans, olive trees, opening up markets of produce in fresh or preserved, or in other derivatives that leave in us the added value and in others its excellences. Because for all this and much more we're going to need our technicians and researchers who put their knowledge, creativity and effort into transforming this abandonment and this monopoly of insanity into a common task of valuing the above-mentioned and undervalued potentials by those who believe they own the consciences and dreams of a people who give up sleep and apathy, the convenience of the silencers of freedom. But to give hope we need courageous, determined policies based on knowledge and love for this country and its people. It's not in the denial of the eucalyptus, nor in the repudiation of the disorderly forestation where the hope we have in our rural BNG is born; it's born in the conviction of its potentials, it's born of the earth and more of the people. We will vote in favour of this popular initiative that removes the heart and renews the common sense, of course. And we encourage everyone's reflection, ladies and gentlemen, because this country we're talking about is all of us. And we all have the right and the duty to rationally exploit their resources so that they serve the children of our children. Amen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u63	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. We also want to greet and welcome the promoters of this bill that accompany us today. I want to begin my speech by highlighting a certain parallelism between what we are debating today and what we discussed a couple of months ago in this same chamber. From this, we address the legislative text of the discussion of taking into account the proposed law, of popular initiative, for the protection and improvement of indigenous forest habitats and rationalization of mountain management and the fight against forest fires. Thus, on 11 September 2018, we address the debate and vote of Ditome issued by the Special Committee for the Study and Analysis of Forest Policy Reforms, Forest Fire Prevention and the Galician Forest Plan, assessing the experience accumulated since 2006 and, specifically, the extraordinary wave of fires that has just suffered from Galicia in October 2017. Both initiatives, the debate and the debate we are discussing, seem to have a certain degree of similarity and coincidence in their statements. That's why I wanted to, and I want to establish that dubious parallelism between the two initiatives. But from our point of view, the similarities and coincidences between the two initiatives are anecdotal and relegated to the role of witnesses. The Socialist Group's position is neither partisan nor electoralist, nor is it subject to conditioning; it is a position that has to do with the past, the present and the future of the rural environment. Go ahead and let's not question the forms of this bill. It's more: we consider the ILPs, the popular legislative initiatives, as a very useful tool of civil society. Nor do we question the intention of this initiative, even though we have doubts about the temporary opportunity for this debate. The discrepancies with this bill have to do with their content, with the bottom of the initiative, with their proposals, as I shall explain later. They also have to do with our political conviction on these issues, which has been staged in the recent past. And the recent past I want to use to visualize our position, in the forms and in the background, was the Special Commission for the Study and Analysis of Forest Plan Reforms and more. Our position is based on the experience of the past, on the goals of the future and on the proposals of the present. The proposals of the present Socialist Group were collected at a high percentage in the Commission's opinion, in the form of recommendations, adopted by this Chamber on 11 September 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, the October 2017 fire strike has generated alarm, pain, dramatic situations and awareness of insecurity in citizenship and institutions. It has quieted the feeling, even the certainty, that future fires based on climate change will be devastating if we remain motionless and reluctant to change policies. They generated alarm, pain, dramatism, but they also generated an opportunity and need around the fires, around forest policy, around the countryside. And a study commission was created, not an investigation commission; a commission was created to build, not to overthrow; a commission to bring solutions, not guilty. So, the Socialist Group had no doubt about it, which was based on the conviction that forest policy should be a matter of country where we should all make an effort. We knew about the risks of the operation started, of the fees to be paid, of the misunderstanding, but we could more, much more, of the conviction of taking advantage of a unique opportunity. A unique opportunity to reform forest policy in the prevention and extinction of fires and to achieve a living, dynamic multifunctional mountain, sustainable and profitable for forest owners and for the Galician assembly. And with that conviction, with those risks, with that conviction and with those objectives, we decidedly involve ourselves in the task of contributing, listening, dialogue and agreeing, consensus as an internal-external symbol of strength. [[Applause]] We wanted to be more ambitious in the study committee, but we sacrificed that ambition for consensus. And we have already wanted to make our commitment visible since the first opportunity we had to appoint the two Members who corresponded to us in the Commission. One of them, with the utmost presence, with the commitment and relevance which means, the voice of the parliamentary group, Mr Fernández Leicega. I have made and make references to the Commission, because many of our proposals are collected in the form of resolutions. I must acknowledge and acknowledge that some of our proposals are the result of the Commission's plural contribution to the audience. Also from the representatives of the sector who attended the meetings organized on this subject by the Socialist Group. We're also aware that the other groups also had similar days. And also other proposals for crops belonging to the parliamentary group. We saw what the technicians told us, what the university professionals told us, what the sectoral representatives told us, what the ecological groups told us, what all those who went to these days or went to the Commission told us. With the richness of these diverse visions of all these agents, we set up a single proposal, with 100 individual proposals that meet the contribution from our point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a part of the statement that we do not fully share, but it seems to us as a whole that makes it possible to change this magnitude to forest policy which is worth taking risks. [[Applause]] And changing forest policy begins well with two recognitions: firstly, there is an in-depth rectification of the policy of these years, a policy of leaving where there were rules that did not apply, and secondly, government policies are valued, between 2005 and 2009, chaired by Mr. Pérez Touriño and being advisor to Mr. Suárez Canal. Most of the hundred and twenty-three recommendations represent a recovery of government policies by Emilio Pérez Touriño and the councillor of Alfredo Suárez Canal. Let me put into practice the parallelism that I manifested at the beginning of my intervention. I have already shown that superficial similarities only end in the statement, but the important thing, the comparable in terms of similarity or discrepancy is the content, the background. And that is why I am going to report on the Socialist Group's proposals to determine this position, only a few, related to forestry policy: to carry out — one of the proposals — an integral planning of rural land use, rural land use; to develop the plans for reorganisation of forest resources; to promote the management of the Greek mountains; to actively promote forest certification by the Greek Forest Administration; to address forest management, it sets limits on the proportion of eucalyptus in the set of new plantations in forest management plans, so as to ensure the existence of multi-specific masses — these limitations make it possible to present areas of the territory that hinder the excessive expansion of the eucalyptus; to encourage new formulas for the joint management of the mountain; to regulate the figure of the active forestry. Ladies and gentlemen, the time limit only allows me to give a brush on our proposals. He only allowed me to report some of the more than a hundred proposals we've made. Resolutions relating to the promotion of the use of forest products, biomass management fringes, the role of neighbouring communities in the mountains in the same way, the fire prevention and extinction device, emergency and civil protection services, the structure of property, the protection of the natural environment, climate change, training, education, awareness and sensitivity of civil society, with fiscal and financial incentives for the improvement of rural areas, etc. And finished as I started: the background, the content marks the differences. And we believe that our substance, our proposals very fully cover the actions that must be carried out in rural areas, and we do not see that same fund in the ILP that we are discussing. The Socialist Group has a high regard for popular legislative initiatives, so we can't support them, but we won't stop them from continuing their processing. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u65	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Fernández. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u66	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, guests and guests and, like not?, promoters and promoters of this bill, very good day to all and to all. Today, from En Marea, we share the fundamental concern reflected by the promoters in this bill. After seeing in this first review what the new Galician forest plan will be, we see that omissions and deficiencies are detected in relation to eucalyptus policy, that ruin the creation of this multi-productive mountain figure and that other forest development opportunities are being overcome linked to the incentive of indigenous cadifoli masses or other traditional and environmentally respectful uses. Mrs. Rodríguez said very well that the text of the previous Forest Plan does not mention that in recent decades there has been a great expansion of the eucalyptus in our country. We are the region with the largest area of eucalyptus throughout the Peninsula. In the first forest inventory the eucalyptus was present in a total of more than one hundred and thirty thousand hectares. In the third forest plan we turned the three hundred ninety-six thousand, corresponding to twenty-eight percent of the wooded area of Galicia. More than 44,000 acres in 2002. And today we're already in chaos, and we're above 5,000 hectares. In the text of what will be the new Greek forest plan, no mention is made of eucalyptus plantations in Galicia, no mention is made of more than half of those existing in the state, fifty-two percent. And only by species on the Iberian peninsula is located fifty-three percent of the world's surface of white eucalyptus — the globulus — more than anywhere in Australia, where it's original. In recent times there has come a new threat, a new kind of eucalyptus, the nitens, capable of adapting to lands where the Eucalyptus globulus is not given, given its greatest resistance to the cold. But it turns out that this eucalyptus is an exotic and invasive species, and so says a judgment from the First Section of the National Hearing-Contentious-Administrative Chamber; even the Eucalyptus globulus is considered invasive in the Atlas of Invasive Alloctones of Spain, published in 2004 by the General Directorate for Biodiversity. On the text of the review of the Forest Plan, Mr González, there is no mention of the relationship between the unstoppable increase in eucalyptus and at the same time the loss of useful agrarian surface. If Junta doesn't believe in a production model, not a forest model, but in the country model, where will all our cultivable land go? For Ence and for companies. But this Union doesn't just care, it celebrates that it is. If not, you don't understand that you don't comply with your own laws, the laws you passed, the laws you promoted in this parliament: the Law of Mountain Communities, the Law of Forest Fires, the Law of Mountains of 2012. However, in the revision of this plan, the protection of the indigenous masses is not provided. The current councillor swore and perjured in this parliament, when he was a spokesperson for the Middle Rural, that while he was here he would not plant a hectare more of eucalyptus. Now they present a draft showing us about eight percent increase in the surface of eucalyptus and about twenty-six percent increase in mixed masses: pine and eucalyptus. It is materially impossible to catch a bandage of such dimensions in such a short time. Of course, then we're sold that in the expirative masses, the chestnut tree is going to increase by 50 percent. Man!, eight percent of over five hundred thousand acres is much more than 50 percent of fifty thousand acres. I don't know who you want to fool. In the context of the review of the Forest Plan there is no real intention of creating another type of mountain or other activity other than the Once. If you want to be brave, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with the revision of this forest plan and collecting the support of the Greek society, you have it very easy. How? Very simple: they have to support the consideration of this bill. The Government up until now could have done much, could comply with the current legislation, it could not; it could ban plantations in repo with species of Eucalyptus genre in the spaces belonging to the Greek Network of Protected Spaces — those that have Eucalyptus must start it, and it must be fined who put them there, there remains no other—; the immediate elimination of adventurous eucalyptuses or wildlings out of plantations, which are a real danger, a dust; the formal catalog of Eucalyptus nites as an exotic and invasive species; and it is also urgent to adopt measures to protect our native forests with alternatives to eucalyptus. If they don't, we'll continue to suffer the degradation of our soil, the pollution of our rivers, the abandonment of our rural areas and the forest fires. Then we'll do a fire commission like the one we just got out of, and after seeing a diagnosis of this dictation, which, in Marea, we said so, well reflects what the appearances and the appearances — those who were not vetted — made manifest in this commission. But we don't understand from En Marea how the People's Party was unable to draft a saying that had been resolved, that was brave and that it had been up to what this country deserves. So from En Marea, we have made amendments to a large part of the recommendations, in the sense of the proposal presented by the drafting group here today. Some of these are that no more trees will be allowed with the genus Eucalyptus; to recover — as the fellow of the Galego Nationalist Block said — the forest management units as a figure for the joint management of the mountain; a package of fiscal measures that encourage joint management, whatever their legal formula, whenever none of the partners exceeds that 50%; which does not see in the plan the use of energy crops for biomass production. We call for the empowerment of communities of neighboring mountains in common, a rehabilitation plan against the dynamics of the abandonment to which they are subjected by the Government of the Union. We call for the recognition of these mountains as a separate Community neighbouring title and on an equal footing with the public and the private. During the Commission it was clear that there was an atomization and privatization of the public fire service against forest fires, something which is not reflected in the drafted dictatorship, since it is not mentioned, first, of the private companies that are cutting off from forest fires and are even operating on helio-transported bases owned by the Galician Union, or, second, by the municipal brigades, many of them privatized by the lack of technical and economic management of the municipalities. Nor was there any mention of the UME or operation Centinela, which, by the way, besides carrying funds from the Galician Union to put out those fires, refused to appear in this parliament. But one thing is clear: this is not the result of chance, this is due to some policies that are being introduced from the People's Party, which is to work for capital, for the interests of the outside and for the big companies that deprecate everything they take forward; let's call it, for example, Ence. How did they get it? With the eucalyptus. They worked for companies and poured our middle into a degradation process that turned rural Galician today into a desert of agricultural activity, in favor of a forest monoculture based on eucalyptus and pine. Where is this multifunctionality of our mountains, from which the PP boasts, and the PP says it is reflected in this review? Where is the real transformation industry? Where was that added value that's generating income that settles population in our rural environment? They're not. And their policies have had the opposite effect: deserting not only our environment, but Galicia social and economic. Where does this lead us? By spending hundreds of millions of euros on putting out forest fires or trying to fix the damage caused by them, which are nothing more than a consequence of their model, the model of the current Montes CEO, Mr. Couto's model. There are numerous voices and mobilisations of denunciation of what is happening. And these realize that, in reality, the Greek society does not want a lot that spoils its cultural, environmental and economic heritage for the benefit of a few companies, which are little closer to the well-being of our country. The final goal of the People's Party with this plan is to deliver a huge mountain surface, now governed by the communal neighbourhood, to these companies. But, well, we have the continued and self-organized work of entities that manage to defend what is the reality of the Greek mountain from a perspective of their own, critical to our present, and from a positive perspective. You promoters of this initiative brought this camera a lot of fresh air in front of the suffocating policies of the Galician Union in which our mountains are reached. You were able to open up to the whole of Galician society something the German Government wanted to hide. You were able to propose a shift towards an improvement in the economy and in the natural environment of the Greeks, and in the social welfare of the people and of those we live in. To thank the Adega, the Defence and Ría Association, the Galaga Association for Apiculture, the CIG, Soporcel, Fruga, Organization for Neighboring Mountains, Ovica, masters of Polytechnics, Rivers with Life, Verdegaia, Amarelante — a cooperative society of which part and I feel tremendously proud that I have also come to promote this initiative — and to the tens of entities that promoted this manifesto. If the work you brought here today passes or does not pass this procedure, I think it didn't fall into a broken bag. Only in this way will we be able to plan a living mountain and rural, in view of the speculative interests and squilms of our territory and our future. Count on our support. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u67	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u68	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Mrs. Virginia Rodríguez Álvarez. Today we are debating a popular legislative initiative, presented by Adega, the Galician Ecology Association, which is defined as an ecological, democratic and independent initiative. First of all, we want to acknowledge the work and the interest of the proponents in wanting to provide solutions and ideas, and we appreciate the opportunity this ILP gives us to continue to debate on an area of as topical as forestry policies. And we, of course, are delighted, because we have the pride of our German countryside. The text was presented on October 19, 2017, two days after the arrival of the Middle Rural Counsellor — by that time Ánxeles Vázquez — to account for the terrible wave of fires that Galicia suffered at the end of the week from October 14 to 16. But the truth is that since that much has changed and happened, so at this moment this text, this bill, at many of its points in the articulated, would be overcome by events. On November 7, twenty-five days after the fire strike, President Feijóo appeared at the Plenary, where I proposed thirty measures in the prevention, management and dynamization issue; twenty-two of them are already completed, six in a fairly advanced process and two pending long-term development. On 14 November the Special Committee for the Study of Forest Policy was established. And after eight months of work it ended in July, with the approval of the dictatorship, with one hundred twenty-three recommendations to achieve a multifunctional, living, dynamic, sustainable and profitable mountain. And, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rodríguez Álvarez, I do not say that this award is the oracle of forest policy, but rather a very valuable and important document, both for the vast information it contains as well as for its own recommendations and proposals for the future it makes. That is why, as Mr Fernández said, of the Socialist Group, it is appropriate not to ignore it, because it can fall into the mistake, especially some political groups, which, after voting against and ignoring those recommendations, bring forward proposals which we have already discussed and were approved, showing a negationism to which we have been accustomed, denying reality, having an uncomfortable truth or having been left out of that great country agreement between the Socialist Group and the People's Parliamentary Group, which means the three quarters of the parliamentary arch. From our point of view, in addition to some of the issues that would already be raised in the dictatorship, the intention of this bill for us is clear: to walk towards the eradication and prohibition of the eucalyptus in Galicia, which was also treated here as a country problem. On the contrary, we believe that the solution to the problems of the Greek mountain does not go through indiscriminate prohibitions. So if what you're trying to do is to pose a false dichotomy between those who are against the eucalyptus and those who are in favor, they won't find us there. We are in favour of accepting Galicia's reality and singularity, and working to regulate and order the Galician mountain, maintaining the necessary balance and compatibility between the different forest species and all agricultural activity. Mrs. Rodríguez, ladies and gentlemen, today I will reveal to you a novelty: I will not answer the arguments of the People's Party, which will surely be waiting, no; it is more: I will copy Mr. Fernández, of the Socialist Party. I'm going to do it with the dictates of the study committee, approved in this chamber after listening to more than sixty people from all areas of society and receiving dozens of reports. I remember that it was adopted by fifty-five Members of the seventy-five. Mr. Rivas, you say -- and then you find it wrong when you take the phrases you quote -- "It's time for someone to legislate at once." But really, how can you say this after what we've been working this past year in this parliament? What does he say about the eucalyptus? Of course, it refers to the two positions totally confronted in the Greek society itself: among those who mark the eucalyptus as a species facilitating the expansion of fires, pyrophytes, invasive and destructive, and those who defend its existence. In this regard, Professor Juan Pico pointed out that there would be a need for the concept of "pirophyto", which is the ability of a plant to adapt and survive after the fire. And he added that the slaughterhouse has greater potential for the spread of the fire than the tree species, and that it has more impact on the propagation of the amount of biomass under the trees than the species itself. The Professor of Forestry of the USC, Mr. Rodríguez Soaleiro, pointed out in the report of the Technical Commission created in Portugal following the fires in Pedrogon, which is much more important forest management than tree species. In that same line, the Emeritus Professor of Edaphology of the USC, Francisco Díaz-Fierros Viqueira, also published in this regard: "On the incendiary character of the eucalyptus I will use as the only source the narrative that was presented in an independent international commission on the fires of last year in Portugal. In it, without denying the ease of spread of fire in the disordered plantations of pine and eucalyptus, where the accent was really placed in the control of the slaughterhouse, and can be found in cases where a carball with sufficient slaughter was more pyrophilic than a eucalyptal clean of slaughter." [[Murmurs.]] Regarding the damage caused by forest fires during the period 2000-2013, the incidence on eucalyptus was 7.8 percent, which contrasts with 18 percent of the occupation of eucalyptus, as was said here. In addition to the nineteen forest districts of Galicia, the two districts that less fires and burnt areas record are those that accumulate about 50 percent of Eucalyptus wood stocks. Another relevant fact is that many of the large forest fires that occur in Galicia, mainly, were in the province of Ourense, where the eucalyptus plantations are very scarce. In the period 2006-2016, as in the 2017 strike, the highest percentages correspond to the slaughterhouse surfaces, with 43.49% and 47.49%, respectively. I want you to see the distribution maps of the eucalyptus in Galicia. Here's where it can be extended. And here are the points where the fire strike went. [[Mr. Blanco Paradello shows the House a leaflet on a map of Galicia.]] How can we check... [[Mr. White Paradelo shows the House another leaflet with a map.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u69	Mr. Rodríguez, please be quiet. [[Mr. Rodríguez Estévez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Rodríguez, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u70	...these two plans show that there is for nothing that correlation that they want us to believe between the eucalyptus and the fires. In line with the Commission's recommendations, I was saying some voice that the legislation was permissive. I want to remember what this one says: "Keep the elimination of all aids to the afforestation or reforestation of all species of eucalyptus. Maintain the prohibition of eucalyptus planting on agrarian lands or on previously populated mountains with traditional leafy areas, in the tracks close to the streams of water and population nuclei, in the areas of Natura Network and other protected spaces. To incorporate the prohibition of planting eucalyptus into previous pine plantations into legislation. Ban new plantations on public utility and public management mountains. Set limits on the proportion of eucalyptuses in the set of new plantations in forest district management plans." You also talk and pick up the controversy about the declaration of the invasive species. He forgot to say that there was a report from the Deputy General Directorate for Forestry Policy that contradicted the previous report. In no case can it be considered — at least at present — an invasive species, since neither stems from onions or roots after their cutting, nor their seeds are characterized by a high capacity for germination or dispersion at long distances. The Forest Plan, which was adopted in 1992 with the consensus of the sector, has failed in its estimates. But it was this: estimates — which in this case cannot be taken as an executive rule — to say what should be planted. This is why it was agreed in the Commission itself to put in place a forest statistical information system, which must also be done before 30 June 2019. And he also says that, after the review of the Galician Forest Plan, we need to develop forest resources management plans in the different Greek forest districts, within an integral management of rural areas. The review of the plan came to this commission, Mr. Rodríguez, and will be back before your approval. What are the reasons for the increase in eucalyptus, that we don't hide? Basically, demand, which was much higher than initially expected, and on the other hand, high profitability, very attractive to the owners, which generate important incomes for many families: one thousand eight hundred companies linked to this species and five thousand five hundred jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u71	According to the Confedera's report, in 2015, the volume of cuts in the Galician mountain amounted to 8.25 million cubic metres, which assumed revenues of about 300 million euros. Of these cuts, more than 50 percent correspond to the eucalyptus, i.e., more than one hundred and fifty million euros, which made 80 thousand Greek families earn income. Are these eighty thousand large business families or large landowners? Are you willing to give up this? We must insist and remember that for twenty years now the Council of Galicia has not subsidized any of these plantations, as well as that the limitations are covered by the Mountain Law. But besides, I mean, there's no kind of complexity or decoupling here on the part of the Galician Union. Sanctioning cases concerning eucalyptus planting have been initiated. And since 2012 a total of 1,649 notifications have been made, with fines ranging from 100 euros to 7 thousand euros. And referring to biomass as an energy source, also in the diet it is collected that the use of forest biomass is competitive, with low carbon emissions. The Commission considers it necessary, as a pre-exploitation step, to develop a strategic programme for the promotion of forest biomass, which will not include energy crops, as a model of eco-efficient, economic and social efficiency for the mountain and the resources of Galicia. But it was also appropriate for them to clarify: nuclear, no; thermal, no talking; wind, no biomass, no talking. They also had to clarify it a little bit. The Uxfors, they're back in charge with the Uxfors. In Mrs. García Hermida's appearance on her own commission, she commented on the difficulties of implantation that these management units had, implying that the greatest resistance on the part of the owners was caused by the necessary presence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u73	...of a public official in his composition. Uxfor is not considered a suitable figure for forest owner groupings. They had to paralyze, Mr. Rivas, the work that had begun at the time of the Bipartite... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u74	...because they were being carried out in situations of manifest illegality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u75	...associations of unconstitutional owners...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u76	Quiet, Mr. Rivas, please. Neither of you was interrupted. Neither. So be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u77	Thank you, President. They had to paralyze because — I insist — they were in a situation of manifest illegality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u78	It's okay. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u79	...owners' associations, therefore, without legal personality, and without the permission of the owners for the disposition of the land. It's over, Mr. President. I want to tell you that we also note that we have to regulate this new figure for the association of neighboring mountains. And we want a lease regulation to be introduced to guarantee its profitable exploitation, as well as the investment to put into production the mountains that are in a state of abandonment. Before we finish, I again thank the presentation of this initiative and we want to acknowledge the work. I also remind you of the thirty measures taken by the President, the one hundred and twenty-three measures taken by the Commission. And, of course, from the People's Parliamentary Group to our tender hand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u81	...to join this great agreement reached with the Socialist Parliamentary Group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u82	Thank you, Mr. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u83	...and the People's Group. And, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u84	Thank you, Mr. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u85	...that we can work together for having a lot of attention and functionality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u86	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u87	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u88	Thank you. Replica from the person appointed by the commission promoter, Ms. Virginia Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u89	Well, the first one -- though it's a minute loss -- I'm a teacher, and the truth is, sometimes I hear it here, it seems to me to be boisterous. I'm a teacher and I'm always telling students and students: we have to listen to those who have the word, we have to be respectful. And I — which is the first time I come here — am surprised by your behavior. I think that's what we'd have to fix. I'm talking, I'm on my word. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I also tell my students that when I'm in the word, I speak; in the same way, when they talk, they talk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u90	What a favor you just did to me! What a favor!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u91	Nothing else. I'd rather lose a minute. I don't think I can answer to everyone, but obviously I do thank the En Marea parliamentary groups and the Bloc for their support because almost their appearances are based on the essence of this ILP. On the other hand, I would ask the PSOE Parliamentary Group to recapitate, because I understand that they will abstain, I am not clear. And to say that approving this ILP doesn't mean approving everything that's said in the ILP. I would be able to agree and agree — since the new approved forest plan is not there — a new forest plan that had taken account of many of the recommendations and many of the articulates that we propose here in our bill. So it could be a synthesis document between that review of the new forest plan, which we obviously did not support, and we made allegations. And so I'd ask them to resume their vote. Obviously, I cannot agree with that statement by the People's Party Parliamentary Group. I've been to Pedrogon, we've been there, and that really... the forest planning that was done was bad. They were eucalyptals, miles and kilometers of eucalyptals, and there was no slaughter in the burned areas. Only certain areas have been saved where the native forest served as green strips of protection, of which it is also mentioned in the Forest Plan. On the other hand, this ILP goes a lot further, it's not empty, it's not exceeded. On the contrary: it has more strength than ever seeing what the review of the forest plan was like, which was claimed, and if it gave me time, it would indicate the conditions that we understand are not met. And, in fact, part of the ILP's advocacy group we also argue with other entities, in this case, such as the Labrego Union, which also joined. On the other hand, the eucalyptus doesn't seem to burn. Let's see: if you introduce me to a map where we're comparing Atlantic Galicia to the interior... obviously, we can't take into account the weather conditions of the Navy are reflected in the weather conditions of the Central Orensan Macizo. On the edge of the typology of fires that can be given, we can't make unnecessary use of data. The Ministry's Scientific Committee says he's an invader, he doesn't say what you said. Of course there's a second reading later, and you know who made that second report. High profitability, for whom is the lossful profit, and the expenses of fighting the fires that we are paying them? The eucalyptus does not live, survives; there are other possibilities of living in the countryside. [[Applause]] And if I had given myself time — which I do not know — I would have made all the allegations made to the Forest Plan, which was quoted by several of the parliamentarians, because we understand that it is totally contrary to this ILP: We do have a desire to consent. We do believe that the possibility of this popular legislative initiative being brought forward would allow us to agree with the new Forest Plan measures that we understand are strategic for our country. The review of the Forest Plan has made a false diagnosis of the current situation of the Greek forest surface. Resumed data from 2009. Hasn't our country changed since 2009? It's 2018, it's almost nine years. There is a lack of representativeness of social agents in the evaluation of the proposed review. There was a committee of wise men, indeed, but where was the ecological movement?, or even: where were the agricultural unions? There is a lack of instruments to control and monitor forest compliance. There are not, they were planned in the 1992 Forest Plan, and it's not yet done in this new plan; it's not quoted. There's a lack of rigour in the language, because it's an autochthonous forest, and American oak is cited. Please! And it only favours the wood industry and low value added, forest biomass and energy crops. Promotes the use of forest biomass for energy purposes exclusively. We follow: it continues to favour the monoculture of eucalyptus and not to establish exclusion zones. That's quoted in the current forest plan. We're exceeding 50 percent the 1992 forecasts, and there's still talk about increasing the production of eucalyptus! Where, in the land? in the pastures? Because he doesn't recognize the pastries either. Pasteurs have their function. What about the mountain? We understand that the plan shouldn't be a forest plan, it would have to be a mountain plan, where the pastry and the slaughterhouse perform their function, both ecological and productive. It disregards the conservation of ecological diversity and supports forest diversity. It's about consolidated masses, those that have to be more than fifteen hectares in round corners. It's that even the protected areas of high ecological value sometimes perform these functions, there's no more than fifteen hectares of surface in round corners. The expression "active management of the river forest" is particularly worrying. What does that imply, that we will also be able to forest the river forest? There is no progress in controlling invasive exotic species in your forest plan. It only provides incentives and favourable tax measures for the wood and energy industry, not for the ecosystem value of the German mountain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u92	You've got to go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u93	Okay. It promotes a continuous and failed model for the prevention and defense against forest fires, favoring (...) of the fire. [[Intelligible.]] It does not envisage the creation of a public and German forest certification seal. It favours aggressive policies with the neighboring mountains in common — and would ask here that in the transitional provision it be possible to fincapé in which the mon Communards do not lose their title because they have abandoned lands; we would have to understand what abandoned lands are. It excludes the common culture of the formation of society in forest culture. It only allows formulae of forest association in which private capital is involved — here we have already spoken, the Sofor in front of the Uxfor. And education and research — I'm an educator, I'm a high school teacher — about the mountains are limited to the forestry field. We can do much more than talk about the benefits of the eucalyptus.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u95	I don't want to extend much more. I appreciate the opportunity to defend this popular legislative initiative and nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Álvarez. Vote of the bill of popular legislative initiative
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u97	We'll let the lady propose to the gallery before she votes. [[Pause.]] Now yes, we're going to vote. Close the doors, please. Vote of the bill, of popular initiative, for the protection and improvement of indigenous forest habitats, the rationalization of mountain management and the fight against forest fires. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 37; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal for a popular legislative initiative law is therefore not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u98	The vote was closed. Open the doors, please. We continue with the third point on the agenda, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made to the Central Government on housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u99	Two amendments were tabled, one from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the other from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u100	To formulate the motion, Mr. Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u101	Good morning to all of you. In the debate on the question of housing, he set a concrete example of what housing policy has been carried out in recent years — I would say decades — and the example of what the current situation is for many people. He put this example of a situation of a woman with two dependent children in Vigo — a woman with dependent children, one of the most vulnerable groups at present — a woman who was at risk and who could be defeated by an empty fund — an empty fund that surely invested in housing with tax subsidies and tax advantages granted to her by government reforms in the Spanish state. This is an example of the absence of a truly significant public rental park, not even as a housing alternative for these cases — let us not mention that they serve as a price regulator. Because this woman, as a solution to a defect, with two children, if she was offered a home in Vila de Cruces, 131 kilometers from the place where she lives — in Vigo — is like saying that the Galician Union has no solutions for these people and for many more people who are suffering from this drama in Vigo. So these are examples of policies that abandon people. You can already, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, try to play "you more" when they come to talk here, try to slip the bulk and not acknowledge their responsibilities. But the reality that repeats a lot is that the lack of a genuine and significant public park of housing with social rents causes these situations. The lack of a public housing rental park means, in addition, not to have a fundamental element for price regulation in a market where it doesn't stop growing. We are immersed in a blob of rental — which is visible above all in the cities — which makes price growth, combined with the precarious work of many people, supposes a spectacular increase in defeats due to the default of renters. Over the past five years, the percentage of young people who access housing by rent has grown by more than 30 percentage points. And that is, above all, because they are excluded from the possibility of opting for a mortgage, and -- not only but also -- that the real estate bubble crisis has served as a lesson for many people; but, above all, because they cannot have a mortgage. In the face of this situation, with the increase in the demand for rent and without public housing measures that guarantee price regulation, what is happening is a spectacular rise — especially in cities — of rent prices; a spectacular rise, of course, that is not correlated with the rise in wages of many people. So it's a situation that has no solution to the sight. A powerful public housing park would serve as a regulatory element, for the same thing that should serve the official shelter and the soil reserve to increase the public heritage. We believe, moreover, that this lack of housing policies is not casual. Like almost everything in politics, you have to choose, and here there are conflicting interests as well. There's a lot of interest in speculation in the housing market, which doesn't see with good eyes measures that lower housing prices. For example, if Sareb's housing — that bad bank that we rescued with public money, with billions of euros — were not used to serve the people who needed it, in the years when they were defeated by half five people a day in Galicia, it was by the influence of the same banks that pressured themselves not to release that housing, because it would mean a fall in the price of housing. That's why sometimes we have to choose. And in this case you have to choose between business and speculation or people's rights. We believe that, once and for all, we have to make a 180-degree turn, we have to have powerful public housing policies, starting with budgets. In the 2010 budgets — not in 2009, but in 2010 — the size of the housing function was 0.37% of Galicia's GDP. In 2019, which you sell as an increase, will be 0.13 % of GDP, three times less weight than GDP. And here's no excuse for the crisis. Here's no excuse for the crisis because we're talking about the wealth this country has. And this says a lot about what you aspire to do in housing policy, which is to reduce the weight of housing budgets, which is what they have constantly done: ridiculous budgets when later if you want to make us see or believe that there is a real public housing policy — that does not exist — that defends constitutional right to a decent housing. But we know that the Constitution is only good, and that it is good for the oligarchies and the interests of banks, empty funds and builders. We therefore want and in our motion we propose that housing policies be devoted to 0.5% of Galicia's GDP, far away from the 2% they spend in many European countries. Then we followed the execution of those budgets, which were systematically those of the lowest degree of execution of the budgets of the Galician Union. Without going further, in 2017, when the challenge in Galicia again increased, in the housing access program, which should ensure that there were no evictions, they left without executing 3 out of the 5 million euros budgeted; that is, a 40% degree of execution. In 2016 15% of the housing rehabilitation program was executed; for example, 3.2% of the empty housing program was executed. We want to increase the public housing park, and for that we also propose the amendment of the Land Law 2/2016, so that exceptions in the soil reserve are eliminated for some kind of protection, so that the reserve of this type of soil is at least 30%. That change that the People's Party made nothing more come to the Government except, for those municipalities that wanted it, this reservation was one of the key issues that made Galicia stand in the queue truck of the construction of official protection housing. If 2,900 houses of official protection were started in Galicia in 2010, then in 2015 there were 5 and in 2016 there were 4 of them. These figures I think they speak for themselves. We also believe that another more agile and fairer housing adjudication system needs to be established, adjusting the objective criteria of need and modifying, with those objectives, the decrees that now regulate it. We also want you to count on those homes that have been rescued, that have been paid with the money of all of them, to use those that are suitable for the public housing park. We want them to move on to form the public housing park because they've been rescued with money from all of them and they have to benefit those who are interested and not at the expense of the interests of the banks. We also want — and we have this motion — measures for the Government of the State. We want, once and for all, to comply with the Law of local estates and to regulate the concept of empty housing so that the municipalities they want can recharge the empty housing of the great owners in the IBI. Today, for failing to comply with the law — I have read that the People's Party has been blocked for all these years — the municipalities cannot make policies to promote empty housing mobilization. This measure is much more useful than its empty housing program for housing mobilization. As long as it remains the same as having an empty dwelling as an occupied dwelling, speculators will keep their dwellings empty whenever appropriate. And we also want to ask the Spanish Government to amend the Law on Urban Rentals, which you have reformed but with a retroactive reform that took away stability from tenants by reducing the minimum duration of contracts from five to three years. We want to give them stability, because this reform that you have made of the law of urban leases is also responsible for the bubble of the rent we're living. We also want the census of empty dwellings to extend to all municipalities regardless of their population and that there is a mandatory intervention by the Galego de Vivenda and Solo Institute in the mobilization of the said housing park. And we'd have to reform that program, too, because it's a real failure. Beyond the excuses they can make, it didn't work. Some changes have been made but continue to work and must therefore be reconsidered because it did not work. And we also need to develop a new program for the prevention of effective defiance. There's a problem, a very serious problem: there are people who either are unemployed, who take a risk, or have precarious jobs with wages that they don't give them to live, and the rent prices continue to grow, and that leads to the exclusion of many people from the right to a decent housing. You can say here what you want, you can deny this reality, but it's a reality that needs measurements. The measures taken so far have only made the problem worse and, therefore, a 180-degree turn has to be made. That's what we intend with this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u102	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u103	Thank you, President. The debate comes to this plenary again the dramatic reality of the dwelling in Galicia, and we regret that the branch advisor, the advisor of Vivenda, had not had half an hour in his schedule to attend this debate. She must be very busy receiving mayors from the People's Party, as we see every day in the press, to share funds from Plan Hurbe. That must be the reason for her absence. [[Applause]] The dramatic reality of housing has worsened in the last decade as a result of political and economic decisions taken in response to that so-called crisis, this rightist, ultraliberal policy, which led to a looting, a real looting of public accounts to save banks and at the same time looting of the incomes of the working classes to pay the bill. And in this robbery the vultures are making their feast. The main properties of Galicia are called Blackstone and are based on the Cayman Islands. And we also saw another vicious circle, which is that of the dominant position on the market of these large investment funds and also of the large housing tenors of the bank, which they lead to is speculation, rising prices and also increasing the bubble of rental. At the same time, this invisible and hidden drama of defiance continues to worsen, which, beyond specific cases, tells us about nearly 2,500 families and people who lost their homes in 2017 in Galicia, with a 5% increase over 2016. Defeats executed by banks anointed with billions of public funds, protected banks, in addition, by infamous judgments of a justice serving their political and financial masters. And, in case it wasn't clear how the judiciary works, Mr. Cosidó, the former chief general of the police and spokesperson of the People's Party at the Senate, has explained it precisely with his famous watchapp. We therefore see the failure of public housing policies, which we can say are essentially non-existent in the case of the Union. The proof of failure is that even the housing skills for Infrastructure were removed from the disaster that was being this policy, and because they are also partial measures, they are patches, they are temporary measures, they are late, they are late, to the gallery. And there is no real public housing policy, which means public intervention at the price of land, in the housing market, in the public supply of housing and, above all, through the recovery of social rights, labor rights and stolen income. Look, the reality of public spending on housing in Galicia and the state is that we are on the line of Europe, just in front of Malta and Cyprus. And in addition, the Union — as it has already been said — has drastically reduced investment in housing in the last nine years and has a very low budget execution. And we also found the failure of what was going to be the board's star plan, which ended up being a star plan: the empty housing program. We have 90,000 empty houses in the cities. In Vigo 20% are owned by Sareb and the banks, and there is no government capacity to intervene, to change that situation. They created a program and blame the municipalities, but in reality those with the powers, who can do it, it's the Union and also the State. And now they come with the bluff, with the big ad, with the new mantra of rehabilitation. They say that board priority is going to be rehabilitation. They announced to us in their 2016 government program the rehabilitation of 1,500 homes with Plan Rexurbe. Do you know what the data the advisor gave us in his presence? It's 28 homes; 1,500 are engaged in their program and 28 are announced by the councillor. The People's Party model is the Betanzos model or the Tinería model in Lugo, ten years old to rehabilitate less than ten homes. The model of the People's Party is Telmo Martín, mayor of Sanxenxo, condemned by fraud to 62 families for surprises in Navia. We're still waiting for the resignation of the mayor of Sanxenxo, the People's Party, and for his resignation. The model of the People's Party is that of Socimis, these tax havens not far away but here, in the Spanish state, for real estate speculation with the exemption of corporate tax and the 95% bonus in transmission tax. The model of the People's Party is that model of partisan and caciquil distribution, in which Mrs Vázquez is expert, of distribution of public funds. And the BNG, in view of this, has proposals that we put in the amendments and that we have also defended here. We defend public intervention, we defend model change in legislation, we defend the fight against, indeed, bubbles and evictions, the mobilization of empty housing, the construction of public housing and, above all, the true social and housing policy that is the recovery of income, the recovery of the rights of the working class and the reality that the right-wing policies are going in the opposite direction: they generate more precariousness, more inequality, more exclusion, more speculation and more business for the predators of those votre investment funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u104	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u105	Thank you, President. On the part of the Socialist Party, we express our support, even though with the nuances we have already presented in our amendment to the proposal that is presented today. It's practically the same one that was introduced in the debate of the state of Autonomy and that at the moment we are approaching a modification transaction with the En Marea group. And we expect it to be accepted again. It's true that two new points are entered. One refers to the increase in the budget allocation to be fixed at 0.5 % of GDP. We believe that this kind of request comes into the field of wishes and that, if you wish, why not? We understand that it would be better to talk about budgeting enough to develop housing policy, as you certainly do at the first point of the initiative, in which they demand a substantial increase and sufficient generation of the rental public park. I would like to remind you here that in the resolutions of this year's debate of the state of Autonomy, an initiative which began with the Socialist Party was unanimously supported and which commits the German Government to doubling the current public housing park on the five-year horizon. I think the challenge that government assumes is important, especially if we remember that last year only nine public promotion homes have been qualified. But if the Government committed itself to this resolution this October 9, only ten days later it presented a budget project in which surprisingly the public housing target for 2019 is set, according to the corresponding departure, in three dwellings. Yes, they heard well, in three dwellings! —and will allow me to play — but it is surprising to see how in the budget it is explained, in addition, that these three dwellings will be built among the four provinces of Greece. It's a frankly interesting challenge. [[Applause]] The truth is that not even the planned money would cover more than 16% of the total of the 600 annual dwellings that would be needed to conquer the current public housing park in those five years. It is therefore more evidence than the good intentions of this Government are only advertising and propaganda. I think it is a good example of today's Ministry of Development announcement to promote 5,000 housing for social rent, starting with the cities where there is a greater urgency, the first 5,000 housing for the 20,000 engaged. If you really want to comply with this government with the Galicians and the Greeks, you're financially supportive of housing policies. With that 0.5%, with more or more needed, they've won more program execution. Because it is of no use to predict the millions budgeted if, as in the past year, only 41.3% of execution is acquired. They avoid such boisterous results as those seven dwellings assisted in two years within the Empty Housing Plan: 53 municipalities attached and only seven assisted dwellings, when only among five of the participating municipalities, between Vilagarcia, Cullero, Santiago, Ames and Ourense, already add to them a demand of something more than 1,500 people. If all Galician municipalities were joined, what would be achieved?, what would be achieved?, a higher statistic? What makes you think behavior would be better than that of these five towns or cities? Is it the problem of joining more municipalities to the program or will the problem be in incentives to housing owners? Because, who makes the dwellings available?, the board or the individuals interested in offering their properties? [[Applause]] We do believe that it is necessary to conquer all these empty dwellings on the housing market and rather to allocate them to social rent, but we believe that we have to do with sufficient incentives for citizenship to allow them to decline by this option and not by others. In fact, see the example of Zaragoza, from the Zaragoza Town Hall, also two years of travelling on its plan "Rejoice your home." It has reached the transfer of 415 dwellings, precisely for social rent, and has 730 transfer files initiated by owners and owners. And why? Because they offer eight benefits or incentives that interest the citizen. And we do believe that from the state we must promote the appropriate incorporation of housing belonging to Sareb, especially in those municipalities where they exist and where there is demand for public housing. Because we understand that it is, in addition, the great owners of housing who have to provide those resources that have already been built and in state, many of them, of absolute abandonment. And for that, you have to see the plaintiff register, updated day by day, and I recommend the municipality. The data that were reflected on 3 May 2018 were 11,800 applicants, and on 15 November it was already in 12,713, something more than 900 applicants in just six months, which means a pace of five new housing applicants a day. And what is the answer to this government? The forecast, which we were talking about earlier, to qualify three new public promotion dwellings for 2019. We believe that this has only one name, which is a desire, that is to allow time to pass.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u106	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u107	It's that strategy that Mr. Rajoy thought was working for him and that he finally passed his bill. That's why we, as we have finished, still largely agreeing with the text of In tide, understanding it as a further impetus to the necessary changes of strategy in housing policies, we present an amendment to change the issues already discussed, as well as the amendment of the Law of the Land, with which we do not fully agree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u109	... and from which we request, in any case, the revision of Article 42.9 and not so much its complete elimination. For our part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u110	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Castineira Broz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mrs. Pierres, once again I have to say that you disappointed me. And it disappointed me because you know perfectly the difference between a public promotion housing and a protected private promotion housing. You know it perfectly well. And if he comes here to confuse himself, he's manipulating and making populism cheap. I didn't expect that from you, I didn't expect it. That's manipulation. [[Applause]] Look, only in Santiago is the Junta pending if the Town Hall is ever allowed to make 72 public promotion housings. Those would certainly join the public housing park. Protected private-promotion dwellings do not join the public housing park, nor the public-promotion parks that are for sale. Don't confuse us. You know that. Mr Bará's can't wait for anything. They've been ruling in Pontevedra for 20 years, and they haven't been able to adapt to the Land Law the general plan. What housing policy can you come to tell us here?Oh, my God! If they were unable!, if you only did, when they ruled, went to Cuba to take mojitos! [[Applause]] That's what they did, Mr Bará, please, let's not come here to teach! That's the reality. And, Mr. Sánchez, indeed, defeats... you speak of Mrs. de Vigo, yes. There's another one in Ferrol, with whom she's also having conversations with her to find a solution. Save didn't wake up. And Vigo's, in fact, was offered a house in Vila de Cruces, which went to see her. And also in Cambados, and they keep looking for other solutions. By the way, perhaps thanks should be given to the Vigo Town Hall, Mrs. Pierres, for you have a direct line with Mr. Lighted, Mr. Abel. Then perhaps, with Mr. Abel Caballero. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then perhaps, instead of selling the public housing he had, instead of selling them, perhaps he had to give a solution. [[Murmurs.]] Perhaps even, and if you do, in the amendment you make in the motion — which if you talk about the housing census, not the empty housing program — you incorporate a section of the empty housing program there. If this is presented in an independent initiative, you can be sure that we will support it, because it seems to me what we have always been defending. Come over there and see if you can convince Mr. Abel Caballero to see if he's convinced that he'll join this program of empty housing. Because, look, when there's a boycott to a program from all the parties that are in opposition and that are ruling in other administrations, social policies can hardly be made. And in this case it is a systematic boycott of the governments of the Tides, the BNG and the Socialist Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mr. Losada, you can defend Mrs. Pierres very well, man! Don't worry. [[Murmurs.]] But I want to tell you that I left the Town Hall a year and a half ago...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u112	Quiet, please! Excuse me a moment, please, Mr. Castineiras. Please listen to who is in the use of the word, listen to who is in the use of the word. They don't have the word, just who's here. Listen to what the rapporteur said a little ago, which must have made us all colored. Please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't you? [[Murmurs.]] Well, then we have a more serious problem. Continue, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u113	He said that in the Town Hall of Lugo he unanimously approved myself as a conciliator at that time - a year and a half I left the Town Hall - an initiative to join the Empty Housing Programme. Today they haven't joined yet. Who rules? The Socialist Party. Man, don't bother me. Don't bother me. So let's talk about property. Look, Cunta de Galicia currently has a public housing park of 3,500 homes. And it keeps growing, because it incorporates the homes that are being rehabilitated, and now there are about 200 of them that are being rehabilitated and those that are being built, or new construction. So, when he tells me about three, honestly, I don't know where he comes from. It's the same as when he talks about 9 or 14 Mr. Sánchez. They're private promotion housing! By the way, for which there is alone, both in Santiago and in Lugo, as in Ferrol, as in Pontevedra or in Coruña. For sure, if the office park is able to develop it, the gentlemen of En Marea, because they are systematically failing to meet that planning. So, see if they're able to develop it. By the way, the housing policy of En Marea is very clearly reflected in the Town Hall of the Crown. Yes, yes, you call them empty funds, and they can be vultures and I can even agree with some things assigned to them. In Coruña I think we could call them "muffled backgrounds." You know why. When one sees that the social housing policy of the entire Town Hall of Coruña is the purchase of six public-funded dwellings, of which two are friends, what do you want me to tell them? They look more like cute funds. And the policy of En Marea de Ferrol, where there is an important public housing park in that municipality since the 1940s and peak...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u114	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u115	...and that the wastes consist of carpeting the doors when the neighbors go out -- they lock the doors so they don't enter -- that's the system that has housing policy in En Marea, Mr. Sánchez. Don't confuse me. By the way, and without presuming, not least, I want to thank some of your fellows for the recognition of what is being done in the Council of Galicia and Galicia. Something will be doing well the Government of Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u117	I'm done now, Mr. President, only half a second. Something will be done right, because in an initiative, in its own explanatory statement, they recognize that the economic effort they have to make at national level in Spain is 35% of the average salary; and in Galicia, 24%, at the level of Canada and the United Kingdom. Not that we're proud, we'll keep working to improve it. But logically there are many communities that have a lot to learn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineira. Mr. Sánchez García has the floor by the group responsible for the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u119	Well, first of all, I would like to thank the support of the Socialist Party and the BNG. As for the Socialist Party and the question of why 0.50% and no more, I also ask you, Mrs. Pierres, why 20,000 public homes and not 40,000? Why was 5,000 this year and not 10,000, because there was a lot more to it? Well, our reference is that in 2009 0.47% of GDP was devoted to housing policies, and so it's a reference that we have to immediately put ourselves in that place, because what this country's wealth is at the 2009 levels. That's the only reference we've taken to it. Obviously it's not something static — with "s" —. As for the People's Party, I don't know what to answer anymore, I don't know what to answer anymore. Because, of course, when they have been ruling since 2009 continuously, when since 2009 to 2015, most of them have had the Government of the United States, the governments of the main cities — from 2011 to 2015 — and the Government of the State, in the worst years, where there have been the most evictions, when they have the living skills, when they are responsible for having a public housing park and having the primary responsibility for housing policy in this country, which you come here to talk about "muffled funds", that the fault lies with the Mares Town Councils, that the program of empty housing fails by the boycott of the Mares Town Councils, is ridiculous, Mr. Castineira! You do the ridiculous thing every time you come here. And there is a lack of respect for the citizenship that is going through situations like that of this lady, such as that of Ferrol, such as that of Santiago, such as that of Ourense and that of Lugo, like that of any place where she is going on every day in this country, and who are waiting for solutions. You, instead of going to the truth and being honest, come here scattering the ink of silence. Look, it's very simple: you've defended the banks these years over the people who were left in the street, you've made laws in favour of the vacuum funds to invest in tax subsidies, you bought the banks housing that you didn't want with money and you haven't released them to make a public housing park and you've reduced the budget devoted to housing policies by a third since they arrived, compared to the wealth of this country, Mr. Castineira. That's the reality. Why? I told you, there's a contradiction of interest. To make public housing policies it is necessary to take sides: either we take sides for the right to live or we take sides for the housing as a business. And you've always systematically taken part in the business of speculation with housing. They're specialists in boosting bubbles. The same thing that the real estate bubble did with Aznar's law, they made the lease bubble with the reform of the urban lease law and their policies. So you didn't come here to give any solution to the situation I explained to you. I mean, renters are going up cities mainly, and spectacularly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u120	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u121	I'm finishing up. And the wages of many people don't come up, do they? And there's a lot of people out there. There is 23% of the population at risk of social exclusion. For those people, it's for them to have solutions and you haven't said one -- not today, not in the last few years -- nor did you. Look, the empty housing program you said it was for the boycott. Look, 53 municipalities joined, 53. Do you know how many homes have been made available to the program? They got 16, and 7 shots. Shame on you to come up with these arguments, Mr. Castilian! It is regrettable, lamentable, your position with respect to housing!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u122	Can you position on the two amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u123	They don't care what happens to people. I accept the amendments of the PSdEG and the BNG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u124	Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo asks for the floor.]] Yes, tell me, Mrs. Vilan, why do you want to use the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u125	To ask Mr. Castineira to remove the expression "lighted", which either is a person who belongs to a sect or someone who believes with a supernatural force. In fact, supernatural results are in Vigo. I simply ask you to remove that expression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u126	Thank you very much. I didn't understand that as an insult, but I mean everything... [[Strong murmurers.]] I'm sorry, what it's about to play is me for luck or misfortune. And in this case I didn't understand it as an insult, but in relation to Christmas lights, which gave so many headlines and what we've talked about so much. It wasn't an insult, I'm sure it wasn't an insult. And I hope you take it that way. Otherwise it would be withdrawn. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no explanation of any kind, no explanation of any kind. We moved on to the next motion. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in connection with the early Greek network of attention
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u127	No amendments were tabled to this motion. To formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u128	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Illuminated, indeed, Mrs. Vilán, is to have a supernatural force, like the one that has the PSdEG in Vigo. And, of course, that hurts. That force hurts, and it'll still be more supernatural in the upcoming elections. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u129	Silence, please! that, just as we had previously asked to hear who was in the use of the word, so now too. Thank you very much, you can continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u130	I don't know if you remember, ladies, a song from the 1990s, from Loquillo, which was called The Black Man, which I won't sing. Here what has a good voice is Mr. Rivas Cruz, I would be a real mess. But that letter came to say something like, "I'm black and you ask me why." For six months, every Friday workers and CRTVG workers dress up as black. And they do so against the information manipulation of Mr. Feijóo's government, against the repression of those and those who denounce it, like Mrs. Tati Moyano and now Mr. Carlos Giménez, the journalists, do it against the privatization of the public. And we today, from the PSdEG, on the first day of mobilizations in these planned days, even though there are members of the People's Party who don't like what we want to do, we will first support their demands. Because, ladies and gentlemen, when workers and public workers, in this case of CRTVG, manifest themselves by means of media free of information manipulation, they are not only doing so to defend their professionalism, they do it throughout their citizenship. [[Applause]] Secondly, I would like to welcome the members of the Galaga de Atención Association who are accompanying us today to follow this debate. As they can't do, also through the CRTVG, we invite them from the Socialist Group to come here. This motion we are now substituting is the result of that interpellation of the previous plenary, and it aims to ensure quality public care for children with developmental disorder or at risk of suffering from it. And we do this today precisely, which is the International Day of the Rights of Children and Children. We do this to ensure that there is a network of early-warning galleys that is public, accessible and close. Thirty years after the creation of this first service in the poor, in 1987, more than thirty years, of 314 municipalities only 92 have these early care services — as this decree of the year 2013 says — but most of them have no clarity about their future. In view of the coverage map of this network, a plan for the consolidation and extension of the Greek care network is needed to ensure that the coverage of 5% of the child population in 2020 is guaranteed. This cannot be done as it has so far, unilaterally, improvisingly, without dialogue with the AGAT itself and also with the municipalities. We have to do it with the people who are in touch with this reality. And that's why in this initiative we ask you to agree at all times to the Galaga Association of Temperá Care and also to the Fegamp itself. And why? Because there is a territorial imbalance, as a result of this failure of planning; an allocation that is not balanced on the equipment itself, which has as a result that there are comarcas that have no means, others that have too much means and others with great care overload, which leads in some cases to a waiting list for the first consultation of more than fifty days, when the recommended internationally is thirty. We remember that this is a care that needs to be early. In this way, it is happening that with the same number of professionals, three — which is the minimum necessary to form a team — the region is attended by 10,000 inhabitants and 100,000 others. And let me give you an example, ladies and gentlemen: to take care of the children of Antas de Ulla, there are three professionals for four children. And to meet those of Salnès, there are three professionals for 257 children; i.e. the same number of professionals. This is a consequence that the Galician Union does not listen to the professionals, that it makes electoral decisions by creating units at random, without studying the needs of our territory, and that it destroys others because of the instability of the city council's aid, which they charge months after they have formed the teams. Our autonomous community, with 1.9 million euros — which is what is in the budget plan for 2019 — is, ladies and gentlemen, the second autonomous community, only behind the Canary Islands, which less invests in early attention. You can see it clearly on this chart. It's, moreover, the one that makes it worse, the one that has the lowest coverage rate, and the one that pays the worst the work of the professionals who accompany us today, less than 20 euros an hour. [[Mr. Blanco Rodríguez shows a document from the gallery.]] [[Applause]] More to do with less, gentlemen, it's proven impossible. And so to do as well as the other autonomous communities, you have to invest more, you have to invest a lot more. Other governments understood that this was necessary, priority, and that it was basic for the future of our country. And I'm setting an example for them, the Socialist Government of Castile-A Mancha. It has a child population very similar in number to that of our autonomous community. Galicia invested 14 euros per child and year; and Castile-A Mancha, 68, five times more, lords. In that autonomous community, they have 54 centers, compared to the 16 we have, three times more. We must extend this service and guarantee its quality. What we need is a stable system of funding, and we ask for it through an amendment that the People's Party rejected yesterday. From EUR 1.9 million to EUR 8 million — that is, four times more than is being invested — to be at the level of the rest of the country. [[Applause]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, early attention will take time for the work of the teams themselves, to guide the family, children and children, to coordinate with community services, to coordinate with schools, and with the health centres themselves as well. Because intervention time is not limited to face-to-face intervention with that child or child, it is also the time when positive changes are introduced, all positive changes, for their socialization. But it turns out that the people who work on these teams don't have enough time. They don't have enough time because they spend half their day moving roles from side to side instead of being centered and centered — in this case centered, because most of them are women — in justifying these subsidies rather than caring for these children. To reduce this bureaucracy and facilitate this complex provision, because the social part, the health... [[Murmurs.]] Mr President, it is very difficult, indeed, to speak with this background noise. What we also ask for in this initiative is an up-to-date and professional management software. Of course, two weeks ago, when we questioned the social policy advisor, we were told that he was going to start immediately. We've had to bring here an interpellation so that software that's been running for two years -- I don't know where -- without putting in place and handed over by the Galaga Association of Temperá Care if it starts. In case -- as is not the first time that happens to us that they say one thing and then they do the other -- we include it again in this motion. And also the creation of a specific administrative body that is fully devoted to the development, management, coordination and evaluation of this Early Warning Network. Today, International Day of the Rights of the Child and the Child, the Social Policy Counsellor is celebrating — they won't imagine — in Ourense. He's celebrating in Ourense. From the PSdeG -- I don't know if I'm being misunderstandings -- we don't know whether it's really because of the engagement with the children and the children or because of that mission that you've undertaken all of Mr. Feijóo's government team to save Private Vázquez. Today you have the opportunity to understand, to explain, whether the Social Policy Adviser is really there posing because it is the International Day of the Rights of Children and Children or whether there really is a commitment of the People's Party to children and children; with all but, in particular, with those who have special needs as they are dealing with on this initiative. The data is malicious and alarming. We ask them, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to show this commitment to the children and children of this country, and also to their families and professionals — with all those who accompany us today too — but especially those children who have problems in this country in the field of language, emotional or even evolutionary behavior, so that they have a network of public attention, accessible and close; and all of them live where they live, whether they live in the Coruña or in the Bollo. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u132	Good morning. First of all, I would also like to greet the representatives of the AGAT, who have contacted the parliamentary groups here in this Parliament and those who have shifted their concern about how the Early Warning Network was, and those who have demanded that we, from this rostrum and here in Parliament, present initiatives and that we should focus on what was the situation to try to change that situation. And they moved their concern about the situation. First, what we've been able to do is that early attention is not only directed at those children with physical, psychological or sensory deficits, but also at those children with mature problems or adaptation. I mean, dedicated to all those children with problems also of evolution or changes in their surroundings. The second concern we've been moved to is the budget deficit and, on the other hand, the amount of budgets left unexecuted; that is, few budgets and a part of them not executed. Another concern was that if you were trying to create a network with a channel of impossible financing — because part of this funding came through Feder funds and its justification was impossible; that is, with a series of very difficult to justify—and the absence of a computer application, despite the fact that by the AGAT itself had made it to the Board an application, which had it in the Board and which were at the expense of doing something with it. It's a lot of administrative work that takes them time to do other work. There is indeed a cost per hour, of course, more than insufficient, 19 euros per hour; when, for example, we are talking about 33 euros per hour. Or if we compare it to other parts of the state, of course, it is redishing, because we can see in Aragon that we are talking about 38.78 euros/hour, or in Catalonia, 33.47 euros. We're talking about normal prices. We're talking about specialized staff. So how can you be talking about a network of specialized professionals where you approach them by the Board is 19 euros/hour for specialized professionals, and specialists! Of course, I'm giving this data — which has already been given here — so that we can see that we're talking about something as sensitive as child and child care, and with this kind of resources in all insufficient light. And they have sent us a report which they have drawn up, which has taken the decision to transfer it here to Parliament, to the President of the Union and to the Council of Independent Temperá Care, so that, of course, we have been aware of what state the network is in, what state this attention is in. And — by simplifying it — we are talking about a scarce investor effort — as I have just said — an investment in early care of the Galician Union of 14 euros per child and child. And we're talking about that with other parts of the Spanish state it can't stand the comparison: 91 euros in Catalonia, 84 in Aragon or 74 in Navarre. We're talking about some stories, of course, that can't stand the comparison. We're talking about a small extension of the network thirty years after its creation, when in the previous plenary the advisor was here and she said she was already present in 92 municipalities. When, of course, the network said that, thirty years later, it was only in 92 municipalities. The advisor turned him around and said, "We're already in 92 municipalities! That is, of course, it seems obvious that, thirty years later, only to be present in 92 municipalities is insufficient. The uncertainty and instability of being constantly pending grants and a fully-based funding system that is not known whether they will be repeated or not, of course, will not be valid. There's a imbalance in the territory, where in some regions there are resources that are more than enough, and in others, totally insufficient. We need to rebalance that lack of computer software, as I said before.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u133	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u134	There is a lack of training for professionals and lack of normative development; a lack of development of the decree of creation, of the decree of the year 2013, which from then on makes the network at this point totally insufficient, is infreded and there is territorial imbalance. Which makes it necessary for the issue, which has already been dealt with here in the plenary and which has been dealt with in the Commission, to be dealt with again in the plenary. And, of course, we will continue to insist on such...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u136	...don't solve the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u138	Finished, President. The budgets of the Union are under parliamentary procedure. Of course, the resources that are in these budgets are insufficient. On the part of the BNG and other political forces, we tabled amendments to improve those resources. And, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u140	...if they don't take care of each other, we'll keep insisting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u142	...because it is justly so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u143	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u144	We support the Socialist Party's initiative, as is fair. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u145	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u146	Well, yesterday at the budget debate we were talking about whether we were on the marmot day. Where we are on marmot day is in the debate about early attention during this legislation, because this legislation was the paralysis of early attention development. And the Union, above all, did not invest enough in this essential resource, on top of that, earned instead of recognizing its historical delay with respect to other autonomous communities. The data are very clear: 14 euros per child and child in 2018 against communities like Castile-A Mancha — as it has been said here — with a similar childhood number, with 68 euros. It's very clear! But it's just, far from admitting this data — which is black on white — that Together even boasts the early development of attention. But what happens is it's not the day of the marmot, no, it's the Day of the Rights of the Child. And for us this is an essential service. It's an essential service not only for children with functional diversity, but for all those children who need support in their development because they have any kind of developmental disorder. It is an essential service, in addition, which must be Community and accessible because it is an integral biopsychosocial care that not only meets the specific needs of each child and child, but also meets — as has been said here — that socialization also makes family education and must be coordinated with community social services. That is why we were talking about marmot day, because we tabled a motion for a resolution in the debate on the state of the nation, voted against without debate by the People's Party. We have tabled amendments to extend the credit of budgets to ensure sufficient funding for the Early Care Network, voted against yesterday by the People's Party. We'll see what they do in the partial amendments. Because the case is that we're talking about very little investment. It was noted that in 2019 only EUR 2 million is not reached for the Community's Early Care Network, and some EUR 10 million would be needed. What's that for the board budgets? What's that? For 10 million euros, or less, 8 million euros, as requested by the PSdEG motion, is what separates us from dignity, 8 million euros! But at last, not only that. The situation is surreal, because the People's Party and the Union itself confuse the community network with the total network, which includes the specific services of hospitals and education, sinking into a model, in addition to a hospital center, but obviating the importance of the Community Network for early care. That's why, by the way of facts, he doesn't admit that he must increase the budget. Moreover, Junta is not aware of the disorganization of the system, of that excessive bureaucracy for the justification of the grant, which originates — as has already been explained here — that the professionals of this specialized service — say professional women because they are essentially women — have to devote hours of their work, or outside of it, to do extra hours — as we have seen in the poor, and to professionals using Sundays to justify the subsidy, instead of focusing all their efforts on early attention. It is also not aware of the PP of the unstable financing system which obliges municipalities to forward funds for months. The grant ends on October 31st, until April or May the next year will not be dealt with again, and this causes serious dysfunction. It's been past, by putting two examples: we saw what happened to the Temperá Care Unit in Burela, in Cuntis, the problems that the Bridge Council had... and the Board, instead of admitting that it should take up this service as central, coordinate it with the AGAP and with the Fegamp and make it present throughout the territory, what it does is to throw balloons out and put the blame on the municipalities. But there's also disorganization and decompensation of the network. It has been said here too: the Salnes, with an oversaturated service, while another is opened in Antas de Ulla for very few children and children. But it is also left the whole South of Lugo without covering; the whole South of Lugo does not have an early community service. Anyway, not to mention the minimum cost per hour worked. We're talking about a very specialized service that the Union is turning into a low cost. So you can't work. Nor can you work well without the stability of those equipment, which requires continuous work to keep up with children. That's why we are fully in agreement with all the points of the PSdEG motion; we have not amended because they essentially collect those that we have presented in Marea with the approaches that the Galician Association of Temperá Care has made to us, to which we thank you for making us aware of this reality, of the historic delay that our country has suffered on this subject. And that's why we're going to vote in favour, because we have to increase the budget, we have to develop the Network, we have to develop legally all these issues, we have to have up-to-date software. And here's tremendously that the Galaga Association of Temperá Care itself had transferred software to the Union and Indra company, and Junta wasn't able to say until a short time ago, until a few months ago, that this software is being studied to see if we reduce bureaucracy. Finally, a specific administrative body is also needed and, ultimately, it must be taken into account that this is an essential service. We are on the Day of the Rights of the Child and the Child; we are guaranteed. Eight million euros is what separates them from dignity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u147	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome also to the members of the Galaga Association of Temperá Care. Mrs. Blanco, at the beginning of your speech, we didn't know exactly whether you were going to talk about early attention, a subject that seems to be of such concern to you, but in the end he spent more than half his time talking about Galician TV workers, about the great results of the Socialist Party in Vigo City Hall — of course, you didn't speak of Ourense, and also to attack the Social Policy Council. You really showed yourself at the beginning of your intervention that he was very concerned about early attention. [[Applause]] By the way, if you qualify as an act of the Social Policy Adviser of "postureo", I, listening to your intervention, could also qualify your motion as "postureo motiono". So let's seriously talk about early attention, which we consider to be a matter for dealing with the seriousness it deserves. Look: Today, the situation of the Temperá Care Service has absolutely nothing to do with the situation that I had in 2009. Nine years ago there was no early care unit financed between the board and the municipalities. Yes, only nine hospital units worked through Sergas and two other units managed by the Galician Association of Temperá Care in the districts of Salnés and Ten. This information has already been given to her by the advisor in the past in connection with her inquiry. And we're also talking about a turning point, which is the year 2013. In that year, the Galician Union passed the decree on the creation of the early-warning Galician Network. This decree meant a change, one before and one after. Because look: apart from establishing coordination between the health system, the education system and the social services involved in the protection of minors, it establishes coordination between all resources of the Galician Union, the municipalities and the social initiative entities involved in this matter. In addition, that decree established that the municipal domain was the most appropriate and effective for early attention due to its proximity and knowledge of the situation of people. So the Galician Union, in 2016, is launching a pioneering order to help municipalities finance early care units. Between 2016 and 2017, Junta has made the municipalities 1.1 million euros available to launch six units of early attention. In 2018, the Galician Union increased its allocation of aid to the municipalities by 13 percent to finance the operation of those six units that had started the previous year and, in addition, to put in place seven new units of attention in a timely manner. And today, five years after the creation of this early-care network, there are sixteen units in Galicia that serve ninety-two municipalities, which are six times more than there was in 2009. Of course we consider that there is still much to be done in connection with early attention. What we don't think is fair is that we don't recognize the work that has been done to advance on this subject, not only from the Galician Union, but also from the municipalities and the Galician Association of Temporal Attention. Because, by his intervention, it seems that thirty-six years ago in Galicia nothing is done for the early attention. By the way, how many units of early care have you put in since the Galician Union between 2005 and 2009? Because, according to the advisor, you put zero units of early attention in motion. And since they were so worried, they might also have brought something in this direction. Look: in the 2019 budgets, the order of aid to finance these early-care units in the municipalities increases by 17 percent, and Junta allocates 1.9 million euros. With that increase what you're going to do is consolidate the sixteen early care units that are currently running and, in addition, start another five new units. We know that there is still much to be done, but we also consider that it is fair that the progress that has been made here is explained: today, more than thirteen units of attention will be early between the Board and the Town Councils, who serve ninety-two municipalities; in 2009 they were fifteen. In 2019 Galicia will have twenty-one early care units. In 2009, zero early care units will be financed between the Union and the municipalities. The software you're talking about: the advisor has already explained it to you in the previous plenary, in the coming weeks, the Network will have that computer tool that will reduce bureaucracy. And, in addition, the Autonomic Council for Temperá Care is scheduled to meet in the first quarter of 2019, and among the proposals that will be presented at that meeting by the Social Policy Council are the analysis and review of the status of the implementation of the Early Care Agenda and the implementation of the third Continuing Training Plan for the Early Care Network of the Galician Network that will take place in 2019. It is true that much remains to be done, but it is also true that much has been made in recent years; therefore, we do not support his initiative and, of course, we do not share his intervention. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Motion author group, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u150	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank BNG and En Marea for their support for this initiative. I didn't want to talk about Vilagarcia, but if you want, as you told me we couldn't talk about Ourense, who couldn't talk about here... well, I don't know if there's any more smile than being the only provincial capital in all of Spain with a mayor who was unable, during his term, to approve some budgets. I think it brings out the colors to anyone. [[Applause]] But if you want to talk about the political situation, if you want to also talk about the political situation in Vilagarcia, if I am left with Members and Members of the People's Party, without any problem. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look... and I'm not going to talk about social services, because there's total and absolute dismantling and I've told him other times. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Frivolizing is not to defend the rights of workers and workers of the CRTVG and of citizenship to have public media; to frivlize is to act like in other times, to pass black lists of workers and workers who support these claims; to frivlize is to say that the Day of the Rights of Children and Children is to be celebrated while there is a Government that does not even with those most sensitive layers within childhood, as children with special needs, is able to support this initiative, when you yourself have just said here that much remains to be done. [[Applause]] What a contradiction! Much remains to be done, and immediately afterwards he said: we will not support this motion, I do not share his intervention. So, the problem of all this, Madam, is a problem of a lack of political will, it is a problem that social services do not care about you. Look: besides, you lied; you lied because you were projected and three units were created during Mr. Tourin's government: the Ten's, the Salné's and the Order's. They've been ruling this country for thirty-one years, and they've been talking about three and a half years, four years where they've ruled the Bipartite. He hasn't found anything. They haven't discovered the Network. It's been going on for thirty years. Of the sixteen existing services, eleven have existed since before 2016. And now you come here to tell me that with a little more, with more misery... how much? With 300 thousand euros will they create five new units? What are you going to do? Do you think the budgets stretch out like gum? Do you think you can do more with less? We've already told you that it's impossible; to create those units and not cost the minimum budget of each of them would have to be one hundred and twenty-five thousand euros, which meant an increase of six hundred thousand. And yes, electoralism in the creation of units, because you will tell me: it is likely that, in the district of Salnes, the Socialist Party governs most of the population of this region and that they have three professionals to attend two hundred and fifty-seven children, and that a unit will be created in Mondoñedo, governed by the People's Party, where from October 2016 to 2017 a child, honourable lady, a child! So hairsuits and postures, the right ones. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u152	We shall vote on these motions. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the motion of the En Marea Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Anton Sánchez. The two amendments of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Parliamentary Group have been accepted. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. Mr de In Marea, on the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government on housing. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u153	We now vote on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Noela Blanco. There are no amendments. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the performances to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in connection with the early-care network. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u154	We suspended the session until four and a.m., 16.15.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u155	We resumed the session with agenda item 4, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union to combat gender-based violence against women aged 65
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u156	Parliamentary Group on the Environment and People's Parliamentary Group have tabled amendments to this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u157	To defend the non-law proposition, you have the floor to Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u158	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. First of all, I want to apologize to the Presidency and the Bureau for the mistake my parliamentary group made. It is true that Mrs. Pierres is the voice of equality, but it is more true even though the Socialist Group understands the struggle against gender violence as a cross-cutting issue, so she speaks of social policy. [[Applause]] At the doors of November 25, of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, the PSdeG now brings to this House an initiative to try to shorten, or mitigate, a situation silenced not only by those who suffer it, but also by society as a whole, that of women who have been 30, 40 or 50 years old with beatings, insults or other kinds of humiliations, that of our elders, that of those who sometimes don't detect it, that of those who are completely silent, that of those who forgive everyone. If any form of violence, ladies and gentlemen, even if it lasts weeks or months, it generates indifference, powerlessness and undermines the self-esteem of the woman who suffers it, imagine for a moment, ladies, feeling this fear every day of your life, that fear when you hear the key to entering the lock of your own house. It's silent masculine violence, relegated to intimacy, which imposes double discrimination in this case, double invisibility, gender and age. It's a suffering that doesn't even end with the death of the aggressor, the abuser, because widows are also victims in the present. After forty or fifty years of suffering from such ill treatment, there is still post-traumatic tension, night terror or irreparable physical sequelae. It's a reality we don't usually talk about in this House either. It'll probably be because it generates more social alarm when the murders are younger women. It has a certain logic, and it's because the younger ones are the present, but they're also forming the foundations of society for the future of our country. According to the report of feminicides and other murders of women in Spain from 2015 onwards, the more than 60 years killed between 2010 and 2015, were 175 women. If we look at the prevalence rate in that period, it's 4.9 women killed per million. It's higher than the total prevalence of 4.4 per million. In most cases, killers are their partners, and in many cases they are also their children or even their sons-in-laws, or ex-genders. Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, has one of the highest prevalence rates in all of Spain: 6.63 women killed per million. We are the fourth autonomous community with the highest rate, above that state average of 4.9. Beyond including it in some guides, or in some punctual talks, no concrete measures have been taken so far to address this problem; nothing specific to give concrete training to detect this violence; nothing to articulate specialized attention; nothing for concrete assistance to these women, specific assistance to them, thus contributing to keeping thousands of Galicians in silence and forgetfulness who have suffered mistreatment for decades. According to the data in the 2017 Annual Report on Violence, a total of 417 women benefited from the regular aid programme last year. If we ask ourselves how many more than 60 years have had these aids, it was only 18 gentlemen, little more than 4%. Single payouts: 66 women, 2 women, 3%. On the welcoming Greek network, how many are over 60? It was 3, 2.07%. Data tells us that it's not enough what's being done, they tell us that we're not going the right way, maybe because, when it comes to themes of macho violence, it's generalized and we don't also take into account the specific conditions of each segment of the population. That is the important thing to pay attention to and develop the most appropriate public policies to deal with this violence, and that is why we are presenting this specific initiative on this subject. Some of us weren't even born when these women were growing up. Precisely today, when forty-three years have passed since the dictator's death, it must be remembered that most of our elders have been educated in franchiseism, who have been educated in an extreme Catholicism that assumes that marriage is for life, in which the woman has the duty to care for the family, to sacrifice herself for the sake of children and daughters, and to be always, and whatever happens, on the side of her mate. Women who grew up listening, "Don't be ungrateful, but if you have a house, but if you don't lack anything," while they were hit in their own home. Women who, when they tried, or just thought or communicated to a relative or friend who wanted to escape from that situation, heard, "Where are you going? Where are you going to go without him?" That's why they present greater difficulties in ending relationships of violence, lack of detection and invisibility, economic dependence, greater social isolation. Also because of this loneliness, because of these traditional roles of gender and, above all, because of this damage that has been caused for decades of abuse, with a vulnerability that is accentuated in the cases of women with disabilities and women living in rural areas. The economic dependency — and I want to stop here for a moment — is, ladies, one of the most unbreakable barriers between women and the denunciation of their partner; women who have worked their entire lives taking care of their children, taking care of the chores of the home, women who have not paid and who now receive the minimum pensions. They didn't charge because they didn't enter the labour market or, in many cases, even because they worked in family businesses without being discharged into social security. This explains the experts in the latest macroeconomic survey of gender violence, developed in 2015 by the then Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, that women report less — or 1.4% of total complaints against 14% of women over 65 years of age — than those killed. They ask for less help from doctors and doctors, and psychologists and psychologists. They tell less about their family and friends. And when they tell them, they find much less understanding and empathy than the younger ones. The available data also indicates that these women are largely unaware of the resources to get out of this spiral of violence. Today, from the PSdEG, we not only want to put this reality on the table, but also start to fight so much suffering by improving the mechanisms to detect it in this age ratio, and introduce it in a cross-sectional way in all services of attention to the elders, facing this ignorance, this deprotection, through protocols adapted to the needs of these women. It's something you always have to go, ladies and gentlemen, accompanied by a greater investment. This initiative aims to put in place training for all those professionals — and I mean women because most women are women — of attention to the elderly, to those who are professionals of home help, to telecare, to those who are in daily contact with our elders and are the ones who can best detect these situations, to the homes of older and day-care centres, to know those alerts and to act as quickly as possible. There are economic resources for this, the Galician Union has economic resources for this. But in addition, the Socialist Government has already activated the 200 million euros of the State Pact for 2018, and within these 200 million there is a split of 100 million euros for the autonomous communities. [[Applause]] This community receives 8.5 million euros. Exceptionally, the royal decree published on August 3rd will allow these funds to be executed in 2019 without being discounted. There are resources, ladies and gentlemen. Our duty is to support these women with concrete measures to contribute to the break-up of that so painful silence that they are enduring many of them, to provide effective support that enables them to live without fear and to enjoy calmly the last years of their lives. We owe you, ladies and gentlemen. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u160	Thank you, President. The first thing we want to say is that we are going to vote in favour of this initiative. We agree that we are faced with a collective that has been even more invisible for a long time, a collective that may have been suffering violence for many years in a more personal, quieter way. The role of gender crosses the whole of society, and in fact, we have often talked about specific actions for youth, because it is worrying that young people and girls perpetuate these roles. But it's true that we talk fewer times about how this situation is going on for older women, women that many of them have a very important level of economic dependence. As mentioned by the spokesman for the Socialist Party, many women have worked their whole lives for many years free of charge in the home, and obviously these women have more difficulty in breaking up with violence. How many women have endured treatment in silence for many years! How many women can't or have enough resources to live a life of economic independence! And as the Socialist Party's spokesman also said, data shows that we are not getting to this very important sector of the population, that resources need to socialize them more. We have often talked about rural areas and the difficulties facing access to certain types of rural resources. There are these problems, we need to improve accessibility so that, regardless of the area of the territory in which you are, you can access all the resources, and so that all women, regardless of whether they live in the city or live in a town, can access resources like the CIS or foster homes. We believe this initiative also helps to get out of the silence that has been installed so long in these women. There are few words about the situation of so many women who have been treated in silence for many years without the help needed to get them out of that circle. We agree with the initiative, which focuses on training proposals, specifically on the areas of people working in residences, on people working in day-care centres, or on those who care for homes, for example, through teleassistion. It seems to us that this is fundamental, because it's also true that I think we should be self-criticizing. We often talk about the need for training in macho violence in the judicial field, which is fundamental in the field of state forces and security bodies, but the truth is that we may sometimes forget this leg. I have mentioned on many occasions, in the debates we have in the Committee on Equality, the importance of acting also from the health field. Protocols that exist are not known, and in many places there are no necessary protocols. So, in that sense, we agree that the residences, day centers and the homes of the workers who care at home are a fundamental tool for detecting and helping to break up with these macho violences, but we add in our amendment one more paragraph, which is the health centers, because we know that it is not enough, that there is not enough, that many professionals do not know these protocols to break up, to detect male violence. And another of our amendments goes right because, as I said, we often take the subject of youth into account. When we talk about the macroeconomic survey that is going to be taken forward, we also want to include specific proposals for these women, because, as I say always, if we don't know reality in a concrete, quantitative and qualitative way, we won't be able to act to improve the situation of these women. So, in this sense, the other part of our amendment is going to be referred to in this macro-enquisition that the Greek Government is planning to do also includes the specific assessment so that we can get to know better, because we often lack data, we don't know how the situation is. Today, in the debate of Rueda's appearance, I think we have reached that agreement. We have to do a Welsh macro-enquisition against macho violence, for many years we haven't done a macro-enquisition of these characteristics, and we also need that macro-enquisition to be as useful as possible. Today this initiative puts a specific sector, a specific sector, on the table. We agree that it is also necessary to address macho violence from these particularities. It's structural. It affects all women. But we also have to understand how we can be more useful in reaching all sectors, and in that sense, as I said, we present this amendment, but we are going to vote favourably, and we hope and believe that it is a non-law proposition that can be assumed by all parliamentary groups, and we hope that this is the first agreement of many, as we have always said, on violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u162	Hello, good afternoon. I am surprised at Mrs. Blanco's intervention, because she said at the beginning of her speech that the Galician Union does nothing, that there are no budgets, that there are no training. Look, nothing is being done by this parliamentary group right now in the field of equality, because its initiative, the initiative it presents, is not really its own; it is an initiative that was discussed in the Women's Committee of 12 March, and so it appears reflected in the Journal of Sessions, of the Madrid Assembly, of the Madrid Community, and, in addition, it is an initiative by the Citizens' Group, with which nothing is done and what the Socialist Party does in this House, in the matter of equality, is all, with which the criticism to the Galician Council is too much, with which I believe that in this issue they make a copy and literally catch up of the non-Citizens's proposal of 12 March. They demand exactly the same: training and budgeting for early detection of macho violence for home aid, training and budgeting assistants for early detection of machist violence in the network of older public residences, and they seek to develop a specific programme for detection and intervention in centres of major and day centres — but not you, another parliamentary group in another city, another autonomous community. As The Resents said in their song, Galicia is a "different place," and, of course, in the matter of equality, far above many autonomous communities, and we must have a head well raised. Look, with regard to training, in the Madrid Community they have a training plan with specific training actions for early detection, but in Galicia we are the first autonomous community in Spain which is collected by law that the entire public administration has training for the prevention of combating gender violence and in the area of equality, with Decree 70/2017 of 13 July, which I suppose will all know. And also the way we do our autonomous community is different. The Madrid Strategy against Gender Violence 2016-2021 has a budget signed of 272 million euros. In our autonomous community last year we approved the VII Strategic Equal Opportunities Plan 2017-2020, with an budget of 392 million euros. As well you can extract from the figure, we have 120 million more for about four million people less. It's very clear, ladies and gentlemen, that Galicia is not Madrid and that we are in a different place. In addition to this copy, he says in his text that there are many initiatives that are already underway in our country and beyond our borders. And it speaks of a specific program, Stop View, against violence in older women, a project of an organization related to the Socialist Party, which is the Union of Family Associations, linked to a huge group of entities such as Progressive Women, Women Foundation and the Association of Separate and Divorced Women. This wonderful study is a 2011 study published in 2013 and with data from the 2004 Imserso. I ask you, please, to update the data and that, when you want to bring interesting research into your background in non-law proposals, you can bring something towards 2018, which is the year we are — and not in 2011. The work of the Socialist Party — I am summarizing this non-law proposal — is mediocre, manipulative and ranciful, because plaxia, because it copies and because it uses data from dead organizations. From the People's Group, of course, we are presenting an amendment and we are going to vote on equal training for the entire public sector of the Galician administration, for the teaching staff, for Sergas's statutory staff; we are going to vote on yes for all the training for the entire staff of Galician Justice and for the Galician police force; and we are going to vote on the VII Strategic Plan on Equal Opportunities for Men and Women, where specificity in training for the governing bodies, for the new staff and for the teams. And, of course, we will vote for more than EUR 59 million in this equality plan, where the principle of equality is integrated into the policies and actions of the Government of Galicia. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote that if we are to work against gender-based violence, as the People's Party always does. They do not forget that the State Covenant budgets that are being put into effect are the budgets of the People's Party. And for that and all the rest, the Government of Galicia is pioneer, innovative and vanguard in many fields, in training too, because there is training for older women, for young women, but in all fields, in education, in health care, in home care, in universities, and for all health personnel and in all areas. Of course, to finish, we're not going to support your text, because your non-law proposition is a yes against masculine violence, but for all women of all ages, for older women and for Thursdays. Our not in their text is a yes to rural women, to sea women, to immigrant women, to entrepreneurs, to unemployed people, to LGTBI collectives, and of course to diversity, because we are all responsible for violence. And our not to your text is a yes to the work of the entire Greek society against masculine violence, it's a job of all of us. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u163	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u164	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. I, in this way of introduction, believe that, if there is anything we have to thank the Government of Mr. Pedro Sánchez, is that the People's Party here in Galicia is about to embrace the right to self-determination of this country, and they know that there you will always find the BNG. [[Applause]] Of course, Galicia, "different place." Let's go. I believe that here something has been said beyond unfortunate — I think the People's Party Member could meditate on it from her stage now — that voting this initiative is a yes to male violence for all women of all ages. I think you weren't thinking about what you said and I think you can meditate on it now. We, from the BNG, will support this initiative presented by the Socialist Party. They focus on a particular group, in women over the age of 65, who are in our country — in fact, Galicia, "different place" — a very important part of our population, particularly in many localities and in many areas of our country. They constitute a fundamental part of the pyramidal structure of our country, and must therefore focus our attention on all areas in a cross-sectional and integral nature, and of course also in the struggle and fight against macho violence. And then what becomes manifest, or where they want to focus also from the PSdeG, is the formation of the set of professionals working in this field of social policy. And here we started the plenary session with that meeting of Vice President of the Board, Counsellor Rueda, and we put all the political forces -- my comrade Noa Presas too -- the focus on the vanguard that Galicia has been on preventing and fighting violence against macho for nearly a decade now. And precisely in that law of 2007, in that Law on the Comprehensive Prevention and Treatment of Male Violence, there is a chapter, chapter II, which is entirely directed to research and training of all professionals and professionals who work directly or indirectly in women who may be in a situation of male violence. Mrs. Presas, my companion, in the morning, said: it's one of the areas, one of the least developed aspects in the last decade of that law. And here I wanted to make a slaughter of what the honourable Member said, the spokesperson in this case, of the People's Party, because you focus your amendment on Decree 70/2017, which is directed at the training of the public professional, the public staff. But in terms of social services, there are a lot of workers and workers who are in the private sector, or because they work from outsourced services or direct residences, day centres or any other type of care directed to dependent population, or women over 65, who are part of the property, private companies -- that's my subconscious -- who are part of the staff of private companies. And so we have to have that vision from the public field of training for all staff, both public and private. It is an example of that decree for the formation of the public staff of the lens that goes through the development of the law itself, because the law is of the year 2007, that decree is of the year 2017, and, as you well referred, Mrs. Míguez, where he addressed himself or where he focused the training of the public staff was in the staff of the Sergas, the staff officer of Justice, all with many nuances — we will also have a chance to speak more about this — in the Autonomic Police and also in the teaching staff. All those people who work where they want to focus today are left out the PSdEG-PSOE initiative, which is focused on women over 65 and mainly that dependent population. He was talking here about health. We also have the evidence that here what has practically been done is what has been done since 2007, 2008 and 2009. There is a guide to detection and intervention in cases of male violence from the field of public health and, above all, from the field of primary care that was made when she was secretary-general of Equality to comrade Carmen Adán, and that she was neither reviewed nor analyzed nor approached to introduce the corresponding changes. And, simply — I insist that we support this initiative as it has been presented — a nuance, because you said that if this was brought from another latitude, another community, another political formation, and to me because you refreshed my memory, Mrs. Míguez, and you saw me in the head told the pot to the chase, because just one year ago, on November 25, last year, the People's Party was carrying a cut-and-cut initiative from the Fegamp protocol. So I don't think it was the most timely thing you said that. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u166	Thank you very much, President. It's just that I'm still a little hit; excuse me, gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] If you'll let me talk, please. Thank you. With regard to the amendment of En Marea, we would like to accept it because it is true that these data in the macro-enquisition would be interesting to have them, since not even in the field of state-level macho violence. Also, performances in medical services are considered to be very important because older people have a lot of access to these services. Well, today Mr. Rueda told us that we had made contributions and proposals. I write it like that. When we make a contribution and a proposal they insult us. We were called mediocres, manipulators and ranciers for taking a proposal — which you were wrong — from my fellow members of the Murcia Assembly, the Socialist Party. And you have to have enough humility, Mrs Míguez, for, when in other latitudes — as Mrs Rodil said — if you are doing things well, look at yourself in that mirror — as a People's Party Member said the other day — and copy who is doing well. [[Applause]] Besides, you came here — that I've already had the hair on my head — mentioning the Resented. And it's just that you today sounded a lot more like a Life is still the same, from Julio Iglesias, than from a Galicia, a different place from the Resented. Because "different place" can only be for your speech, because what you didn't say is that the People's Party supported this initiative both at the Murcia Assembly and at the Madrid Assembly. Why? Because there they don't have the absolute majority, because there they don't have the knee, because there you can't afford the superiority that you and your group have today to deal with such a serious issue, Mrs. García Míguez, like this. [[Applause]] And on top of that, they present an amendment... I did my intervention by saying that women over sixty-five were invisible. For the People's Party, at the beginning of November 25, presents an amendment, a very basic initiative — it must be said — that it did not ask for great things — simply to begin to affect this issue — invisibility of older women, because at no time it speaks of them. Imagining the reality of social policy in this country, a country where, in recent years, Mr. Feijóo's government has not created a single public management square in senior residences. What form are the people who are serving our elders in private residences with squares arranged by the Galician Union? Who forms them, Mrs. García Míguez? [[Applause]] An act guide! That is what there is: a guide to action by the Galician Council of 2011 which, by the way, was in a drawer — I would like the honourable Member of the People's Party to let me finish, Mr President — a guide to coordinated action against the mistreatment of older people. [[Mr. Blanco Rodríguez shows you a document to the members of the House.]] This guide was three years old, ladies — three years! — put in a drawer, until 2011, when it was removed because there was a very media case of a woman's murder. [[Murmurs.]] A guide that not only covers the case of abuse of older women, but also all kinds of abuse of people over the age of sixty. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] A guide that, you know who did it? He made her that evil, evil Bipartite when he was ruling this autonomous community. This is the only one. [[Applause]] There's not a single public resource to meet our elders.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u167	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u168	Mrs. García Míguez, they didn't deserve the women who were alone right now, yesterday, and when we were born, that you had done this intervention. And a reflection for the People's Group: as long as you continue to vote against these initiatives, there will continue to be women who feel afraid when their partners put the key in the locks of their homes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u170	Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, on the implementation and application by the Government of Greece of the regulatory and regulatory measures necessary to avoid, from the 2018-2019 course, the requirement by schools of different uniforms for each sex
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u171	There is a self-amendment of the proposed group itself, one of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales and one of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u172	To formulate the proposal has the floor to Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u173	Thank you, President. Today, on November 25, World Day against Machist Violence, from En Marea, we want to focus, again, on school, as the fundamental space in which we work for the feminist society we want and need. There are several initiatives we have already taken in this matter, and we hope that we will be able to take something forward. A trench which, as we have said on numerous occasions, we regard as fundamental against machismo, in which every day we take steps for equality. A space in which — we must insist — all efforts are few to improve the lives of those who are and those who come. Precisely because school is a space in which, today, they continue to perpetuate and transmit gender roles by virtue of those girls today — women tomorrow — learn to model behaviors, desires and attitudes. For them, what is said to be children; for them, what is said to be children; the football for them, the dance for them; the cars for them, the dolls for them; the strength for them, the delicacy for them; the science for them, the letters for them; and also, of course, the trousers for them and the skirt for them. It's called role division and of course it's called machismo. It's not equality and, of course, it's not a free decision. However, this division of traditional roles is collapsing with a society that demands speed changes. Let's remember that this was the year of the greatest 8th of March, it was the year of the "I do believe thee", it was the year of the "me all". The year in which it became clear that the feminist revolution is in progress, that there are thousands of women out there saying: enough already, enough inequality, enough machoism, enough to call it democracy if it's not with us, enough to call them rights if they're not for all. And those we're here have an obligation to bring their claims and bet firmly on an inclusive society for all. On the other hand, the legislation, little pass, progresses. Thus, the Resolution of the European Parliament of 12 March 2013 on the elimination of gender stereotypes in the European Union disintegrates numerous considerations, requests and recommendations on legislation for specific measures in different fields — political, economic, labour...—, making a special fincapé in the field of education and in children, in the sense that "children face gender stereotypes at very early ages, which influence their perception of how men and women should behave and have repercussions throughout their life and on their future aspirations." Thus, the previous resolution emphasizes the importance of promoting equality between women and men from an early age in order to fight effectively against stereotypes, and believes that all direct and indirect forms of discrimination on the grounds of gender should be eliminated in order to guarantee women's right to equal treatment. In this line, gender-differentiated school uniforms are increasingly critical in various European states because they are considered determinants to maintain gender stereotypes at school. There is a clear link between the skirt or the dress and the stereotype of a traditional femininity, in which it would be inappropriate to dress labeled masculine, like pants. In this way, the segregation of roles begins with the school uniform and the impossibility of girls being able to choose whether to attend with a trousers. This affects the vast majority of educational institutions that impose uniforms throughout their schooling, from three to sixteen, or even eighteen. It is a debate which, as I said, is emerging in many countries around us and even in our state, in different territories. In fact, at the beginning of the course, many public schools in the United Kingdom have eliminated the sexual reference in the dress codes, so that each child is given freedom in choosing how they want to dress up to attend school. Precisely, the Supreme Court ruling of 19 April 2011 considered contrary to the principle of non-discrimination on the grounds of sex, which is contained in Article 14 of the Spanish Constitution, the usual practice in private health by which assistants and nurses are forced to wear a uniform consistent with cofia, pocket mandale, skirt and stockings, without the possibility of electing a sanitary dress of trousers and shirt that used their equivalent men and which is in common use in public health. In other words, the Supreme Court determined that forcing women to take leave at work was contrary to the principle of non-discrimination, contrary to constitutional law, and ended up forcing many private companies to change their dress standards. The question is clear: why not in companies and schools? Is it not a contradiction, in the light of this sentence, that almost all the educational centers decide that the student wears a school uniform and must keep a dress code differentiated by sex between children and children? Could it not incur infringement of constitutional guarantees, in addition to promoting gender stereotypes contrary to the effective equality between women and men, as detailed in the resolution of the European Parliament already mentioned? From En Marea we think that it is, and that the girls and women who started this debate in many scenarios deserve and need our respect and support. But let us continue with the laws, because in addition to the aforementioned Spanish Constitution, the current education legislation itself in the field of equality, even the Galician Self-Government Statute itself, sets out several legal premises which must ensure equality of treatment and non-discrimination between students and students in the educational field. For example, organic law 2/2006, of 3 May, of education, includes among its aims the development of values that promote effective equality between men and women, education in respect of fundamental rights and freedoms and non-discrimination and equal rights and opportunities between men and women, and so on, including the functions of the Educational Inspection, to ensure the fulfilment and application of principles and values aimed at promoting real equality between men and women. By its band, in Organic Law 3/2007 of 22 March, for effective equality between men and women, its articles 23 and 24 indicate, respectively, that the education system will include within its principles of quality the elimination of obstacles to effective equality between women and men and the promotion of full equality between men and women, and that educational administrations will guarantee equal right to education for women and men through active integration in the objectives and educational actions of the principle of equal treatment, preventing gender or associated social stereotypes from producing inequalities between women and men. It is clear to us that the removal of these obstacles must also result in the removal of differentiated clothing. Finally, the Galician Autonomy Statute includes that it is up to the Galician public authorities to promote the conditions for the freedom and equality of the individual and of the groups in which it integrates to be real and effective, to remove the obstacles that hinder or hinder its fullness and facilitate the participation of all Greeks in political, economic, cultural and social life. In the same vein, the Galician Equality Act, in article 18, states that the inequalities between pupils and students supported by beliefs, prejudices, traditions or customary practices, directly or indirectly, of a stereotypical distribution of roles between the sexes and an image of domination of one sex over the other in any sphere of life. I mean, the legislative framework is clear. There is more than enough legislative framework to put in place an initiative like the one we bring to this parliament today. We can't make it clear that the use of the skirt... Mr. President, you can't stop for a second. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u174	Yes, you're right. Then be quiet because you hear a lot here. You just listen a lot! [[Murmurs.]] You listen a lot here and you're upset, the honourable Member bothers you. You have to understand, if you're upset... please be quiet, if you hear a lot here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Balbordo.]] Put your hand forward to talk! [[Balbordo.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u175	And yet they have more to say, between laughter and comments. It's amazing! [[Murmurs.]] We can't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u176	Quiet. Mr. Sánchez, that's it. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Go ahead, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u177	We cannot see that the use of the skirt obviously conditions children's freedom of movement, which is directly related in many cases to the abandonment of games in leisure hours — such as football, basketball, careers, etc. — and any other activity that is hardly compatible with a piece that, at the slightest movement, limits them, including the fact of leaving their underwear to the air, which causes laughter and comments among their partners. What is at the bottom is — as the president of the association Gafas Lilas says — that what weighs beauty, finery and femininity is above equality. We're teaching our girls in schools to be pretty before they're happy, and that's so deeply rooted in society, in our bodies and in our minds that it's going to be very difficult to overcome. From Marea we want happy girls, yes, who play in the courtyards, run, kick; happy girls who learn to be free women, self-employed. That is why we present this non-legislative proposal in which we urge the Government of Greece to implement and apply all relevant regulatory measures so that, from the next school, all those educational centres that decide that the light school uniform student does not force a gender-differentiated dress code between students and students, considering, in any case, the option that girls can choose to go to the educational center with pants. I mean, we're putting on the table an initiative of minimals, whenever our stance would clearly be that of the single uniform, since we're aware of the illusion of free choice in a masquerade society; because we're aware of how difficult it would be for girls to oppose the group pressure. We know cases like the one in Sina, an 8-year-old girl who put this matter in the media when one day she decided to keep her skirt in the closet because she considered it unfair to have to go to school with skirt and not with pants. Not all girls are Sina, not all girls have the same strength and courage to contradict the rules. But in search of consensus, with the firm intention of being able to take a little step through our daughters today, we have made a more flexible initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u179	You have, ladies, the chance to stand up. We ask them to do so with equality and with the rights of all; small but firm steps. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u181	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. A previous reflection, because it's also something that we have the opportunity to say, we say it. I think this is, again, a good opportunity. If we want to move forward in promoting real and effective equality in our country's educational centres, the first thing is to end the public funding of the schools that teach students. That should be the first point, almost a sine qua non condition, in order to move forward in this debate. Because in a country with public funds that continues to keep women and men separate in classrooms, I believe that even within that framework, within that context, the initiative presented today at Marea seems too much to demand. We, from BNG, will support this initiative. We tabled an amendment just to delete the reference that was made, in particular, to a school course that is now in progress. They already pick up in their auto amendment, in addition, the next course, 2019-2020, and we look good. He said we're going to support this initiative, and in addition to what I've already told Mrs Chao, I would add one more question, which is to go beyond binaryism as well as what it has to do with clothing in general, beyond the school uniforms. And as far as it has to do with school uniforms strictly, mostly — almost I would say that in our exclusive country — in those private-concerted centres, in the text recast in the field of equality of the year 2015, in article 18 — Mrs Chao also said — of the Equality Act of the year 2004, which appears specifically collected in the first equality plan in the educational field approved by the Galician Union in 2016, I think it expressly refers to the exact question that is behind not only the maintenance of school uniforms, but rather the sexual allocation or distribution of garments that make up women and men. And there is a central element that is about what it is supported or intended to sustain, even in the 21st century, in 2018, that distribution or allocation of gender roles and also its correlation in clothing, which are such traditions or customary practices, those customs, which we have dragged generation after generation and which seems.... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u182	There's a lot of noise, too much noise. I understand that whoever's using the word has to bother you, whether it's from the group. There's too much noise! I say it generally for everyone. Too much noise. Let's see if, please, we can go with more... because it upsets the one who's here. It bothers me and I'm not talking...! Whenever you want, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u183	Thank you, President. He said that this article 18 of the Equality Act of 2004 is at the root of the theory about which it is intended to support or with which it is intended to justify the survival of that distribution of garments and school uniforms on the basis of sex. These traditions or such customary practices -- that's what the legal text says -- these customs, which are transmitters and are reproducing, generation after generation, a stereotyped distribution of roles between women and men. But in addition to that, if I may... — if I may not, I will do the same — in reference to the amendment I tabled... — I am in the exercise of the word and I do what I want to do, am I not? — With reference to the amendment tabled by the People's Party, in the Law on the Prevention and Comprehensive Treatment of Machist Violence of 2007, which again places us not only on the side of the Spanish State as a whole, but in many countries of the European Union, Article 22 expressly states the responsibility of the Galician Union to ensure that the school councils of the centres promote directed measures, tending, to promote equality in the educational field. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I insist that we make this mention precisely to this amendment tabled by the People's Party, which seems to derive almost entirely from the decision-making capacity in school councils, when the Galician and the German Government, also in accordance with the legislation we have been endowed with, and which has been approved for more than a decade, also places in the hands of the Greek Government the ability to promote and promote measures aimed at breaking up with gender stereotypes also in terms of clothing. Basically — I insist — the assignment of that skirt for them and that trousers for them is intended to support these customs, those traditions, even we hear not long arguments from a pretentious or supposed freedom of choice for the people who wear the uniform. In that sense, we were surprised by the BNG when we read the second part of the amendment of the People's Party, which urged the Spanish Government to legislate. And it surprises us in the first term because we have the capacity. It says the 1981 Statute — it is not revolutionary or separatist — that Galicia has full powers and full capacity to regulate and administer education in all its scope, levels and degrees, modalities and specialties, of course, always within the framework of its competences. And in that sense, it must be remembered — Mrs Chao of the United Kingdom — that we have here also the case of Euskadi, who in 2016, in November, already gave a recommendation to private-concerted centres to allow them to choose the uniform freely: therefore, to wear pants in the case of women. Secondly, because it appeals to an agreement in Congress. I was looking for the Committee on Equality's Journal of Sessions and it was the PP that was the only political force that voted against...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u184	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u185	...—end of this initiative, presented at that time by the United States-We can. It's also true that we were talking about 2017, in which Mr. Mariano Rajoy was Moncloa's tenant. And besides it was that political force, it was the People's Party, who appealed to a supposed freedom of choice that is not so, as they already assign skirts for them and pants for them. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u187	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. First of all, I would like to begin the intervention — and I think it is necessary — by pointing out that in the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Galicia we believe that the teachers of the education system in Galicia are responsible and committed to gender equality, because by listening to you, listening to statements such as that we are teaching our children in schools to be beautiful rather than happy, to think that you are questioning the professionalism of the teachers of the education system in Galicia. Here we go back to the usual story. Let's get up here and say the first thing that comes to mind, without taking into account that the arguments that are being raised may at times prove offensive. Listen! we can agree on many of the issues that have been discussed, but I think you also have to have some moderation in exposing your arguments because, I repeat, there is a community of professionals in the teaching of Greek committed to defence equality and compliance with the laws, and, listening to you, anyone outside Galicia who does not know the reality of our education system would think that we are living in a society totally distorted, in which there is discrimination on the basis of brutal gender, in which femininity is drowned... I don't know, I hardly have any appeal to think what that society would be like for you to move. Look, we, as they said, tabled an amendment. We tabled an amendment because we understand that we need to put the issues in their fair terms. You talked about the need to eliminate gender stereotypes, and we agree; you talked about the need to walk and move forward towards equality, and we are fully in agreement with it too; but you must also have present other aspects that are collected in the vigorative legislative framework and that we believe you don't have to turn your back on them. For example, how many times in this House do we talk about the need or importance of the participation of the educational community in making decisions in everything that has to do with the organization and operation of educational centres? On multiple occasions. I am sure that, in addition, if we review the Diary of Sessions, you have brought a lot of initiatives in which you demand precisely greater involvement or that the entire educational community is given a greater voice within the decision making of the organization of the centres. In Galicia, fortunately, we have a legislative tool, we have a law, which is Law 4/2011, of June 30, of coexistence and participation of the educational community, which regulates precisely the degree of participation of the educational community in making decisions for the organization of educational centres in Galicia. And in that case it is not that we want — as Mrs Rodil said — to derive full responsibility in school councils. No, no, not much less! But if we understand that the school councils and the educational community, in specific matters about the organization of the center, must express their opinion. That's why you said it and I pick it up, and I think in that sense the amendment we presented goes in line with what you said. You pointed to the example of Euskadi, that Euskadi sent a recommendation... well, what do we say at the first point of our amendment? Remind educational institutions of the importance of including standards. It's a recommendation. The Greek Government is being urged to make a recommendation for compliance with the Welsh Law for equality of women and men. By the way, I imagine it was a typographical mistake because I understand that you have read the law, but you have been constantly talking about the eradication of prejudices in teaching centers by referring to article 18 of the law, and you know perfectly — so I say it was a typographical error — which is article 10 of the teaching centers; article 18 speaks of the eradication of sexism in institutional and social language. So, I understand it would be a typographical error. I also carry the work of reading things and informing myself to then argue. In that sense, as I said before, I think it is good that we adopt agreements that allow us to move forward towards equality between men and women. The importance of education? Of course, the educational field is central to this. But we do not favor the educational field and its importance if we are constantly questioning the measures taken by professionals in the educational field to walk for equality! Finally, we present this amendment because we understand that it is necessary to reach an agreement to, within the existing framework of competence and respecting the role of school councils, urge the Government to address the educational community and remind the centres of the importance of including standards on clothing in the classes to be adopted — as I say — the school councils in order to regulate their use by the student does not pay attention to their dignity, does not assume discrimination on grounds of sex or a risk to their personal health or integrity and that of the other members of the educational community, or does not impede or hinder the normal participation of the student in educational activities. And finally, to transfer to the central government the need to face dress regulations in educational institutions with the involvement of school councils. And I don't have time, but I'd like to make a reflection too. Because look, you were talking about the People's Group voting against this at the Congress of Deputies, right. This was discussed, moreover, curiously, on the same day as the State Covenant against Gender Violence, in which the group proposing this initiative did not vote in favour. You know it perfectly well too. So there's another question, this initiative that brings in Marea today to the Galician Parliament has been registered — it's that sometimes dates are symbolic or important — a month after In Marea and PSOE decided to rise from the Political Social Pact for Education at the Congress of Deputies. If they really wanted to work from the educational point of view towards effective real equality, what better framework for doing so than that social and political pact for education, what better framework for that? No, but they decided to get up and leave.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u188	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u189	I'm done, Mr. President. Finally, I believe — and I will reiterate it as often as I have occasion — that all of us here defend the need to work for equality in the same way. If we're all on the same path, I think we can and must reach agreements. In that sense, our amendment is, of course, constructive, we hope that they will take it into consideration. And, of course, we ask you, if you have occasion in your last intervention, to correct that image so negative that you want to move from the German teaching. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u190	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. We were the only group that didn't amend this non-law proposal because we understood that the reference to the course in which it was taken was the result of the moment when it was registered. But, frankly, we didn't count on the twisting of the popular party's argument in its amendment. We understand that this is a debate on a specific aspect of school uniforms, not even a debate on whether it is uniform or not, as Mrs Chao has perfectly explained. There are positions in favour and against both public and concerted education. There are examples, by the autonomous community ahead, of public centers that voluntarily — as could not be otherwise — decide to use school uniforms, and it is voluntary for students and students. So it's not a debate about the uniform, it's about the obligation that students can choose freely if they wear out or wear a pants. In that sense, of course, our party, our political group, is in favour of the initiative and so it will vote for it. But he calls me to the attention of some of the considerations that have been made here, making it clear that we have all done this because we have a law of participation of the educational community, Law 4/2011, which literally says "which addresses the issue that has given rise to important educational controversies..."—literally—"of regulating the student's clothing." And automatically what the articulate says is that it is left in the hands of the School Council of each centre the decision about an aspect that has led to important educational controversy. This is the autonomy understood at the extreme level. Then — with the urgency that characterizes the People's Party by regulating the laws — they issued a decree four years later. Since the theme was sufficiently transcendent, they publish four years later, in 2015, a decree. That's the transcendence he's given. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In any case, I would like to make a reference to what the director of the Interdisciplinary Center for Feminist Research and Gender Studies at the University of Santiago de Compostela said on the subject, who concludes, after making a series of considerations about the school uniform, which, in any case, the fair thing is that students can choose what kind of clothes they wear. Even though I don't have to stand on the amendment, if I'd like to make a reference to some of the things Mr. Fernández Gil said. First of all, you are using the married doctrine, which consists of recentralizing competences. His own amendment has been an explicit recognition, in point 2, that Dad State regulates what we dare not write. So let the Government of the State come to take the chestnuts out of the fire, because you in your own regulations, both in the law of 2011 and in the decree of 2015, don't say anything about it. Look, you haven't been sublime, but it has sublimated from the physical point of view, which is when something goes from solid state to gas directly; that is, it doesn't go through the liquid state. First of all, you say that you respect the autonomy of the centres, and then it's the state that regulates the issue of clothing in school. And by means of it — which would be the liquid state — the administration of the Galician Union, which has full powers but disappears from the map. That's your non-law proposal, that's your amendment. Look, frankly, for that trip we didn't need any pads, things like they are. It will allow me to tell you that this you present is a genuine self-amendment to the law of 2011, a law dictated by the People's Party, because it turns out that this law must now be amended or exceeded, in any case, by a law that the state must dictate. It is you with this amendment, Mr Fernández Gil — I am sorry to say — who question the professionalism that has not questioned En Marea's initiative at any time. Because you're the ones who say you should remind the centers what regulations they have to regulate for the use of school uniform. It's that simple. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u192	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u193	Thank you, President. First, thank you for the support of the Socialist Group and the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. And, of course, we understand that BNG's amendment is clarified with our own amendment. Regarding the amendment of the Popular Group, Mr. Fernández Gil, the truth is that one never ceases to marvel at his posture, nothing surprising seeing the laughter that has produced the matter to you and to your companion who is now almost going to cast the sixth. [[Murmurs.]] And nothing surprising listening...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u194	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] No one puts the sixth here... on the hemicycle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u195	Nothing surprising listening to your intervention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u196	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u197	Nothing surprising listening to his intervention, in which all he does is the usual: trying to confuse rather than enter the concrete debate, which in this case was very clear. As for the first point, what do you want me to say? Good words and put on the table the obvious, that there can't be a discriminatory dress. But the question that we dealt with was very concrete: do you think the use of differentiated uniforms is a form of discrimination or not? About this it was about what was to be positioned, and about this you said nothing. From Marea we understand that yes, that is why we bring this parliamentary initiative. And about this is what we want the groups to be positioned on. And the second one's already spooky. He claims responsibilities to the Government of the State recalling a non-law proposal that our Confederal Group brought to Congress and that he went ahead with the vote against the People's Party. With the vote against! We want the State to act, yes, of course, but we want the self-government to do so, as long as it is obvious, the competition framework is clear, wide enough, wide enough, to position itself on a matter that affects equal education so directly. You, Mr. Fernández Gil, are asking us to accept an amendment which is as much as not to do anything. Please think about it. Today we're talking about the uniform, the skirt, and we have to take a break. Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that there is much more behind the skirt than a symbol. The skirt is an instrument that reproduces and visualizes the model of how we want our children to be: fine, educated, beautiful, quiet, with their legs closed... that was what we were talking about, not about the professionals. Those constructions and labels compete in schools every day, you just need to look at the distribution of space in school courtyards. For example, a scale reproduction of what happens in society, where children occupy the central space that doesn't occupy their mates. If adults aren't able to allow spaces to be equally distributed, to be treated equally, we are perpetuating the models we condemn; not the teaching professionals, not the teachers and the teachers, society. I want to end up taking as my own example the Lilas Gafas Association, which, in our opinion, helps us to understand what we are talking about. Would anyone understand that the white children were forced into the cola to wear square pants and the black children were forced to wear circle pants? A priori would look like an animal life. So why would we tolerate that with a sex difference? As Maria Joseph Silvar says in his concerts, SES, this technique is a good way to clarify perfectly when we face machismo; in which we all fall — not a part, but all of us — the first, I, the whole society, because it is the society in which we live. When we have doubts about whether a concrete fact responds to machismo, let's change the word woman for black. If what happens to us violent, the answer is clear, it's machismo. Let the girls, for their sakes, have to go to school with skirts or clothes; if they get out, they hear: you're beautiful! we're still perpetuating a machist society. Today we have a chance to take a little step...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u198	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u199	...the opportunity to tell the children of this country that we are with them, that we are on the path to equality. That won't change everything tomorrow, it's true. [[Murmurs.]] Why we change the school uniform isn't going to change everything tomorrow, but we're working so that they're finally the same as their peers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u200	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u201	We're working so they can always be what they want. For them to be, ultimately, free women.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. At the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and eight other Members, on the requirement by the Government of Greece to the councils of Ferrol and Pontevedra for the implementation of the procedures necessary for the implementation, as soon as possible, of the urban transport service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u203	There are amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[Murmurs.]] What happened? Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, it's nothing transcendent. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, that's it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If it's nothing transcendent, we'll go on. [[Murmurs.]] So, do I start reading the proposition again or...? Did you understand what I was going to do? [[Assentment.]] So there are two amendments, one from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u204	To formulate the proposal not of law, Mr. Moreira has the floor. We have to blow the bell from time to time, otherwise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u205	Thank you, Mr. President. After listening to En Marea's spokesman, we wouldn't be surprised that the following proposal had been proposed as Olympic sport, for example, to break out night mirrors in Santiago de Compostela. [[Applause]] We have brought this proposal to claim to two Galician municipalities, to the Council of Ferrol and to the Council of Pontevedra, nothing more and nothing less than a law of the year 1985, a law 33 years ago, the Law regulating the bases of local regime, which states in its article 26 that municipalities of more than 50,000 inhabitants must, in any case, provide the urban transport service of travellers. [[Murmurs.]] It is a legal obligation, then reiterated in the Law of Local Administration of Galicia, in Law 5/1997, where virtually the same literal content of the Law of Local Regime bases is repeated. And there are two municipalities, two cities in Galicia, Ferrol and Pontevedra, which thirty-three years later do not meet this legal obligation. I would also like to refer to another German law, Law 6/1996, on the coordination of urban and interurban transport services, which is a law that pursues and seeks to coordinate the competences of the various public administrations in the field of public passenger transport, to avoid distortions in the management of public transport and in order to address public interest in general. In particular, what is sought is to solve the frequent interference and coincidences between public interurban transport services, which necessarily penetrate the expanding urban cores. In addition to this law, in its explanatory statement, it must be applied to the assumptions in which the establishment or extension of urban transport affects previously established interurban services. But we're not in this case, it's not the case of this law, because the situation in these two cities is very far from that, since we are currently in the process of developing a new Public Transport Plan in Galicia, which is what it is about to create a new concessional map, and therefore this is the right time for these two cities to put in place this urban public transport, so that it can be coordinated with the new concessions that are being prepared in that plan in the second phase. So, after reading these laws, there is no doubt about the legal obligation imposed on municipalities of more than 50,000 inhabitants, not only by state basic legislation, but also by autonomous legislation. And, as I have just said, it is precisely right now, this is the most suitable one, to establish urban public transport services by ensuring, in any case, the necessary coordination of these with the new concessional map. I also want to make reference to what the municipalities and cities of Galicia spend on public transport. The city of Ourense spends 6.9 million euros a year; Lugo, 2.2 million; Santiago, around 5 million euros; La Coruña, 9 million; Vigo, 14.7 million; Ferrol, less than 300,000 euros; and Pontevedra, 86,000 euros — of which, of course, only execute 46.000—. So it is clear that the difference between the service that some cities provide and the service they provide to others, when they are all Greek citizens who pay their taxes and they should all be entitled — and, in fact, they are entitled — to that urban transport service. In the case of Ferrol, he lacks this urban public transport service, and last year, when he finished granting the current lines, he had the opportunity to assume them, but the municipal government did not. And the Ferrol Town Hall should be committed to reactivating those lines that have remained deserted and that in the city are demanded by most neighbors; as are, for example, the line to San Felipe, the line to the Naval Hospital, the line to the Old Ferrol, and also to establish a greater number of lines in rural areas. It has to be said that the Ferrol Council is committed to the Metropolitan Transport Plan powered by the Galician Union; a plan that was launched in 2005, to which two more municipalities were added later in 2010, and which today serves the 11-town neighbours. In the last year, in 2017, there was an increase in the number of trips around 2%. And of the total steps taken during the last year, 2017, 82% of the trips correspond to cancellations made with the Galician Metro Card. What does that mean? That has a high impact, that has a great acceptance of the use of the metropolitan card. It is therefore profitable in social terms for the use and implementation of public transport, which has therefore led to an increase in the use of public transport. This is a social plan in which the United States contributes to 80%, the Town Hall places 20%, and the Government of Greece contributes to the bonus of 100 percent of the transfers, with additional discounts to the usual users and numerous families, and in addition to the free New People's Card, which means that those under 19 years of age travel free of charge thanks to this card. Pontevedra's case is notoriously worse because Pontevedra doesn't have urban transport, but it's not even attached to metropolitan transport or wants to do so. Of course, we must highlight the institutional disloyalty attitude of the Pontevedra Council, which is trying to boycott the implementation of this metropolitan transport and is thus preventing not only the neighbours of Pontevedra, but the other ten municipalities, the possibility that their neighbours under 19 years of age may benefit from the free transport. Therefore, the only discorting note that was made manifest at the meetings with all these councils was put by the Pontevedra Council, which was the only one who transferred doubts to the draft of the text of the convention, so it was also the only one with which the Galician Council held meetings to try to explain it, and also if it tried to explain to them that the transport line that goes to Monte Porreiro will not suffer an increase in cost for users. In short, today's absence of urban transport and the attitude I think selfish of the Pontevedra Town Hall is depriving its neighbours and the other twelve municipalities of being able to enjoy the advantages of the Galician Metropolitan Transport Plan. In any case, we are convinced that since the Government of Greece will continue to work to promote the Metropolitan Transport Plan in areas where it is not yet implemented, as I have just said about Pontevedra, and this is proof of this is the game collected in the budgets that are being processed in this House for 2019, which are established for the Metropolitan Transport Plan a total of 10.5 million euros, and which, therefore, will allow itself to extend to this area of Pontevedra, if it is the work of the Pontevedra Council to provide this service. So, first of all, considering — as you have said — that this is the time which has come because we are developing a complete planning of road transport concessions, the second phase of the Galician Public Transport Plan that is developing the Union, we bring to debate this non-legislative proposal so that, both the Ferrol Council and the Pontevedra Council, the only large cities of Galicia that still have no urban transport, to which they are bound by law, give their neighbours an urban transport service, because it is also their responsibility and also their obligation. On the amendments, we're going to wait for them to be exposed and next time we're going to pronounce ourselves, because the truth is we're looking forward, especially because of the explanation of the amendment from the BNG, a amendment that we could qualify as a procastine amendment, because what it is about -- it seems to be, the spokesman of the BNG will explain to us -- is to defer entry into the application of urban transport, and therefore to prevent the neighbours who have the right and the possibility to use urban public transport in their city, and in the cities and villages that are near, metropolitan transport. We therefore await support for this proposal and we will also wait for the explanation of the amendments that are tabled. For the moment, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u206	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u207	I made the other day the promise never to say the word procasting, but Mr. Moreira seems to compel me to say it. Mr. Moreira, this is a proposal that I would call Zumosol, proposed Zumosol. Now the Zumosol season will begin in Parliament, because the People's Party of the Cities, in this case of Ferrol and Pontevedra, joins its cousin of Zumosol of Parliament to oppose the cities where they are in the opposition. But of course, in this case, Mr. Moreira, you don't make cousin of Zumosol, you came here [to make cousin]. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Words withdrawn by Mr Bará Torres]] I don't know if he misses his time as spokesperson for the People's Party in the Plenty of Pontevedra, since he was defensed from this post, and wants to come back here to bring the debates of the Plenty of Pontevedra. The PP aims to use Parliament to campaign in the municipalities, to use Parliament as an ariet... well, as ariet, no, like gharabullo, to attack the municipal governments of the cities, legitimate governments that have their own debates within municipal autonomy. [[Applause]] It seems to us, of course, a demonstration of weakness, frustration, weakness and inability to oppose the cities that have to bring here the initiatives to turn Parliament into that gharabullo, and to Junta, to attack the municipalities that have their governments legitimally... Look, if you want ideas, I suggest you read a text that I use a lot as a header book, which is in Galicia, yes, I don't know if you're alone. Well, there you make proposals on public transport. For example, a new mobility law. What are they waiting for? Make a mobility law. Plan Renovate from bus stations. Make a new plan of bus stations, which have mixed shares in budgets in recent years. Smart payment systems, what are they waiting for? Make a non-law proposal for smart payment systems. One single ticket, another idea that I leave you here for you to pass. Direct ticket. This one really likes me very much, and I encourage you, Mr. Moreira, who lives in Pontevedra and wants to work for Pontevedra, we will push the final deployment of the integrated bus ticket plus bus, and bus more bus, which allows a user to arrive, for example, from Pontevedra to Peinador with a single ticket, thus bringing our airports closer to large cities. Go ahead with this initiative! If you want ideas, here they are. In Galicia, if it's a book I recommend they read and use in their proposals, because it seems they wrote it one day but they never do. They're dedicated to serious governance, solving Galician and people's problems, and letting others rule. By the way, let them rule, in the case of Pontevedra, a government that is developing a compact, coherent and dynamic city model that is a global reference. They don't finish or they don't want to know it's a world reference. Stop setting traps and weights as they've been doing all these twenty years, so people have sent them to the opposition, sent them to you to the opposition in Pontevedra, Mr. Moreira. You talk to us here about a law of the year 1985. But if you were ruling fourteen years, from 1985 to 1999, what were you waiting for to make that wonderful public transport? All that happened to you was the bright and happy idea of putting the free bus in Pontevedra. Mr. Pedrosa, in the last term of the People's Party, paid with public funds a free bus from the Town Hall square to the Audience. You know what happened? That they had to shut down the stretcher because the bus was going and two more friends were going to keep him company, because people didn't use it, even if it was free, because there's no distance, because it's a compact city and because in the city center the bus, Mr. Moreira, doesn't just come across. They've been around the famous Metropolitan Transport Plan in Pontevedra for ten years since June, by the way, and also in Ourense, and you haven't spoken here about Ourense. Look, 2011, Mr. Feijóo: "In three months we will launch the metropolitan transport of Ourense." He promised him again in 2015: "Faijóo and the mayor of Ourense agree to speed up the metropolitan transport plan." We're in 2018 and they're still waiting in Ourense for metropolitan transport. Look at Ourense too, don't just look at Pontevedra, what obsession they have with Pontevedra! The mayor of Pontevedra—and in that sense our amendment goes—which I propose to the chairman of the board of Gaulza at a meeting, and also to the advisor, was to do a serious analysis and study of the transport situation in Pontevedra and its area, relating urban transport to metropolitan transport. There are many current concessions of metropolitan and interurban transport that are urban concessions, for example Montecelo, Campus or Monte Porreiro, are interurban lines, have been granted by the governments of the People's Party over these decades. All this has to be analyzed, the Town Hall itself offered to pay for this study and to coordinate with the Board to find a global solution to that problem. That is what we propose in our initiative, a bilateral technical commission and then a public transport table which, given that the future of public transport is now being analysed in Galicia and in Pontevedra, is working seriously and seeking solutions to this problem. And I'm done, telling them that what they're trying to do with these initiatives is to divert attention from the ability of the Union to solve the gigantic mess they have with the concessions — that's the real problem — and to create a modern public transport system of the 21st century, because you're still in the 20th century, and try to hide with these proposals their shames, their incapacity in the Government of the United States and their inability to oppose the cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u208	Thank you, Mr Bará. One question, Mr Bará. That's the point, the two of Pontevedra, to do the cousin. No one here makes the cousin, we can take him out. It doesn't look so good, we're gonna take it off. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows his deal.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u209	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, when I saw the non-legislative proposal presented by the People's Party, I was about to say, well, making a fuss of political wit, you might think it's an initiative with certain electoral connotations. When I saw that instead of going out Mr. Fernández Prado, the usual infrastructure spokesman, Mr. Moreira went out, he dissipated me all doubt. I mean, it's not necessary to apply Ockham's knife, the simplest explanation is the most likely, it's an election initiative, such clear issues! [[Applause]] I mean, you come here to talk about the urban transport of Ourense -- sorry, about Ourense I'll talk about within a moment, about Pontevedra and about Ferrol -- and you got to understand me, the things as they are, because seeing here the People's Party defending the enforcement of the law is really meritorious. It's the same thing they do, for example, when it comes to meeting the Media Act or when we bring here an initiative to approve the Road Map, which is also in the law. They then vote against it, but here, as it is an issue that they are interested in... making use of, of course, the Law of Local Regime bases to which you referred, in Article 26.1d, for municipalities greater than 50,000 inhabitants, it is mandatory to provide that service. We should also open a debate on how it is possible that since we are in the law, that forecast is not met after so many years. Of course, I agree with you that this would have to be analyzed. But look, he told you here that you could also include the council of Ourense, which has welcomed sine die the deployment of metropolitan transport, and also the mayor of Ourense, who seems unable to approve any budget, says he personally — and thus appears in the press of January 26 this year — of the inability to put metropolitan transport into operation, because he says he needs to link it to the process of the new adjudication of the municipal service. And that comes to reinforce what we propose in this amendment: that is, to coordinate these municipalities with the Council of Galicia so that the urban transport that should be put in place, and metropolitan transport, will work perfectly. And why is that? I do not think we have revealed anything if we say that in the case of Pontevedra Town Hall, which has approximately – Mr Bará will correct me if I am very wrong – some 80,000 inhabitants, of which 23,000 live in rural parishes, have a certain urban continuity with Poio, or with a part of Poio Town Hall, as well as with Marín, and therefore it seems appropriate that this urban transport should extend to these two municipalities. More obvious is the case of Ferrol, who has an urban continuity with the municipalities of Naron, Neda and Fene, and eventually also with Mugardos and Ares. By the way, how did you not worry about the urban transport of the county of Ferrol when Mr Varela was mayor today, King Varela? Because reality was the same, but obviously his concern seemed to be different. That is why we amend what we understand is that we must urge the Council of Galicia to develop that coordination to which I referred before, in order to ensure that, considering the metropolitan areas — although they have made some reference — of both cities, the urban and metropolitan transport services are set together as an efficient service for all citizenship. In any case, we will support this non-law proposal. We believe that our amendment improves the proposal brought by the People's Party because both services must be coordinated. But anyway, we're going to approve it. Moreover, I insist that we, the difference between the People's Party, defend that what is published in the laws is effectively complied with and not that it is left to interpretation and that it must come to Parliament in Galicia, in this case, initiatives to urge the Union, in turn, to urge compliance with the rules. But we would also like very much that, when we come up with an initiative to urge compliance with the regulations that are published and approved by the Galician Union, if we are also approved by the People's Party. It would be a really nice and certainly understandable thing for pro quo. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u210	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u211	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. As the spokespersons of the BNG and the PSOE have already commented, today the People's Party brings another electoral initiative. He'll use the Galician Parliament again for a municipal campaign. We have already told you this in other initiatives because this is already too common on the part of the People's Party, to bring initiatives to this Parliament that do not defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks but only defend their electoral interests. We can understand the frustration of the People's Party, being a minority minority in the cities of Greece and standing in line as to what it has to do with ruling in the cities of Galicia, because they only rule in one of the seven cities of Galicia, which is that of Ourense, which is in addition the only city that is unable to approve a single budget in which it is about legislation, showing the inefficiency and ineffectiveness of the People's Party in the only Government that has in the cities and its inability to reach agreements. We understand that they are frustrated in this situation in the cities and we understand that they are frustrated that The Tides govern in three of these seven cities. We understand perfectly their frustration, from a minority minority situation in the cities of Galicia, because we rule in three of these seven cities, because, as Mr. Tellado says, "we could" — but "we could" — dislodge the People's Party of Compostela, the Coruña and Ferrol and we can rule in three cities, which you cannot. But all this is not justifiable for anything that brings initiatives to this Parliament to campaign because this Parliament is not meant for that, you are not paid for that and you have not been elected for that. In Galicia, there is a need for a lot of mobility, there is a need for improvements in public transport in matters that are within the competence of the Galician Union. But you never bring initiatives to urge the Galician Union to make all these improvements that would be useful initiatives for the Greeks and for the Greeks. You start your explanatory statement—it's the only moment I'm going to mention your initiative because I'm not going to collaborate with you in your election campaign—saying, "in recent years, from the German Government, you've been betting hard on initiatives aimed at facilitating and making everyday movements of the Greeks easier and more cost-effective." What a cheap demagogy! Because all you guys are doing in these years is going in a totally contrary direction to this statement. Initiatives should be brought to this Parliament to bring the Galician Union out of its paralysis and immobility with regard to transport and mobility. To make the moves easier and more economical, which is what you think this initiative is for, you should ask the Galician Board to get the MOVE Plan out of the box, because it's been a long time in a drawer and doesn't give it away, and it's fundamental to making the easiest and most economical moves. They could also bring an initiative to get the Galician board to get the Road Director Plan out of its drawer, which would also favour easier and more economical travel. And they could also urge the Galician Union or support our group's proposal to set up the Transport Bureau to get away from the Galician Transport Plan; a real failure and a genuine disincentive since the whole of the transport plan started. You could bring initiatives so that the Galician Union will be able to budget the intermodals of the different cities. And they also stop campaigning with lies in the Coruña and have budgets at the Coruña intermodal, among others. You could bring initiatives for the Government of the State to recover the lack of investments that the 6-7 years of the People's Party on Development ceased to apply in Galicia, to get rid of the abandonment of the railway in Galicia and to be able to connect, for example, the ports to the railway network. You could also bring this House an initiative so that the Galician Council can study to drive a nearby transport on the Galician railway, which, of course, would make travel easier and more cost-effective. And if you're also so interested in bus transportation and transport that you have to do with Pontevedra, I don't know if you know how much a bus ticket from Pontevedra to Lalin costs. Well, it costs 6.8 euros. Much more expensive per kilometer than communities, for example, like Madrid, like Catalonia and Andalusia, three communities governed by different parties. Why don't you apply there, where if you have a direct capacity, what do you tell the municipalities that they have to do? We, in our budgets, have introduced different proposals that go on this line, in order to achieve easier and more economical movements, as a feasibility study of AP-9's public rescue. Why do you refuse to do this? Because they have no interest, of course, in the easiest and most economical displacements. We also proposed the establishment of a nearby train in Galicia, improvements in stops at bus stations, the creation of the German transport company, or, as I told you earlier, the increase in resources for intermodals, and you rejected them all at all. I'm done, Mr. President. They bring initiatives to this Parliament to improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks and stop running municipal campaigns in this House. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u212	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Before we close this non-law proposal, we greet the students and the fifth and sixth primary students of the College of St. Pius X, of Ourense. Good afternoon to Ourense, of course. And, no more — yes now — the proposed group has the floor, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u213	Thank you, Mr. President. We also greet students and teachers at school. And we also use it to see and remember that the Government of Galician Union promotes equality in Galician schools. [[Applause]] As for the amendments, Mr. Álvarez, I told him it was good to be exposed. And about the Socialist Party, I tell you that we're going to accept it, and then they keep saying that we're on our knees and that we don't accept the opposition proposals. We're going to accept it, why? Because by adding it to the original text of the GNP it is to reinforce that one of the objectives pursued by the Galician Public Transport Plan is to seek the coordination of urban or urban transport services to make a better service to citizenship. And as you have said and defended from this parliamentary group, we believe that this is precisely the most appropriate time to achieve this coordination between urban and metropolitan transport, so we now bring this initiative. You were asking me why when you ruled the People's Party in Ferrol you didn't. You know it perfectly, because there were concessions in force and new concessions could not be put in place that competed with these concessions because there were services acquired. But last year — as you know — these concessions were released by a court ruling, so that was the time, if there was a desire to implement urban transport, to assume those existing lines and improve them by the Council of Ferrol, and the same by the Council of Pontevedra. That's why he didn't do it, Mr. Álvarez. [[Applause]] And now we go with Mr Bara, Che Bara, as they say. Mr Bará is exiled to the Galician Parliament. He was a conch in Pontevedra, he was taken from his wallet, and he's a conch with no wallet. Well, they gave him a witness to say he's got something. And you, however, do not leave the record. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] It's just that you don't pick up the indirects, Mr. Bará. [[Murmurs.]] Don't you realize they want to clean it up from there? [[Applause]] Don't get them, but good. [[Applause]] And tell me we're bringing local initiatives? Look, Mr Bará, then I grew up because you brought here a local initiative like the Commission of the Marshal. It's true that you're contradicting yourselves. What they're looking for are excuses, let's see it when they planted the Junta of Galicia, at the meeting last July 27th, with excuses as pilgrimage as Pontevedra, careful!, needs a transport other than the others. Home!, it's a model that's working in all the cities, the metropolitan transport, but the gentlemen of the BNG in Pontevedra aren't worth it. It must not be too complicated for Pontevedra if it works in Coruña, Lugo, Ourense and Ferrol. You really don't understand them, what you are looking for is an excuse because what you want are commissions to postpone — so I say procrastinate — the deployment of transport. They seek bilateral commissions but do not explain what bilateral commissions are for; they are supposed to be for transport but do not explain it in the amendment, and what they want is to postpone this as much as possible. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] Of course, working and BNG are incompatible concepts. And you say: you have to put urban transport and, puff!, that means working, let's get together! [[Protests.]] Of course, Junta is already reforming the Benito Corbal building, with sanitation, keeping it clean and going to extend the debugger. Everything I do to Join! To the BNG it's about working... it's not going with you! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You live very comfortable in inoperence, don't do anything and think things will get fixed. And what they're doing is depriving neighborhoods of eleven municipalities in the area of public transport. It is inconceivable that in this century there is a politician who can oppose public transport. It's just that this is happening out of here and nobody understands it, Mr. Bara. How is it possible that anyone opposes public transport? [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I can tell you that this proposal is going to be approved and we know it will be fulfilled. If not now, it will be next year, when they take possession of the new mayors. I'm convinced and I'm sure the new mayors will launch this urban transport to the neighbours of Ferrol and Pontevedra. [[Murmurs.]] But do you know why, Mr. Bará? [[Applause]] I know, we all know, because they're going to be mayors of the People's Party, so they're going to do it. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u214	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Luis Villares Naveira and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to protect victims of gender-based violence, minors and witnesses in the judicial units
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u215	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u216	Mr. Villares has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u217	Good afternoon and thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. This morning Counsellor Rueda explained a number of measures — some already existing and others to be implemented — in the development of the State Covenant against Gender Violence as necessary as fair, which always need to be accompanied by sufficient resources. We proposed, on the other hand, increasing them this same week, on yesterday's agenda, with our amendment to the whole and they were, as you know, rejected by the majority of the people. This situation does not make us give up on initiatives that improve the attention of the victims of gender-based violence, understood by this and understood by them in a broad sense which is already in law today. I mean, she's not only the victim of abuse or violence in any of her forms, but also her younger children and daughters. This initiative therefore leads us to deal with a specific aspect of institutional intervention in cases of gender-based violence. We're talking about the judicial facilities, which were not treated in the intervention of the vice president this morning, rather than with a little mention of the replica shift and simply of the past, to say that it was a matter where you were going to work. So it is in this highly relevant and complementary case of the intervention that took place this morning. In fact, the judges are the places where there are fundamental moments of the reaction process against male violence. It takes place in the courtrooms to denounce it on numerous occasions and, in any case, to ratify it at the judicial level. Relevant information should be obtained from reporting persons under any procedural condition. The investigation takes place of the fact, the exploration of the victim, the material realization—i.e. whether or not the rights granted to the victims in the letters and in the various laws in force—and, finally, the development of the process with all guarantees are effective. For this reason, for us to pay full attention to the judicial spaces, so that they are true spaces of guarantees, of security and of trust, it is a material requirement of the realization of the rights recognized to the victims, so that what is written on the paper is not wet paper. Inadequate facilities cause negative adverse effects on the criminal and social process of exiting the vicious circle of gender violence. We are talking, for example, about the fortunate encounter — which is sometimes not fortunate — it is fortunate but certainly predictable — between the victim and the aggressor in the judicial facilities, in the same corridor, at the same entrance of the building, on the same stairs, which sometimes causes a feeling of fear, fear, insecurity and panic at that moment that may occur, even if it does not always happen. Secondly, the space competition in the same room between the victim and the aggressor on the occasion of the hearing of the trial, without physical elements that guarantee minimal visual protection, which causes coercion and co-ordination in ratifying and explaining the situation of humiliation and violence to which he has been subjected, in character prior to the complaint, the victim who will at that time declare on his ill-treatment. Thirdly, the coincidence in the same facilities also returns the especially rough fact to the public when it comes to, in the case of minors, the minor victims of violence, because in this case the ability to coerce the aggressor's progenitor over the minor is infinitely greater by the ascendant he exercises over the victim and conditions, sometimes fatally, the development of the procedure. This situation also leads to a clear second victimization of women and children, an unnecessary suffering that can be avoided by fulfilling a cross-cutting institutional commitment of what, as we see, judicial facilities cannot be absent. In fact, secondary victimization, as Beristain recalls, as a form of institutional violence refers to the ill or inadequate attention that the victim receives once comes into contact with the justice system. In this case, we are talking about a secondary victimization consisting of psychological, social, legal or economic damages that occur at a time after the crime, for example, the fact of making different statements and explaining the facts reviving the situation of violence suffered. With this concept, we can also see that an important part of revitalization is the result of bad or inappropriate practices that come from institutions, of which judicial facilities are part, as well as those actions that show good discrimination, or an impediment or an obstacle for women to exercise their rights. We are, of course, talking about rights that are collected in laws and that are not always effective. In this case, the problem has been raised, the question that needs to be resolved is how to deal with it. There are two normative reference contexts which must be implemented without delay. First of all, the legal status of the victim of the crime and, secondly, the regulations of the Ministry of the Interior on the so-called security block of the judicial facilities. There is also a political context, of what was said this morning, which is the State Covenant against Violence against Women, which contains explicit prescriptions on judicial facilities and what their form must be. Both normative indications and this political indication have an architectural, spatial and technological correlation which is synthesized in the following characteristics: First of all, the need for a part of the facilities of each judicial building to ensure the safe and unmixed transfer, from outside and within the units to the viewing room, of the detained persons, without mixing with the rest of the citizens who use the facilities, which necessarily includes separate waiting units for detained persons and direct access to the rooms without passing through common stays. Secondly, the packaging of waiting rooms for complainants and witnesses separated from the set of persons who used the judges. Third, the conditioning of judicial facilities for the adaptation of waiting spaces to the declaration of minors. Fourthly, the technical conditioning of the judges for the provision of reporting rooms by videoconferencing system that allows the interaction with the room where the report of the complainant is made, without the need for direct visual confrontation, even without the need to be in the same space. And finally, the availability of elements that prevent the visual confrontation between the victim and the aggressor. In view of this context, we now need to ask ourselves whether all the judicial facilities in Galicia are adapted to these requirements, in some cases already old legally, such as the prescriptions of the Ministry of the Interior, which are already of the 1990s. The response to today, in 2018, remains in many negative cases. As they have denounced on numerous occasions different professionals — we are now in charge of the psychosocial services of the Immelga — the first structural shortage — although we use to make the complaint and the demand again — is that Lugo and Ourense do not yet have exclusive judgments in the area of violence against women. Having said this in general terms, going city by city, in the city of Ourense, and literally transcribing opinions from a legal operator, from a lawyer specialized in violence about the woman: "The room to talk to the victim is not well conditioned, has a table and two chairs and is already stuck on the second floor where the officials are, and here is where the victims are declared in front of all the officers of Instruction 3. There are no biombos and no infrastructures suitable for minors to report by videoconference in the building itself." By making a wild technique, you would have to comment that at this moment there is only a specific reporting room for minors in Ourense, not specifically hosted for cases of violence, but also used for that on some occasions. We should move forward in this case in multifunctionality in the rest of the cities and villages. As a waiting room, something that provides for the specific law itself for minors, there is only one in Pontevedra, which is certainly equipped — as they themselves point out — with toys and educational resources brought up by their own officials — "I believe that they make them more welcoming and contribute to creating a climate of rest for the child when they access the judicial units." In Pontevedra they are under arrest with the construction of the new building, but unfortunately, they did not consult with the psychosocial services of the Immelga for the design of the infrastructure, although, of course, we do not lose hope that the regulations will be observed. A similar situation to which it is reported in other construction facilities, as in Vigo. In Ferrol, complaints about installations are widespread in which gender-based violence refers, both to places of waiting, common on many occasions for victims, aggressors and witnesses. Even as legal operators report, in cities where separate physical units exist, safety measures related to legislation are not always complied with. I remember, in particular, still well-intentioned but insufficient waiting room for victims of violence at Instruction 3 in Lugo, which was simply a room of judicial archives and records which was enabled as a room among the numerous archivers so that the victims could not cross with their aggressors. If this happens in cities like this, we imagine in the villages, in the courts of our country's villages; complaints are even more widespread because of the insufficient supply of infrastructure, although many of them have already been built in the 1990s, when the regulations on the security block are finally passed. For all this, from En Marea we believe that it is necessary to agree on an unconditional commitment in the following sense — which was also widely formulated in order to seek an agreement between all groups — in three parts: First, reform the existing judicial facilities in our country so that they contain separate units, so that complainants and minors, denounced and family members do not cross. Secondly, to facilitate videoconferencing from attached rooms in the case of complainants. We are faced with the paradoxical situation that videoconferences can be made from trial or trial to other locations, but that cannot be done within the judicial building itself, and that is something that, technologically, should certainly have an easy solution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u218	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u219	"I'm done." And thirdly, to enable waiting dependencies for minors in the facilities, appropriate to their status as minors and where they can obtain judicial statements at once avoiding double or triple legal declaration of minors in the criminal proceedings, especially in cases of violence against women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. Mrs Rodríguez Barreira has the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u221	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mr Villares, you say that you do not give up on initiatives, but you are systematically presenting yourself to this possibility. And I'm saying this because this initiative that you bring here today in Marea is a literal copy of what has been discussed in the Commission on October 3, 2018. This leads us to think that they simply cover the process of presenting in this plenary an initiative on gender-based violence, reiterating a proposal already debated just a few days ago. We agree with the convenience of reforming judicial headquarters, agree with the convenience of providing separate rooms for women victims of gender-based violence, as well as providing adequate units for minors. And we understand this because it is necessary to avoid this new victimization of women, it is necessary to avoid the intimidation to which they may be subjected, even by visual intimidation of their aggressors, which can lead them not only to withdraw their complaints but even to declare not out of fear. And we also understand that we need to look for suitable environments, nice environments for children before their statements or their explorations. Well, but what we've been saying and saying in our amendments to these two issues, is that this has to be done according to the capacities of the judicial infrastructure. Of course, there are judges who have spaces that allow easy adaptation and staffing, the ability of these spaces -- and here I would like to remember and express the work, professionalism and sensitivity of so many lawyers, prosecutors, judicial officials and also members of state forces and security bodies -- that every day they do not favor these situations of tension or confrontation between victims and their aggressors -- but of course there are other judges who do not favor these actions because of their degree of occupation or even their configuration. And we understand that there is a need to resort to other mechanisms as well as to involve the judicial authority, for what? For organisational measures to be taken, how can it be to ensure that citations are made at different times to victims and aggressors? What we want to see is that the content of our amendment, since we all agree that it is necessary to equip these separate rooms, of course it depends on this element of the capabilities of each infrastructure. And this is the content of our amendment. You have already voted in favour of it, all groups. And, in fact, we have reached unanimous agreements both in full and in committee on this issue by incorporating this particularity. Then we don't understand that this is what bothers you with the amendment we tabled today and that has already led them to the last commission, in October, to reject it, when it incorporates an element that you yourself have voted in favour. They also ask you to facilitate the videoconferencing statement. We agree that video conferencing should be recognized as a basic service available also in these cases, of course, of gender-based violence. But we're going beyond that in our amendment because we demand that modernisation and technological developments be carried out. Why? Because we understand that there are other mechanisms, such as recording mechanisms, which can serve to prevent victims from having to repeat their statements; which can even serve to prevent them from having to attend trials where their presence is not essential. Here too, we ask you, what does this amendment not seem good to you, this particular point where we are going a step further than you propose on your initiative? Well, we, ladies and gentlemen, are here repeating a debate that is not even justified in the inaction of the government. And I say this because this morning the vice president realized, precisely... not as you said, Mr. Villares, that it was a matter where he was going to work, no, no, he said it was that they were enabling separate rooms, in big cities, but also in smaller towns, that I won't report to him now because I don't have time, but that there are villages like Bande, Orders and others where these separate rooms are being enabled to care for or to wait for women victims of violence. Gesell rooms, which are also being enabled in Ourense and Santiago, precisely so that the victims, the minors, may be subjected to exploration or the statement in a different room to which the judge is transferring the questions to him. So at this point, we understand that there are two options to understand the repetition of this debate: a first option, if they refuse our amendment, what will show is that they only pursue this initiative through the process of presenting an initiative on gender-based violence in this plenary, repeating a proposal and a debate that has already been held, with the sole aim of drawing political evidence. The other option, Mr. Villares, if you accept our amendment, is that you really had a constructive desire to promote another unanimous agreement on this issue, in which we have already adopted unanimous agreements before and, therefore, would show a real concern for working for the greatest protection...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u222	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u223	...and the highest safety of the victims at the judicial headquarters. And it's over, Your Honor. I, Mr. Villares, am sure that your choice will be the second and that they will agree with us in further promoting that greater protection and security of victims of gender-based violence in the judicial headquarters. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u224	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u225	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. We will support this initiative, as we have done on other occasions. In fact, as the spokesperson for the People's Party now pointed out, this is a debate that has already been raised on more than one occasion within this House and, of course, we have reached agreements around it in this plenary. More than a year ago, we were reminded of that motion that prompted the Galician Nationalist Block in January 2017 and that culminated with that great agreement unanimously adopted within this House, which included improvements and means, both human and economic resources, that were to come closer to the judicial field and that were realized in a series of points that had to be dealt with, among other issues, with the improvement of infrastructure and with the guarantee of a fundamental right, because, after all, what we are talking about is that we are not guaranteeing a fundamental right for all the judges in our country that all people have, and in particular women who are in a situation of male violence. I really wanted to say something because repeatedly, every time this debate is opened, we are talking about the limitations of infrastructure and the limitations of the ability to intervene and to act on the guarantee and on that right. And we believe — and we say it — that we must act decisively, and that if all the political forces and if all the people represented here in this House we agree that it is not acceptable that in full 2018, with everything that has been advanced in the regulatory framework and in the legal framework of our country, that they are being violated in cities or villages or in small localities those fundamental rights that women are in a situation of masculine violence in the judicial field, it is also true that it is time to move more of the discourse to the facts and put economic resources, material resources, human resources and take all the measures they have, both the Galiza Union and the Government of the Spanish State, which also have responsibilities in this area. We continue to advocate that it is necessary to move from discourses to facts, that we have to encourage the real and effective fulfilment of those laws and that, therefore, to guarantee the exercise of the rights that these women have. And we will vote — I insist — in favour of the way we have done on other occasions. It is also true — we have said it since the BNG in the morning, with the cock of the audience of Vice President of the Union — that it is necessary to go further. We need to be more ambitious. And we insist again, we cannot say it more clearly, but what we consider to be absolutely central is that within this Vice-Presidentship, within the area of the Government of Galicia which carries or develops jurisdictions in judicial matters, it is necessary to create a specific unit in the field of macho violence. First, to ensure that the real and effective compliance with the laws has to do with the adequacy of spaces, indeed, but also, above all, in the formation of legal operators. And there is also a question that we have defended many times in this House and that we believe that it cannot continue to delay in time, which is the creation of these specific judgments in all cities in our country, both in Lugo and in Ourense, and start spreading, developing, the public services in our country, also adjusting to the social reality, demographic reality and population reality that we have in our country. People's reality is that it's often impossible, because of a question of demography, that these ratios are achieved, but what can't be prevented from women's access to a specific service such as those tried in Lugo and Ourense, because we have the possibility — and so on, the law contemplates it if there was political will — to comarchize those judged. I insist that we support this initiative, but we also want to leave on the table that we need to go further, be more ambitious. Galicia has historically been the vanguard in the struggle, the prevention and the fight against male violence, and we believe that measures must be put on the table so that we can continue to move forward in the same way as we have done so far. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u226	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u227	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all Members and Members. Perhaps every intervention would be necessary to begin with the number of dead, murdered women and their children. Since we have official data, in 2013, 972 women have been murdered and 27 children and children. And what we've been doing since 2018, in Spain, is 44 women murdered, 3 children and girls. And in Galicia 3 in total, 2 women and a son. It's data from the Vice President's website this very morning. To avoid precisely this kind of thing is what this initiative is about, and since awareness is fundamental, I'm going to tell you a story that's not a story because it's real life. A 20-year-old girl goes to the police station to file a complaint against her partner, who is the father of her little daughter. He says he abused psychologically. Go alone, he has just thrown them from his apartment, from the floor where the three lived, and she has to leave the child with her mother. The complaint has little more than half a rail. The cops quote the reported man. Go with a lawyer, of course. He denies any kind of abuse and the matter goes to the guard's trial. They're both quoted for the next day. She goes back alone and leaves the girl with her grandmother, where would she leave her, that in the trial there is no place? He'll be half an hour later. There are no physical separations, there are separations in time to avoid, precisely, crossing them, because there is no place to place each of them separately. And when the lawyer reads her complaint and asks her questions, she says she's afraid, that she threatens to take away her daughter's custody and wants an order of protection. This is repeated because that's what all the victims who arrive at the trial end up asking for. The lawyer is aware that there will be no order of protection with this rickithic complaint and it is likely that the entire procedure is archived, so he tries to go inquiring — no work that lawyers sometimes do as a family-psychologist — about the facts, and he discovers that there is a lot more and that there is even a witness who might be able to make a statement. But when this girl makes a statement to the judge and the prosecutor, all she can do is cry, she can't answer anything they ask. The time is coming for the complainant's statement, and what the prosecutor and the judge do is say goodbye to this girl and quote her for the next day. One cannot depend on the goodwill and mercy of the people, and that is precisely what this initiative brings about in Marea and that we will support. It's about the last link in jail before reaching those 44 women murdered in Spain. Getting to the criminal trial has to be the last one, but we need the one before, because if we don't get back to more murdered women. In the criminal proceedings, in any case, the fight against violence and the treatment of victims must be inexcusable, it is something that we have to worry about. It seems very basic, but last week the General Council of the Judiciary ends a Guide of good practices for judges and judges who are of pergrulum, of absolute pergrulum, precisely to avoid a second victimization in the courts, to try to get women to feel accompanied and perceive—and intercommit it because it is so literally— "sensitivity" and not "indifference" by representatives of the legal system. Well, this non-law proposition goes precisely that, separate dependencies, videoconferencing appearances from attached rooms and appropriate dependencies for children and children. In Pontevedra, for example, in the Garda Court, there are no separate dependencies. The units of the Instruction Court are in a room where the brushes were stored, and the Government itself says it's going to arrange for it to be more comfortable before the reform is completed. The same was said to us at the beginning of 2017. There's only one video conferencing apparatus for the entire building, but there are five criminal judges who obviously hold trials at the same time. We're going to wait for the new judge to see if they actually continue these waiting dependencies for the minors. When you go to that guide of good practices that is nothing more than a guide of "sentidy", you recommend that the environment for the declaration should be of privacy; that in the pre-trial phase the victim should be offered the opportunity to declare in the oral view via videoconference, to avoid visual contact with the accused. Because not in all the trials there are biombos, and the biombo, even if it exists, causes fear also because the victim knows that the aggressor is next to him; he has a wooden table in the middle, but he's there. And already in the oral view, judges and judges must stop questions about the privacy of the unrelevant woman or those who are headed to make her feel guilty for denouncing the abuse.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u228	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u229	But as it was, it was over. Obviously, we are going to vote in favour. These recommendations are very different from when this girl went to trial. And to say that they continue to carry out reforms when since 2013 we have taken 972 women killed and 27 children and children, it's a little risky. And even if this is the last phase, we have to take drastic solutions now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u230	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor on the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u231	Thank you, Mr. President. We are surprised that the main argument of the People's Party is that this issue is being discussed in Parliament, which is repeatedly discussed in Parliament. We have to talk about this subject again and again in Parliament for a reason, and that is not the case with what is agreed in Parliament. The months pass, the weeks pass, the years pass, and the situation of the judges is still what it is. And the problem with the judges is that usually the people who go through there happen at the time when the criminal trial is being, often once in a lifetime, and that the judge ends up getting 2, 3, 4, 5 years or a decade later, doesn't solve the problems of who has been through the trial a decade earlier. This is why we cannot comply with the fact that in 2016 or early 2017 an initiative will be adopted which will then not be carried out. That's the problem. And from there we deduced a consequence and a warning: we will bring it as many times as it takes until it is fulfilled. Because many times what needs to be done is to hold a subject in political debate until it is finally made a genuine materialisation that is the mandate; apart from the fact that this Parliament, unanimously or in a majority other way, urges the Council of Galicia. Then there is another question, and that is that we only have this as a control mechanism of what is approved here in Parliament, because we are trying to reform the regulation to verify the control mechanism, even parliamentary, about the decisions taken by this House which was rejected by the People's Party. So the only mechanism that we have the other political forces to comply with the agreements and that they are not always wet paper, is, in case the time passes and it doesn't occur, bring them back. What we bring today to the various parliamentary groups is the denunciation of a situation that exists today and that has not been solved since the previous times that we have dealt with this subject or similar, because similar issues, in addition to this one, we have brought them not only once, but many more times, and singularised cases we have taken them to committees on many occasions. And we're going to have to keep taking them because we have no choice. We do not agree that the honourable Member says that it is necessary to comply with the capacity of the judicial facilities. That's not what the law says. The law what it says, and the State Covenant what it says, is that we have to do adaptation works to make this a reality, not just adapt to what reality is. No, we need to change the physical reality, the structural reality, the architectural reality, the technological reality, and that's what this amendment was about. What can't be said is that in all Galician courts video conferencing systems are already installed and that internally, inside the trial, from room to room, you can't do a videoconferencing, and that's happening. The most expensive investment is made, which is on the teams; now it's enough to establish protocols or systems to make it a reality. But that's not happening right now. So it was very easy, if you didn't have any complications, you've done it since the last time we discussed this in committee. However, it has not been done, and that is why we want to denounce it. On the subject of government action, just look at what the vice president of the government said this morning to see that on none of the three main lines he announced referred to this. He referred to other topics, of course, but we're talking about a topic that complements what was said this morning, only once, of silence, and as a result of a replication to one of the interventions of other opposition groups, if he was said to be working. Well, we want to know what you're working on and what you're going to do about it. And, above all, we bring here an initiative to politically push that work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u232	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u233	I'll be done by now. There are currently buildings that are under construction, we also have a consideration here, and it's whether the needs of professionals who know about this are being discussed at the architectural level, because many of them are giving us complaints that we are not doing according to these prescriptions. And I'm done with a reference. I also want to show to the House the annual memory of the Supreme Court of Justice of 2017, so recently published, where the security of buildings and people is concerned. The lack of structural elements that complement security — of all we are talking about — is denounced, and it is specifically said that the scan and monitoring of security by the control room and the video cameras have not solved security problems, especially...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u234	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u235	...—end—in large cities such as La Coruña and Vigo, where incidents were recorded in this matter. And we insist on the need for more security personnel in them. All this in the memory of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u236	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u237	...the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. We therefore expect a reflection and political impulse. By the way, we don't have any problems in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u239	No, no, it's about the amendment, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u240	It's just that we're going...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u241	Well, we're done. We're willing to build. Let's hope you're willing to comply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u242	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next point. La Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the German Government in relation to the impact on Galicia of the constant rise in the price of electricity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u243	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u244	Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Mr. Count. You know perfectly well the view we have from the German nationalism of the constant scam and nonsense that the Spanish state's electrical system is. It will not surprise you to think that at this point it is an objective fact, without any doubt, that the changes of the last decade have only brought about in the darkness of an oligopolie whose operation is in the forefront of transparency and also that at this time it has contributed to legalizing the constant rise of light, while the successive governments were giving up to intervene in this sector and in this market. In this way, what should be a basic asset and an economic development engine, we saw it gradually become what it is today, a mere commodity with which big lobbyies, big lobbyies with which there are also those who put a legal carpet to the service of their interests and of the rotating doors. And the result of this deregulation doctrine has consequences; it has consequences for domestic consumers and consumers, it has consequences for small and medium-sized enterprises and it has consequences for our industry, for large industry. And today we have an emergency as a country. I suppose you will agree with me, Mr. Conde, that it would be irresponsible not to focus today's initiative on the issue that I understand we have to be worried about both our political forces and the Government of Greece: the situation of Alcoa, which has been announcing the closure of its factory in Coruña for more than a month. And it gives us the impression — I have to tell you with all due respect and with all the constructive courage — that you are not doing everything that is in your hands and we have — in truth — some disappointment with how you are putting into practice what we agreed on 24 October through an institutional statement in this very German Parliament, taking into account, in addition, that, if I am not well informed, you understand that you have moved forward this inquiry this afternoon because tomorrow you will move to Madrid with reasons for this matter. Well, I understand that there are issues that we can put together. We understand that the solution to the Alcoa crisis is political, because it is also political the causes behind it, and there are two areas in that political response: urgent and also in the medium term, because the change that needs both the system, industrial policy, and the energy system itself. The urgent line of work we understood that we had already fixed it in that institutional statement. And today I want to install to be kept in that text, to bet on the unit of action, to bet on continuing to urge Alcoa to withdraw that ERE and also to bet on that question still pending to open a negotiating table with all the parties involved. We have also maintained, and today we will make proposals in this regard to bring together all of us and all of us proposals for a stable framework for our industry. We understand that you are failing at the moment in the unit of action, that you are not counting — we have not even too much information — neither with parliamentary groups nor — what is more serious — with trade union organizations and with workers and workers, and it gives us the impression that there is a quite large difference between the degree of cohesion that we see, for example, from Asturias and the degree of cohesion that we are able to move. I don't know why he's laughing. I suppose you will explain later that we are able to move from this country, but I tell you frankly that we are concerned, that we ask you for a change of attitude, that it contains with us and that it also contains with the social part, beginning by setting up this plural negotiating table that today — which we know — does not exist. As far as ERE's withdrawal is concerned, we know that there is also an important meeting today on this issue. I don't know if you have any news, and if so, if you can move it, because we see that the central government is a little sloppy -- so to speak -- but the truth is that we also see quite a bit of a scurantism on the side of Galicia. My own group in the past also brought this issue to dialogue with the president of the Galician Union, but we didn't get too clear. In any case, although my vision is not satisfactory on these issues, we have seen here today, Mr. Conde, also move proposals in a positive and sincere manner. We understand that we need to move forward in another energy policy and another industrial policy, because it is precisely that energy policy, that industrial policy, which has led us to this situation. We understand that they didn't hit the other governments when we see today both the destruction of industrial employment and the situation that's going through Alcohol, and not just because behind Alcoa can come other companies and we're also worried about it. On the one hand, we must remember — and I think it is a relevant issue, also from the point of view of the proposals that can be made — that Alcoa was previously Inespal, it was a public company, and it was Mr Aznar, with a rather expensive sale to the public archives, which took account of the benefits of this company and ended up costing us more than four hundred million euros, because I don't think it was a very successful purchase. But, in any case, it is relevant from the point of view of the proposals we can make. I think it's also obvious that they didn't hit it when we have an industrial energy frame that's absolutely unstable. You know perfectly well that for Alcoa more than 50% of its fixed costs belong to electricity. He knows he consumes about 6 percent of Galicia's total energy consumption and therefore it's an absolute nonsense about the situation we're in, which today this company doesn't know how much energy he's going to pay for on January 1st. And so we understand that a system where this depends on a 20-second thrust is not the biggest guarantee for the stability of companies, which is not the biggest guarantor either to encourage investments in modernization. And we've insisted on this more than once on legislation. We have repeatedly proposed systems on the table alternative to postage systems, because they only cause uncertainty in medium-term costs and discourage those possible investments. And this, in addition, is something that is possible, that has already existed, that has already existed and that exists in other countries of Europe and that therefore is no nonsense and is also a demand for the sector itself. We understand that it is a problem the unstable framework, but that it has also been a problem an industrial policy between absent and erratic. Because it also has to be said that, by competing at the outlets of interruptability, companies like Alcoa have received important accounts of public money without anyone watching at any time if they were doing modernization, if they were fixing quality jobs and if they were preparing for the future. But, in any case, we've come here to talk about proposals. We've done a lot about legislation. There's no more than a month and a minute ago we insisted again on the need to sit down with the sector and make an assessment table of which was the result of the thrusts and what change measures we wanted for the future, because we're on a completely open stage -- and you know it. Surprisingly, you always voted against, until this morning I read in the press that now if you're in favour of making a table with the sector and sitting down and talking. That sounds like good news to me. Now, I also have to say that I missed these photographs an important part. I don't understand how you can go to a scenario of negotiating, valuing, talking, measuring what kind of model, what type of tariff or stable energy model needs our industry and which doesn't count on the social part. So this question I also have to move you here, because the truth is that we find this situation complicated without counting on a part that is absolutely fundamental. I want to think that the situation that's going through Alcoa, and also the political situation in Madrid, allows them to be a little more free to have a country's own position, so that we can move forward on that line. So, I'd also like to know if you've evaluated the industry proposal that has sent some union force to you about it. I'd like to know that you've been thinking about the next state-level meetings and also about the proposal of the corporate committee that last October 31 sent us to all political forces and that in the past your political force did not want to vote favourably. I don't know if we have to understand that they're against all these proposals and that we have to understand that they're moving something or something, but the truth is, given the urgency of the social part of these negotiations, it's a little inscrutable to know what's going on in them. I'm also surprised at the moment we're living. I don't know if you found out -- because I think he was in China -- but in his absence Feijó told us -- I think you repeated it today -- that they were in favor of raising a five-year-old pox, a stable frame at five-year-old sight. I don't know if they didn't give the message or what, but just a few days ago, November 14th itself, the State Official Gazette issued the order of pauseability, again, for six months, not for more time, and with a resolution of November 6, 2018. This meeting I'm talking about was November 8th. I don't know if you there didn't defend anything, if you didn't tell them anything, or if you told them something else, but I would also like you to talk to us about it, because it seems important to us what that posse can give to Galicia and whether there's a conversation or not between the Government of Greece and the Government of Madrid. In any case, on the second occasion, I will talk about more concrete proposals, but I think we have a margin, Mr. Conde, for you to move a country position in Madrid that will allow you to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u245	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u246	...this Alcoa crisis also as an opportunity for the Welsh industry. At the moment, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u247	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Presas, in fact, ten days ago I was in China, tomorrow I'll be in Madrid, defending in both cases the interests of the Italian production fabric. You don't know where you were, either when you wrote the question or when you prepared this intervention, because nothing practically has to do with your question of the intervention you've made. In any case, I'm going to respond to both of these things, to the interpellation and to their intervention. Besides, I don't know, Mrs. Presas, where your proposals are. He's been telling me about the proposals he was going to transfer to me for ten minutes. I don't know if those proposals refer to that proposal from a union that you haven't nominated; I don't know, therefore, as there are several unions, what it does mean, but, in any case, you haven't referred to any proposal. I, as I have read your plea, will also try to answer. What I'm not surprised at is, once again, the ideological and incoherent stance of the Galician Nationalist Block. Because, Mrs. Presas, it seems you've never been in the Government and it seems you've never ruled with the Galician Socialist Party in Galicia, and it seems you've never supported the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in Madrid, and it seems they're coming here for news, and it seems they're here to find out how the electric market works. And when you were in the government, they didn't do anything. And now I'm surprised — I am surprised — that throughout the entire intervention he spoke to the Government, towards the first person Galician Union, in all the aspects in which you were really addressing the Government of Spain. If you want to address the Government of Spain and understand that there is an inaction of the Government of Spain, tell the Government of Spain. Surely because he does not want to disturb his partners because he does not want to make that reference and makes reference to how the Galician Union really had something to do with the determination of the post of interruption or whether the Galician Union had something to do with proposals that, given its competence, had to have the Government of the State. Therefore, Mrs Presas, I would ask you a little, first, of coherence and, second, of rigour. And in his intervention, there was no coherence or rigour. In any case, as I told you, I will of course answer you, for this government, the Council of Galicia, has never changed its position at any time, at any time. And he's moving in all directions. When you pose for me the unit of action and you pose for me the position of the workers, tell me when Junta and Galicia are no longer in that unit of action, they are no longer defending the interests of the workers and they are no longer defending the position of Alcoa. Tell me a single statement of this government where that unit is in doubt and therefore the workers' defence, first, so that Alcoa withdraws the employment regulation file; secondly, so that Alcoa initiates a negotiation process to continue industrial activity in the Coruña; thirdly — something that is only listening to this government — to require the State to provide a stable framework for the price and cost of electricity to ensure that the set of electrointensive companies have access to electricity at a competitive cost. That's what he's asking of the Galician Union, he's been suing him from the very first moment. [[Applause]] Therefore, Your Honor, I regret that you refer to the Council of Galicia in expressions such as that we are failing, that we are not right and that we have no initiatives. We are with the workers, of course we have clear what is the solution and the way for Alcoa to continue his industrial activity and of course we are taking initiatives. Madam Presas, industrial policy. Do you see any difference in the situation that the Alcoa workers currently have and the situation that Elnosa workers have? You see any difference, because this government doesn't see any difference. We defend the Alcoa, Elnosa, Reganosa jobs, and even the naval sector when any kind of initiative, such as the construction of corveta, is exactly the same. [[Applause]] So when you want to talk about industrial policy, don't come here with demagoxies, come here with proposals and with commitment to this industrial activity in all the productive sectors and in all the strategic sectors of our economy. And initiatives. Of course, this government is putting on initiatives! And especially what we're maintaining is the criterion. This government is not defending anything other than what it stood for with the Government of Mariano Rajoy, nothing different. And throughout all the years the Galician Union defended Alcoa's position, defended that the Government had to establish a stable electrical frame and we did not change our position at any time. And, Your Honor, Alcoa has always had a solution, until now Alcoa has always had a solution, and the Council of Galicia asked for that solution where it had to be demanded, which was in the Government of Spain. And the Government of Spain with Mariano Rajoy over the last few years has given Alcoa a solution. And we will continue to demand with the same force and with the same intensity that solution for Alcoa. [[Applause]] And you talk to me about proposals. Your Honor, as you said you were going to make some proposals, because I will listen carefully to yours. For now we are taking the initiative, we are taking the initiative with the Government and we are taking the initiative with the electro-intensive business sector in Galicia. And we're defending your interests, because in that Law of climate change and of ecological transition that you put on the table, the Government has set up a statute for electrointensive companies. And of course we're meeting this morning with the electro-intensive and clear companies that we've set up a working group to identify what short- and medium-term solutions can be to establish that stable framework, of Alcoa and of the set of electro-intensive companies, because, Your Honor, there are four thousand jobs that have electro-intensive companies in Galicia. And so we will defend one to one of those four thousand and five hundred jobs to find that stable framework of electricity for electrointensive companies. Is your solution the independent fare? Because if that's the solution, Your Honor, I'm terribly sorry that you intend to generate false expectations for the Alcoa workers. [[Murmurs.]] You know that your independent tariff is not the solution for Alcoa, you know it perfectly, and all you're doing with this interpellation is making political opportunism. If the solution to the Galician Nationalist Block, of course, is the independent rate you're proposing, you know that's not the solution. First, because it's illegal; secondly, because it's more expensive for the Greeks; and thirdly, because in no way will it give Alcoa a solution of continuity. Therefore, the Government is proposing measures that we understand can suppose a solution for Alcoa. We will defend them in all areas, both in Galicia and in the various meetings with the Government. And I insist: the Galician Union maintains this unity of action with the Principality of Asturias, with the Government of Spain, with the workers and with the unions. Let us maintain this position so that Alcoa withdraws the employment regulation file and we maintain that proposal too so that the Government, which has the powers in the field of energy policy, makes a proposal that allows this stability framework and allows Alcoa to have access to a competitive and equal price for its competitors. So far the only thing we're worried about is because in that position, the blocks of 40 megawatts are reduced and the blocks of 5 megawatts are increased. And of course the Galician Union is concerned, and that's why don't you worry, that tomorrow will be on the table, because it will be the Galician Union that puts that position to defend Alcoa's interests. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u250	This is the spirit of dialogue of the Italian Government. I mean, the BNG brings an interpellation -- that you've liked! -- here in this House, concerned about a very important problem in our country's industry, and you come here with your clichés of always dedicating yourself to scorning others and in their usual strategy. [[Applause]] Well, look, I remind you of several things, Mr. Count. In fact, the BNG has never ruled in the Spanish state, we are a nationalist force, we have good ideas that we can export, but, of course, we never rule in the Spanish state. At the time of the reform of the Law of the Electrical Sector our Galician representation in Madrid has introduced the Law of the Electrical Sector of the People's Party to change the pause rate, that system, for a stable industrial tariff. I don't know what you were in, in the innocent then, when they enacted that legislation, because, as I know, the two laws in the electricity sector of this state made them the People's Party. So I'm quite right and the prolificness of dialogue was, but I have a fundamental, fundamental responsibility: for your policies we are as we are at this moment. We in 2012 amend this question. During this time we have made proposals for this not to be so and you have consistently voted against; the last time, when we voted for an ILP that you have totally dressed. Also in that proposal there was a stable industrial tariff for the industry that you despised. Ours is coherence and it's rigour, I don't know what yours is. And I don't think you have any legitimacy to come here and put me in a trance, even more when those who have reduced the pause of interruption from a year to six months — the same was the Holy Spirit! — it was a government of Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Count, and you know it perfectly. I'm also worried about the advertised posse, I'm worried about it. We've already registered initiatives on this. Who didn't know if I was worried was Mr. Tahoces and Mr. Feijóo, who went to a meeting on the 8th day—that you didn't make clear to me whether they told you something about this or, if not, whether they take them for the blacksmith or not—and what did they say? For: "He blessed the urgent measures for Alcoa." Well, I guess you bless this pox and you don't think it's then you have to change the blocks. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]] Well, I don't know, maybe you can explain it to me. Then he comes and says we haven't made any proposals. Man, I told you that I haven't given you enough time to tell you everything, but the first proposal I made to you is that they don't break the consensus emanating from this Parliament and that institutional statement that they are systematically violating. First, there is no unit of action. The unit of action is to come here and give the others the swab if they ask anything; that's the unit of action. For the action unit there must be dialogue, Mr. Count, and there is no dialogue with workers and workers. Don't lie, as Mr. Núñez Feijó did here, and when we go out all and talk to the company committee of Alcoa they're surprised that he said he was in permanent contact when he wasn't like that. Don't make the same mistake. And there's neither dialogue nor negotiation with parliamentary groups. Come here to insult the others. If you were so concerned about this matter, you had sent another counselor or advisor to answer this question 15 days ago; the government is supportive, right, when you want it. Well, at last... The second question we have raised is whether or not they supported the proposal of the works committee. We have already said that yes in this House and we have already proposed that this proposed battery be approved. Tell them whether they're going to defend them or not. But in any case — I insist — we are concerned about this country's industry, and so if you want proposals, you will have them. We understand that, first, we have to bet on a new energy framework that is stable and competitive for the electro-intensive industries. And we understand that we have to go back to a stable industrial tariff, similar to that in other countries around us. Also, in that tariff there must be compensation to Galicia for being a producer country. You can come here and say, well, as it seems to you that independence is an insult, it says, bah!, it's an independent tariff. I don't know if it seems to you that Asime is also independent, but... 2015: "The Galician industry demands a special and cheaper electricity tariff to be competitive." There are two debates: a stable industrial tariff and if within that stable industrial tariff we deserve preferential treatment, yes or no. [[Applause]] [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]] We think so, but at least they give the debate of the stable industrial tariff and dare. And we also understand that this has to be linked to the jobs, because part of the current problem is that during this time it has not been evaluated at any time if that interruptability and if those public resources destined for it are linked to the linkage to territory, employment and modernization. And you know you've been wrong, and you know that because we've already approved initiatives in this Parliament that included those issues that you didn't take into account before. For us, of course, it is unacceptable that in a Galician where we produced and exported...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u251	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u252	...an average of 35% of energy we don't have tools at the moment to make these four hundred jobs remain in our country. In any case, we have the will, despite the hostile attitude of this government, and we have confidence that there is capacity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u253	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u254	...that this question has another resolution. And now, Mr President, the BNG has already registered a new amendment to the law of the electricity sector — I have a copy there for you to take it, if you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u255	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u256	And they have time to open up a new debate and send Madrid a proposal that is taking part all over the world when we overcome this Alcoa emergency. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Conde López has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u258	All right. Madam President, nothing, as you don't like the truth and identify as synonymous when you clearly transfer the position of the Government in defence of workers and in defense of the position of Alcoa and industrial policy—you don't want to talk about industrial policy—because I'm going to talk to you logically with all the sensitivity, it's not going to be a lack of delicacy, because, of course, from this government you know that you're always going to have your hand stretched out. [[Murmurs.]] What if I can move you -- I insist, with all the delicacy, because it seems like you came with a special sensitivity today -- and I'm the only one who moved you were the truths as they are. [[Murmurs.]] All I asked him is why those measures you're proposing didn't do them with the two-party government. I asked him and he didn't answer me. [[Murmurs.]] I also asked him why, if they had the chance to do so in Madrid when they supported the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, they didn't. [[Murmurs.]] No initiative in this respect is known to the Nationalist Block Galego. Surely then, Mrs. Presas, you were concerned about other aspects and not exactly about industrial policy or energy policy. You tell me about the popular legislative initiative. Look, about your proposals and your tariff proposal — which seems to be that, as you say, you support some employers — they have never given any data. You know perfectly well that the electrical system is not just the generation of electricity. You just talk about the generation, but you never talk about distribution or transportation, in any case. [[Murmurs.]] And they never give, as I say, any kind of data. I will remind you of two remarks from a rapporteur, Mr. Blanco Parga, who participated in this presentation by the Committee on Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism: why 30%?, which is the proposal of the Nationalist Block Galego — Blanco Parga was asked for. Because it's a political decision," said Blanco Parga. A political decision. Why 30? No, we asked for 30, surely you can ask for 20 and another 50. That's the game. White Parga's digit. Second date. Who pays the Welsh electric fare? Oh, the electric system. All right, I'll set the rules, but let's see if there's anything else to pay for. That's the proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block. That's how no proposals are made. They make proposals with specific data and explain, indeed, what the impact of their proposal is when they want to implement it. You know that the fare you propose is more expensive, you know perfectly well. Because Galicia pays 100 million euros less tolls than is invested by the electrical system, and they know that in addition to these 100 million euros there are 200 million euros that enter by interruptability, which come directly from the state. They never explained where the 300 million euros that Galicia currently has and those that benefit from the solidarity of the system would come from. They never put down data, and thus, of course, no solution will be found. Madam Presas, we have not changed, we have maintained that unit of action, supporting the workers, we have maintained that stable framework for Alcoa, for the whole set of electrointensive companies and, of course, Mrs Presas, that we are going to transfer these proposals, that defense of both Alcoa and the whole set of electrointensive companies. We expect a clarification from the Government of Spain about the thrust that has just called, with these two blocks of less than 40 megawatts and those additional blocks of 5 megawatts. And, of course, since Galician Union what the Alcoa workers know, the workers of the electro-intensive companies and the whole of Galician industrial fabric companies are going to have a government here that will defend their interests above all. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. Paula Quinteiro Araújo and Luca Chao Pérez of the G.P. of In Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the working conditions of women who work cleaning floors, hotels and apartments
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u260	Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u261	Thank you, President. The first thing I wanted to do was say hello to the women who accompany us today from the rostrum. These are some of the women who work in our country as floor waiters, who unfortunately have to endure working conditions of misery. That's why we have brought this question today, because we believe that these working conditions cannot be allowed to be given in such an important sector for our country without the Government taking action. As I said, most women who accompany us today, and so many others who clean hotels, hostels or apartments, who are also known as Kellys, have been seeing how they are progressively losing rights and how they are gradually losing working conditions. We have already asked the Industry Committee about this. The fact is that the answers seemed to us totally insufficient, quite insulting, because they talked about almost everything but this particular sector. That's why we bring this inquiry today, because we hope the German Government will give an adequate answer to this situation. And we also have to say in a plenary like today's, which has been marked by the defence of equality initiatives, by Mr. Rueda's appearance, that we see a lot of contradictions often between the speeches they always make in the defence of equality, to put equality and feminism as an absolute priority of the Government, and then the facts, because we believe that immobilization is maintained in such serious situations as these workers are not feminists or defend equality. Today we're talking about a very precarious sector, strongly feminized, as you know, which, as I was saying, did nothing but lose rights as the years went by. And as we have often spoken in this plenary session, also in other committees, precariousness is no longer an isolated case, it is not an exception; precariousness is already a structural feature of the Galician labour market. But, above all, if we talk about women, and with this 8th of March so recent, where women teach a lesson going out and giving clear mandates, we also have to say that precariousness has a woman's face as well. Inequalities in women are even worse than in men. That's why we believe that measures and solutions must be taken urgently. We believe that the basis for this type of work to be so badly paid is that it is not valued, and what is not valued, which is not named, does not seem to exist. It's neither economically nor socially, because it's jobs that we also do in our homes for free: care, clean... and we believe that the first step is to value and value all this work. We must end the historical discrimination that we women suffer in all our areas. As I said, the problem with these women, with the roommates, is not a new situation, it's been a problem for many years, but it's true that as a result of recent work reforms, the problem has become even more acute. Because, despite the fact that it has been repeated on many occasions that labour reforms would serve to create more and better jobs, we know that the only consequences of labour reforms are that redundancies have been reduced, wages have been reduced and rights have been reduced. In addition, one of the consequences that has particularly affected this sector, as others — as we have said on other occasions too — was massive outsourcing, progressive outsourcing which has taken place and which has obviously been accompanied by a very important reduction in wages. And we think this has to change it. We cannot allow companies to withdraw from the collective agreement to put poverty wages, such as those that are currently imposing in many situations, especially when we speak of a sector that is often named in this plenary, tourism, a sector that is very important to our country when it is spoken in economic terms, but they never make a reflection of what is behind tourism, what working conditions are being imposed in this labour sector. Because, besides, in an area where seasonality is one of its fundamental characteristics, there will be a need for measures to ensure that employment is not as precarious as it is at present. We believe that employment cannot be perpetuated with the working conditions currently under way and that we must break up with this circle of discrimination. As I said, the demands of these workers have been put on the table for a long time, they're coming out, they're moving out, and then they're seeing a problem that's been hidden for a long time, which has been silent for a long time, and we believe the Government must take immediate action. We cannot afford so many women in our country under these conditions, as I said, of misery, especially because the demands that are being put on the table are totally fair, fully assumed, that the minimum rights are being met: to be able to live with what you earn from your work; they are not asking for anything that cannot be fulfilled. We recently knew a good news about this sector: that some professional diseases were finally recognized. We believe that this step also helps to see the conditions behind this sector, because we know that many women have had to endure for a long time to go to each other and that the only answer had been that causes were, for example, menopause or going to a mutual to paint an analgesic and follow the work wheel, and we believe that it is recognized that there are occupational diseases obviously a very positive step. But there's a lot more to it. This recognition of professional diseases, of a specific situation that creates diseases, is missing. It also has a correlation in other matters, such as the need to reduce retirement age. And in addition, we believe that this question is fully justified, and then I'll tell you a little more about it. These workers, obviously, because of working conditions, have to bear infernal rhythms, a lot of them are paying 2.50 euros an hour, imagine how many rooms, what rhythms and what speeds they have to do to get to a minimum interprofessional salary, how many hours they have to devote to it without having any kind of right but working at that infernal rhythm. And, as I said, this one is working at this speed, working as if you were in a assembly chain at all speeds, it also has consequences for both physical and mental health. Many times there are more studies of physical diseases, they are more quantifiable, but they are not talked about mental illnesses that are also behind them: anxiety, stress and all these issues, which often can't even take a fall because of fear of dismissal, fear of dismissal, just because of the outsourcing of businesses, which favors and facilitates dismissal in a very obvious way. So one of the questions we wanted to ask you was whether you had any study at the Greek level about these conditions that affect this sector. We don't think so. That's why some of the conclusions we draw from other studies, some of them made in Valencia by the Institute of Safety and Health at Work, which leaves very alarming data. 66% of workers experience back, lumbar, back and back disorders, followed by shoulder, arm and neck disorders, above 50%. More than half of the workers have physical diseases, lumbars, musculoskeletals, more than half. Which gives a figure that shows that rhythm and employment are not acceptable. And it's found that, in addition, the perceived disturbances are very related to the years they've been in the workplace and to the age and also to the age of the worker. And this is very linked to what I was commenting on reducing the retirement age, an obvious issue that is evident from the few studies there are. One of the demands and questions we wanted to ask you is whether they've been thinking about more specific studies to find out the real situation of these workers. And on the other hand, as I said, outsourcing favors workers to be released in a much simpler way. And this is happening. It happens when there's a lot of workers who don't get low for fear, and it also happens when there's workers who mobilize and then they're reprisaled. And this happened in our city, it happened in Compostela, it didn't happen long ago. You can read the press and realize that repression is happening today at hotels in our country. And, obviously, there must also be action and you will have to see why the Labour Inspectorate is not coming and is allowing there to be conditions as poor as he said. That's why we think the German Government doesn't know if he's aware of this situation. If he is aware, we believe he needs to take action. We want to ask you what are the measures they have on the table to solve the situation, because, as I said, all the claims they're putting on the table are fair, they're very basic, they're rights of the most basic: wages to be able to live, wages to be able to pay rent, bills. They're not asking for anything else, they're just asking for their working conditions to be worthy, not to have to get sick, not to go to work with painkillers every day. We believe that it is fully assumed that the Government must take action. That's why we hope that in the answer you will tell us something more than what your general director told us, of which, I'm very sorry, was quite insulting your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u262	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Quinteiro, I regret that your intervention was unfortunate, that it was inappropriate and irresponsible with an economic sector as is the tourism sector and, in addition, that it lacks the truth when it comes to the general secretary of employment. And I'm going to transfer all three explanations. Look, unfortunate because you, in a rather free way, intend to link the Greek labour market with precariousness. That's just unfortunate, because it doesn't respond to reality and, in addition, it doesn't respond to all the efforts being made by all economic and social agents to improve the labour market situation in Galicia. But besides, you're trying to move in a way, in my opinion, improperly and irresponsiblely a situation towards the tourism sector. Surely I thought the unfortunate comment of his spokesman on the sandwich tourism was just a lapse, but I see it's not. And unfortunately, when you are addressing the tourism sector, I think you should think that you are referring to 11% of the German gross domestic product, which is referring to twenty-three thousand companies and which are referring to one hundred and twenty-nine thousand people working in the tourism sector. And we do not deserve this precarious linkage to the work being done by companies, by the workers themselves, to work for quality tourism and to prestigious economic activity. [[Applause]] But it's just that, Mrs. Quinteiro, you talk about precariousness in a totally generalist way and you don't notice that the Galician Union has been working for an equal job for twenty-five years. Because you know perfectly well that the first equality action plan was adopted by the Council of Galicia in 1992-1994. The first German equality law is this government, in 2004. All actions were guaranteed to disseminate workers' and workers' rights as well as anti-discrimination guardianship in labour relations. He knows perfectly well that this government is working for female employment, to allow women to be re-entered into the labour market, to develop their professional qualifications, to ensure equality in the company, and also female entrepreneurship. And you also know, perfectly, that we are applying concrete measures to correct the situation of the labour market, that you came here, in a sentence, simply saying that it was precarious. That, Mrs. Quinteiro, doesn't answer the reality. And concrete measures are being put in place to promote women's employment through the various training programmes and integrated employment programmes. They're giving more help to equality, more help to reconciliation, more help to social and business responsibility. We are developing a new guide to good practices of equality in collective bargaining. A new study on the pay gap is under development. And also in 2019 we will continue with specific measures for equal pay and other initiatives. Mrs. Quinteiro, check the data. Check the data and you'll see that the German labour market presents data on female employment better than the average of Spain. Galicia presents a lower unemployment rate, has higher employment rates, has lower rates of temporality and precariousness, presents data on quality employment where eight out of every ten women employed in Galicia work full-time, eight out of every ten women employed in Galicia work full-time, seven out of every ten have an indefinite contract, and today there are more women with an indefinite contract and more women with a full-time day than in 2009. That's the data, Mrs. Quinteiro. So, I think if you want to talk about the labour market and equal employment, come here with data and then we can have a debate. But to come here generalize, just to say that there is precariousness in the labour market, is simply to miss the reality that the labour market in Galicia has. But his interpellation also moved the different aspects to improve the working conditions of women working in the cleaning of apartments in hotels and apartments. In fact, he explained it a few days ago to the Secretary General of Employment, with total institutional respect; I don't know why they use the word insult, I should explain it. Because there are the Journals of Sessions and the Secretary General of Employment has completely challenged him with institutional respect and simply giving him the relevant explanations about what you were asking. I don't think it's fair to come here and say that the general secretary of employment insulted her; that's inappropriate for an MP. In any case, if you have not been attentive to the explanations given to you by the secretary general, I gladly transfer the various initiatives, because I remind you that the Government of the People's Party was what constituted a quality table in the work of the hospitality sector to deal with all the issues you have raised in your intervention and that affect this collective, both in employment stability and training, in the regulation of working time and also in the safety and work health, the Government of the People's Party, Mrs Quinteiro. And also the Galician Union, not having the powers, is incorporate to that work table and, through the Galego Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, is participating, together with the Central Government, in doing all sorts of analyses and initiatives to improve the situation of this collective, both in the different occupational diseases affecting workers and in the prevention of work risks. And the fruit of that work, which we've been developing since 2017, is that recognition of injuries in the hands and arms that you mention as professional diseases and that is already a reality since last August. Also this agreement on the technical evaluation of other diseases that suffer and also the development of a practical guide to assess ergonomic and psychosocial risks. That is the reality of the initiatives that have already been carried out by the Government and the Council of Galicia. And by 2019, Mrs. Quinteiro, Galician Social Security Institute (Issga) is also planning to develop lines of work. First, by developing a guide to promoting safety and health at work, through an edition of material on prevention of musculoskeletal disorders to improve this prevention. We're going to promote campaigns directed to the hospitality sector and we're also going to update all the documentation to renew the image and presentation and its dissemination. And also, Mrs Quinteiro, we will offer advice and technical assistance in the proper management of ergonomic risk. Finally, we are acting, we are acting with concrete measures, we are acting in coordination with the Government of the State, and we will also give continuity, Mrs Quinteiro, to the work that has been carried out by the Labour Inspectorate, because the Labour Inspectorate also has a very important job to ensure the respect and rights of workers in Galicia, and, therefore, in 2019, it will pay special attention to workers handed over by temporary work companies and those who are linked to multi-service companies. Finally, concrete measures for this group in the field of prevention, safety and health at work, in all those aspects which allow for an improvement in their conditions, and of course, to do and carry out work through the Labour Inspection. With regard to working conditions, I simply remind you of the role of the Galician Union with that collective of the workers of the products of the sea, of the products made of the sea. I remind you that it was precisely the Council of Galicia that pushed an agreement. So here, the only thing the collectives will find in Galicia is a support from the Galician Union, first, to ensure the fulfilment of our competences and, secondly, to also defend their rights, in the national government, when collective bargaining is state-wide, as is the case. And there they'll always find us to defend those rights and to guarantee that job on equal terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u264	Thank you very much, Counselor. In the replica round, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u265	The first, to begin with, was not the Union — and is not the subject —. Let the workmen of the sea take out here, when they know that the only thing that has come to an agreement was the effort of women, for by God's sake! And trying to get close to the workers' strikes is already the big deal. [[Applause]] I was hoping -- and I'm telling you the truth -- that I was going to have a totally different intervention. I do believe that his intervention was unfortunate and irresponsible. And I'm telling you again that it was insulting, and I'm going to explain why I think it was insulting. It's insulting because they don't speak most of the time we ask them. It's insulting because they describe a reality that doesn't correspond to the reality that the workers of this country live. And that's why it's insulting, not for parliamentary courtesy. It's insulting because they speak of a country that isn't Galicia, they speak of a country that's in their speeches, it's very good, but it doesn't correspond to the reality that all the workers in our country live. You say: data. Then I'll give you a date. 48% of members of the general social security scheme work full-time and indefinite contracts. Where's the rest? More than half, more than half of the workers and workers are precarious. Why don't you talk about that data? How can you say that everything is okay, that employment isn't precarious? I would only say: listen to the workers and the workers, listen, ask everyone how much they pay, how many hours they work a day, what working conditions, what contracts, how many people have contracts for days, for hours, for weeks, how many people are working on an endless wheel between unemployment and work. That's the working reality of this country, you just have to get out of this parliament and talk to almost any sector, but especially to the service sector. And especially today, we're not talking about the service sector in general, we're talking about the floor waitresses. Talk to them, I'll ask the hotels about the working conditions in this sector, and then come here and say there's nothing to do, because the truth is, I do think it's pretty irresponsible that you don't say anything at all. I thought I was going to come with an intervention saying that self-criticism must be improved. The truth is that often it's useless, because it's only useful for them to have a speech of good words here and then they don't take any action forward. But now that they're saying that the situation is totally different from what it is...! It's just that we don't say it, it's just that we look at the data and talk to the people who are working in the sector. And how can you say it's insulting to tourism? No, what we're saying is that we're going to have to see what the conditions of employment that generates tourism are. If so many millions use to defend tourism, you will also have to spend money on the minimum conditions for workers and workers to live in. It's just that it doesn't say a single measure, none, that it's going to take specifically forward to the sector. I mean, I don't think it's okay if I come here to report the laws of equality, I already know them. And they say a lot of things, which must end with inequality between men and women — wonderful — but then, if these laws don't have a real application... That's what I told you in my first intervention: conciliation, wage gap. You guys at the Congress of Deputies were blocking a law to end the pay gap. In other words, they may say that they want to end the pay gap, but if later on in the initiatives that have been brought here also to this Parliament, then in the initiatives that bring the debate on the pay gap they vote against, because the speech, the truth, is that little has to say. And then about all the efforts that the Galician Union is making and all the efforts it's doing, because I'm telling you to ask all the workers who work in the sector who think of those efforts, if you're getting to them any of these efforts, if you've raised something of your salary, if you have less risk of dismissal than a few years ago. No, no, no, no. Talk to them, listen to them. It's just that to me, really, what I think is fascinating is that we have brought here a situation in a sector that is one of the most precarious -- the workers and the workers of the sea is also a sector with conditions of misery -- and not a minimum of empathy, a minimum of -- I don't know -- awareness of the situation of the people who work, and especially those who are here -- and even if they weren't, they could see it later. It is insulting, the truth, to say that the situation is wonderful, that it speaks in macroeconomic terms, that it does not go to concrete reality. I told you concrete realities, workers who charge 2.50 euros for a room. You do the math, you count how many hours you have to be working to achieve the minimum inter-professional salary. And then, after you do those stories, say that everything is wonderful, that there's equality between men and women, and that Junta is doing everything she can to make women and men have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u266	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u267	...wage equality. Indeed, I believe that today, with his intervention — and still having time to rectify — he has shown an incredible lack of respect and a total lack of people who are working for many hours with occupational diseases who are going to work many times taking analgesics. Many women have to be taking daily analgesics...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u268	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u269	...to work, to charge 2.5 for a room, and still above you have to listen to barbarities, which I think was the only thing you said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u270	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. You have the floor, for the replica shift, the Economics, Employment and Industry advisor, Mr. Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Quinteiro, first of all, this government always shows all sensitivity to any collective, to any one, to all, to all the collectives who need any kind of help, to collaboration and above all to work together to improve their working conditions, and hence to improve them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u272	I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Try it now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u273	All right. First of all, what was moving you, Mrs. Quinteiro, is that this government always shows all the sensitivity to the collectives. Today we are actually accompanied by a collective who has a very specific job situation, who is working from the central government and from the Galician Union, and of course what all the workers of this collective have is the hand held by the Galician Union to continue to defend their rights, to continue to work, to improve their conditions, and, therefore, so that towards the future this joint work between the different administrations with the unions and also with the workers themselves with the results, as they are already giving concrete results. [[Applause]] Madam Quinteiro, what is unreasonable — because I am not going to qualify for your intervention, as you have done with mine — is to seek to capitalize employment on an equal footing. You tend to understand that equal employment is your heritage. It's not true. Employment on an equal footing is a heritage of all the Greeks and the Greeks, of all political parties and, of course, of the people of Galicia. And that is where we are going to work, with all the collectives and in particular with the workers corresponding to a sector where, in fact, the situation of the housing sector, the cleaning of apartments, hotels and apartments, has peculiarities that we have to face and that we are facing. I'll give you concrete measures, Mrs. Quinteiro. I told him how the Issga, the Galician board is working with the central government on that desk that was set up, and I'll move him how we managed, the fruit of that work, the recognition of injuries in the hands and arms as professional diseases. How come we're not doing things? And I'll transfer that deal to you about the technical evaluation of other diseases that are suffering and have a professional source, such as dorsombars, cervicals or hernias. I've moved it, Mrs. Quinteiro. And I'll transfer that we're also developing a practical guide to assessing ergonomic and psychosocial risks. And I'll transfer you that by the year 2019 we have a specific work plan to edit work prevention material in this sector. And I'll move that in this sector we're going to run a specific campaign on the way out of the hostel to improve its conditions. And I'll also transfer him that we're going to update all the documentation and transfer all the advice and technical assistance to this collective. I'm talking to you about concrete measures, Mrs Quinteiro. Why do you deny reality? And we'll keep doing it. And also by the year 2019 we're going to follow very closely the working conditions and recruitment of the workers of this collective. And we're going to do it through the Labour Inspectorate, because this government has zero tolerance with any type of non-compliance with labour regulations in all sectors, and in particular in the hospitality sector. We are going to continue this inspectoral activity and, therefore, we will continue to act. We're going to continue to work in the area of safety and health at work, with gender perspectives, with specific initiatives in the sectors where there is a greater female presence, and, above all, we're going to continue to participate in the group of floor and hotel cleaners to follow in that working group in collaboration with the General Administration of the State to improve their working conditions and so that they can continue to be recognized by diseases such as carpal tunnel syndrome and also by developing the practical guide for ergonomic and psychosocial risks. So, Your Honor, zero tolerance with any non-compliance, maximum collaboration with the sector to continue working and developing measures, and, above all, I insist and remind you: Labour equality is not a heritage of its party, labour equality is a heritage of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u274	Thank you very much, Counselor. We now move on to the next initiative, to questions to the Government, and question 7.3. Question by Mr Miguel Ángeldo Filgueira and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the special mission to China headed by the Council of Galicia to participate in the I International Import Fair
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u275	To put the question, Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u276	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. After the interventions of the Apocalyptic Galician prophets, I wanted us to talk about the Royal Galician Galician, the advancing Galician Galician that grows, the Galician Galician who works every day to overcome it. That's Galicia we want to ask you about today. I must begin, Counselor, with two criticisms towards his intervention. I have to tell him to ask for consistency and rigor to oppose this country is like asking for pears to the elm or it's like talking to him simply in Chinese, because they don't understand anything. The opposition is certainly not in this House to practice coherence and rigour. [[Laughter]] Just as I don't think I get to expect BNG or the Tides to criticize the Socialist Party at some point; they won't, they'll never do it, because they're natural partners and that's what they're looking for. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] In the question, indeed, in the full past, we discussed in this Chamber a non-legislative proposal on Alcohol and several speakers from different opposition groups angrily criticized the absence of the economic and industrial adviser in that debate. We see that for the opposition there are companies of the first, second and third companies, because they are true that they ask for the continuity of some companies and ask for the closure of others; that is what we usually see here. To the left of this country there are first-hand workers, second-hand workers and workers who don't even deserve to keep their jobs, because the left has decided to put their company in the target of the destruction and closure of that company and therefore have them sentenced to closure. For us all workers are equally important, there are no workers of the first and second and third. For us, they are equal to the workers of Alcoa, they are equal to the workers of Ence, of Elnosa, of Reganosa, of the thermal power plants of Meirama or of the Bridges, exactly the same. We asked him today, Counselor, for his journey to China, which he did 15 days ago and which prevented him from attending that plenary session, an institutional, non-tourist journey, as opposition leaders such as Mr. Lores or Mr. Julius Ferreiro, who are going to China to do tourism. You were on an institutional trip, on a trip to China's First Import Fair, in Shanghai, to accompany them in that export work. It is certainly no accident that Galicia has broken record in recent years in the number of exporting companies or that the billing of these exporting companies does not cease to grow. We asked you, Counselor, for the assessment made by the German Government on this trip to China to participate in the International Import Fair in Shanghai.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. For the Question Time, you have the floor of the Economic, Employment and Industry Councillor, Mr. Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Tellado, first of all, thanks to the People's Parliamentary Group for the opportunity given to the Government to move both the objectives and the results of the trade mission we have just undertaken in China. In fact, the Government was where it had to be, because in this case fourteen Greek agri-food companies were participating in the I International Import Fair, which was held in Shanghai, a fair promoted by the Chinese Government, promoted and inaugurated also by the Chinese President, which allowed the best possible escape for Galicia and the agri-food sector companies that participated there. Without a doubt, it has been an opportunity to show the quality and capacity of the agri-food sector to innovate and, above all, to offer quality products. The first thing I wanted to highlight is that the merit of export results is being the magnificent behavior that the productive tissue is having. And the Greek companies are knowing, first, to develop a quality product that has market positioning; secondly, to identify markets to be able to develop and increase their exports and, therefore, to improve employment in Galicia as well. What the Government did was simply accompany from an institutional point of view this delegation and, therefore, represent the Italian productive fabric to the Chinese administration and also to the different companies and institutions that presented themselves there. The opportunity was unique, for a double reason. First of all, because it was the first international trade fair promoted by the Chinese Government in its opening strategy on imports and, above all, the opening through the silk route, and therefore an opportunity for Galicia to be able to position itself in these markets. Secondly, it was a great opportunity because Galicia had the occasion, thanks to the institutional invitation of the Chinese multinational Bright Food, to attend this fair through a Bright Food space where the Greek companies participated. Therefore, Galician companies had the opportunity to be at a stand of a Chinese multinational that served as a showcase, therefore, for their products. It was the best way we could understand that export data could have continued. And from there the Government has had an institutional agenda that I will move into the replica, both institutionally, with a meeting with the Deputy Mayor of Shanghai, and through that memorandum that we signed with the Chamber of Commerce for the import and export of machinery, which will allow us to open new opportunities to the business fabric so that new companies can have a destination of their exports in China. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. For the replica shift, Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u280	Thank you, Mr. President. The Socialist Party is very grateful to the question and forgets that these Greek companies were looking for markets outside when we were suffering a great economic crisis caused by an irresponsible government like the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero. And so it shouldn't be so funny for you to ask, because today the Greek companies are located in the foreign markets when there was no market here and here the situation was tremendously serious, Mr. Losada. And, therefore, we rejoice that on trips like this we can carry the wine, the yellow oil, the milk, the preservatives, the fish, the meat, the yellow honey, to sell them in foreign markets as is the market in China. I'm sorry you're worried. And, therefore, here is the German Government, on the side of the workers of Alcoa, of course, but also on the side of the workers of Ence, of Elnosa, of Reganosa, of the central Meirama and the central of the Bridges, who are again threatened their jobs, always by socialist governments. [[Murmurs.]] Galicia was always bad to him when there was a socialist government in Madrid. Therefore, we ask you, Mr. Counsellor, to attend to the Greek companies, to accompany them, to make cicero in that exit to the foreign market, which is what everyone is demanding at the moment. And I therefore regret this frivolity of the Socialist Party, frivolity accompanied by permanent irresponsibility. Every time they rule, the Greek companies have problems, the big ones and the small ones. At the moment, the German Government does what it has to do, in the case of Alcoa, in the case of the Meirama Central, in the case of the Bridges, in the case of Reganosa, Elnosa, of Ence, of all the companies that opposition groups want to close. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, Counsellor, we encourage you to continue with initiatives like this, because, as the Socialist Party cannot be counted, you know the Galician companies and all their workers who will always have on their side the Greek Government and the majority of parliament that supports it and that gives stability to Greek politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry has the floor. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Losada, you're trying all day they call him in order, really. Yeah, you're trying and you're gonna make it, you're gonna make it. You're not in the use of the word. She's been trying to talk and interrupt since there's a lot of initiatives, so please shut up, listen to those who are talking and, if you want to intervene, present an initiative... You're not in the use of the word. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If you want to intervene, present an initiative and say what you have to say, we'll listen carefully. Please. Mr. Conde has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u282	All right. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado, indeed, this trip was an important, important journey, so it meant, first of all, the bond and relationship that Galicia has with Bright Food from the point of view of investments in Galicia and also from the point of view of Bright Food's ability to help the Welsh productive fabric increase its exports to the food sector in Galicia. Surely the most important feature of this trip is that it gave continuity to the President of the Board last June, and therefore the journey responded to that institutional journey of the President, who marked a very important milestone to identify China as one of the priority destinations of our productive tissue. And that has given rise to participation in this fair, a fair of the most important in the world right now in a country that is opening up its economy, in a country that is reducing its tariffs and in a country that is increasing its imports. And, as I told you, to be able to be present at this event, we owe it to Bright Food, who, at the time, when he was affixed by something, trusted the experience of the Greek Conservative industry and who has now given evidence of that trust, allowing and contributing to consolidate the strategic alliance that the multinational has with Galicia. But, above all, travel is a very important precedent, because it can be an example for other Greek companies to start this path in collaboration with other Chinese companies that allow the introduction of our products or that they also logically want to invest in Galicia. A unique showcase that we were able to develop in this participation and, as I told you, with an important institutional presence, firstly, with the Shanghai vice mayor's meeting, which enabled us to strengthen the links between Galicia and China, not only from an economic and commercial point of view but also from a cultural point of view, but also working to boost the Santiago Way and hence the ability to attract tourists from China. We also signed a memorandum with the Chamber of Commerce for China's import and export, which will convert Galicia into the first autonomous community in Spain to sign a convention of these characteristics, which will allow the development of direct and inverse commercial missions between Galicia and China. And finally, Mr Tellado, the journey has been an opportunity for the agri-food sector to continue to grow from the point of view of exports. In 2017, 20% of the exports to China were from the agri-food sector; at the moment, as of the year, it has increased by over 30%. And so we now have that the agri-food sector in China already weighs 25% in total exports. We have to keep working, but, above all, we have to continue to accompany our productive fabric so that it will continue to win the market and continue to increase exports...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u283	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u284	...in a market as important as China. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u285	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece regarding the delay in the construction of the F-110 frigates of the Spanish Navy on the Navantia shipyard in Ferrol
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u286	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u287	After the comical minutes, we're going to the problems that concern this country. Mr. Conde, today you have the opportunity to show us if you care more about our ship or defend the practices and misery of your party. Because we know a few days ago — I suppose in part of the work of this real and effective system of institutional corruption, which is the People's Party — that a vital project for Navantia and Ferrol, like the frigates F-110, has been at least two years behind. And all that has happened in this time to tell Mr. Feijóo is that you of missiles don't speak or understand. It is surprising that you have exclusive rigor and knowledge in this country. But in any case, the BNG doesn't come here to ask you to know about missiles and to talk about it and to explain it, because that's what they're supposed to be like Government. Because today we know that political leaders — I insist — of your party wanted to impose a specific model and that this involved a two-year delay. We knew it wasn't a technical debate, but it's by chance the model that responds to the interests of a company linked to former Minister Morenés until there are two television sets. We also know that it is increasingly evident that Rajoy's government has sought to favor him. And we also know that even from the central government they had little shame in awarding a contract to that same company to assess whether it was better that company itself or its competitor; i.e. surreal. So, Mr. Count, we think this is nowhere to take it. And so we ask you two very clear questions: first, to be honest, to explain at parliamentary headquarters whether you knew this situation. Because it's just as bad as they didn't know her and so they're not developing their control work as if they knew her and they didn't say anything or they didn't find out. And, therefore, we also understand, secondly, that we are talking about a very serious issue. It's just that it's not about knowing or not knowing missiles, but about defending the good management of public resources, the burden of work for Ferrol and the galley naval, and also not to tolerate some harmful performances that could be the tip of the iceberg of a bigger plot. We therefore understand that his Government must act. And since you're going to Madrid tomorrow, because I'd like you to clarify if the Galician Board is going to address the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office to investigate this matter. Because, Mr. Count, covering up the shames of your party could go out very expensive for the productive system of our country. And so we want to know what you're going to do in front of this question that we've just met publicly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u288	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u289	Mr. President. Madam Presas, I'm so sorry that you're making fun of the German exporting sector. I don't think it's funny minutes to talk about exports, Mrs. Presas. I believe that talking about the export sector in Galicia is about a sector that generates 21 billion euros in exports to Galicia, which is generating jobs in Galicia and which, therefore, I think it deserves a minimum of respect from the Nationalist Block in Galicia. [[Applause]] Because, Mrs. Presas, we're in an open economy and Galicia doesn't end in Padarnelo or end in Pedrafita. Anyway, you're talking to me about an export sector. Look at this chance! Now it turns out you're interested in the naval sector. Other exporting sectors seem to be of little less interest to him. What I'd like to know is what's your priority when you talk about the frigates. Where's your priority? Is it in the same priority as in the corvets, which turns out that you do not defend the construction of the corvets and that you do not therefore defend labour for the naval sector and for Navantia? Is it the same position they have in the case of frigates? What is your position? This government is very clear, Mrs. Presas, that it is nothing other than the contract of the frigates. And the position of the Galician Union, both with the Government of the People's Party and with the Government of the Socialist Party, is that you can sign that order of construction, that order of execution of the frigates, on which seven thousand jobs depend in Ferrolterra. That's how we did it, and the People's Party put in the budgets this 252 million-euro game to start the construction of the frigates. That's the reality. And the decision right now is the sole responsibility of the Socialist Government: to be able to sign that order of execution and, therefore, to be able to sign that contract. Surely, we don't know whether or not with the support of the independent parties, such as the Galician Nationalist Block, or with Podemos, we don't know if you're really going to support that contract. Other contracts in Navantia, of course, do not support them. In any case, since the budgets were approved, Mrs Presas — these budgets are EUR 252 million to start the construction of the frigates — Mr Sánchez's Government has paralysed the order of execution. That's the reality. The question that should be asked — whether it really defends the interests of Galicia, Navantia or the workers of the shipbuilding sector — is why that is so. And he knows perfectly well that that firm could be carried out without the need to define the missiles. And, therefore, this is not a technical issue, it's actually a subject of the Government's willingness to sign that order of execution and, therefore, to transfer tranquility and security to the German naval sector, to the Ferrol naval sector, and therefore to the workers of Navantia for that order of execution to be carried out, and hence the construction of the frigates begins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. You have the word, to reply, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u291	It's you, Mr. Count, to talk about respect this afternoon, eh!, it's about respect. For starters, if you want to talk a little bit of respect for the naval of our country, then answer what you're asked! Tell me what you're asking, Mr. Count! [[Applause]] Did they know or did they not know that the People's Party's attempt to encourage Morenés' company was a two-year delay, yes or no? It's as bad as they've known him and shut up as they haven't found out about the move, because they absolutely violate the naval law and don't take part in the decision-making with a public company — theoretically public — which is Navantia, equally serious! [[Applause]] He didn't even question me if they're going to get to know this. If the Socialist Party and the Central Government don't, if they don't, why not go to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's office to investigate something that obviously paid attention to Galicia's interests? I ask you, just as I ask the Central Government: this must be investigated. And, of course, the BNG will bring to this House initiatives so that this is done, because we are talking about the Greek naval and we are talking about the use of public resources that come out of our pockets, of all of us, Mr. Conde. [[Applause]] So, you see, I'm aware that you're used to running bulk on contracts that never reach the naval, like in Pemex. But in this matter you have a little bit of luck that you have a new government to blame you, but you have to keep an account too. Did you suspect the People's Party's attempt to encourage Morenés, in that effective network of institutional corruption, something harmful to Ferrol, yes or no? We're convinced we are. At least 2% of the population has lost that region for these two years. While you were building contracts, Ferrol was suffering from important social and economic problems, and that must have a research and also political responsibilities in his government, by default of his functions or by default of making this known.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u292	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. For the Government's replica shift, Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u293	He's got a really worrisome competency confusion. This afternoon, the truth is, you haven't quite located the map in Madrid, Galicia, and really that to establish a debate with minimal rigour is really difficult. [[Murmurs.]] What I wonder is, what do you intend to accuse the Council of Galicia on this subject? I really don't know. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You know it's a decision that corresponds exclusively to the Government of Spain and the Navantia. He knows that the Galician Union has no jurisdiction in this matter. And so -- I don't know -- if you understand there's something typical that needs to be transferred to the Prosecutor's Office, because that's what you have to do, I say! Or would you like to transfer that kind of responsibility? What we don't know is why you're trying to damage the German naval sector. And what we don't know is why you're trying to damage the Fragate Construction Program, how they tried to damage the Corveta Construction Program, because the Galician Nationalist Block opposes the construction of the currants in Navantia. [[Murmurs.]] That's the reality. [[Applause]] In any case, we're here to defend the interests of the workers of Navantia. Don't have any doubts. For us, for the Galician Union, the priority is for the Government of the State to make use of this item of EUR 250 million and to implement this contract for Navantia. At no time in your intervention did you allude to that step that the Government has to take, and therefore it raises the question of whether the Galician Nationalist Block is really with the naval sector. In any case, Your Honor, the Galician Union will continue to bet on the Fragate Construction Program. It will continue to bet for the Government to unlock the order of execution of the fragato construction program and, therefore, to allow those seven thousand jobs in Ferrolterra to be sure of their future and to guarantee the workload for this yard for the next decade. And that's where we're going to work. From there, Your Honor, the Council of Galicia has never changed its position at any time, at no time, and therefore we will continue to maintain that position. And technical aspects, Your Honor, Navantia and the Government of Spain. The Galician Union will defend the position of the workers and let that contract enter into force as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-20-DSPG092.u294	Thank you very much, Counselor. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thank you very much.
