ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u1	Good afternoon. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. And we're on the agenda. The first point is that of legislative texts. Debates and votes of the Ditame, delivered by Commission 3rd, Economic, Business and Budgets, on the draft law on tax and administrative measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u2	Amendments to the Bloc Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Tide Parliamentary Group are maintained. The President of Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, has the floor for the presentation of the dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u3	Good afternoon. Presentation of the Opinion on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The bill was entered into Parliament's Register on 19 October 2018. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 19 October, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to the 3rd Commission, Economics, Farms and Budgets. The parliamentary groups of En Marea, the Galician Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block presented each amendment to the whole, which were qualified on November 12, 2018 and rejected at the plenary session of November 19, 2018. Parliamentary Group of the Party Amendments, the Popular Parliamentary Group made fifty-nine amendments; the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, ninety-two amendments; the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, sixty-six amendments; and the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, eighteen amendments, which were qualified on 23 November 2018. On that same day, the Bureau of the 3rd Committee shall qualify and accept the partial amendments. I agree with this agreement that the Socialists' Parliamentary Group makes a written reconsideration on the understanding that some of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group were not consistent with the draft law, which was rejected by the Bureau of the aforementioned Committee by the majority, with the votes in favour of the Vice-President and the secretary and the vote against the President. Commission 3rd, Economy, Farm and Budgets, at its meeting on 26 November 2018, appointed the following speakers. By the Popular Parliamentary Group of Galicia: woman Paula Prado del Río, holder, and Fr Alberto Pazos Couñago, alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea: Don Antón Sánchez García, holder; and Ms Julia Torregrosa Sañudo, alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia: Ms Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, holder; and Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, alternate; and by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego: Don Olaya Rodil Fernández, holder; and Ms Noa Presas Berganginos, alternate. At the meetings of 27 and 28 November 2018 the Ponencia studied the articulated text of the project, together with the amendments submitted, and completed the report containing the recommendations made to it by the Commission, consisting of the adoption by most of the amendments made by the Popular Parliamentary Group. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the 40th Parliamentary Group of En Marea. They were subsumed by Amendment No. 40 to the People's Parliamentary Group, which abolished the additional first provision of the bill, the amendments Nos. 80 to five of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea; Forty to nine of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia; and sixteen of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. It was recommended that a transactional amendment be accepted with Amendment No. 40 and Amendment No. 3 of the En Marea Parliamentary Group, consisting of amending Article 12(3) of Law 3/2007 of 9 April 2007 on prevention and defence against forest fires in Galicia, including Article 19(1) of the draft law. And of a transactional amendment drawn up with amendment number thirty-eight of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which was to amend Article 42(1) of Law 5/2017 of 19 October, to promote and implement business initiatives in Galicia, which is contained in Article 34 of the bill. And create a new article 34a) and enter a third transitional provision into the bill. The Commission, meeting on 11 December 2018, adopted by the majority the report of the European Parliament and a compromise on Amendment No 17 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is introduced in Article 6 (14) of the draft law. The text of the speech before the debate and the vote at this plenary meeting consists of an explanatory statement, followed by 40 articles, an additional provision, three transitional provisions, a derogation provision and three last provisions. The joint is divided into two main headings: Title I, relating to tax measures, and Title II, relating to administrative measures. Title I, divided into several chapters, sets out amendments to the regulations governing own taxes and state taxes. Title II regulates various aspects of matters such as public employment, budgetary arrangements, environment, territory, infrastructure, sea, health, rural environment, social policy, economics, employment, industry, culture, tourism, sport and administration. This regulatory text is closed with various provisions contained in the additional, transitional, derogatory and final provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u4	Thank you, Mr. Losada. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position. [[Pause.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u5	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. We still have the final debate on this Accompanying Law and I will divide my intervention — just like the text — into two parts. In relation to the first of these, with the part of the bill on tax measures, since the BNG we have said this throughout the parliamentary process: what we see is that the draft law on tax measures — that part, that title of the Accompanying Law — deepens into a policy of tax of a regression. In this way, we find no measures that move towards the other conception of taxation by betting on the principles of progressiveness and equity as the main axes of the tax system that enable us to meet its redistributive function, as we have also been defending throughout this morning. One more year is not covered by the Tax Law any proposal to set up a fairer tax system within the limited powers of Greece. In this sense, since the BNG we have kept our amendments and we defend with them the increase in rates for higher incomes and assets, or the use of our own, narrow and limited regulatory capacities for the creation of new taxes. They were mocking each other in the morning, and the other day in the Commission, they were making it out of tax, for example, to sugared beverages. Just as they said — and all his lordships would remember — that the EVI was going to go up to the showers, and then it turns out that whoever criticized it was the first to go up the EVI. But there's something in their criticisms, even crackdowns, or in that ridicule that gives reason or comes to reaffirm the BNG in one of our main criticisms. And it is true that with the current statistical framework, with the current political framework, with the current economic framework, there is very little room for manoeuvre that we have to really change our course in this direction. And then perhaps more than to mock, than trying to ridicule the proposals in this case of the BNG Parliamentary Group, it would be good to be able to open up a deep political debate on the need to move forward in a different political framework that would actually allow us to equip this country with mechanisms that would allow us to plot and design a truly redistributive, truly fair tax system. These are, however, changes, despite the constraints, despite their limited character, which would help to set up — I insist — a more fair and more equitable tax system; in addition, by providing greater resources that strengthen, which blind basic public services, such as fundamental social rights, and contribute to encouraging economic dynamisation and the change of production model, so necessary for our country. Another year, however, the People's Party's Government instead of moving forward in this direction — as we see in the Tax Law Project — opts to move in the opposite direction, as it clearly exemplifies — and we have already denounced in this chamber — the measure of lowering the tax rates on personal property. Finally, in the fiscal aspect, the desire to move towards greater fiscal and managerial capacity is null and void. After giving in, for example, the re-centralization of a recording of fuels, it is not even planned for a change that compensates for the loss of political capacity. And here we heard in the morning that the People's Party is about to lower taxes; that they could think of it before quadrupling the diesel and the tax that taxes the Welsh income on the payment of this fuel. However, the most serious of this project, this legislative tax initiative, is the second title, this Law on Administrative Measures, the whole revolutionum with which more than twenty laws reform. They return to reforming the Mining Act, the Fire Prevention Act, the Mountain Law or the Act implementing business initiatives. And in the Law of Predation that they passed in solitary, just a year ago, they now incorporate a whole new chapter through this mechanism. Reforms and more reforms; patches, ultimately, reflect a huge lack of planning and the purest improvisation. The most enlightening example is the Land Law — I told you, in addition, on the first occasion that we had to debate about this draft law in this very plenary, a Land Law that was passed in 2016. So it was said in this same chamber, and in successive public statements, that it was the final text, that it was a law of the future, they said. We see that the future for the People's Party had very short legs, because the first reform of this Law of the soil of the year 2016 was the same year that was approved in the Accompanying Law for the 2017 exercise, which accompanied precisely the budgets for 2017, and it already takes — as we have reported since the BNG — more changes than years in force. They are introduced into this Accompanying Law, both by the Government's proposal and by the amendments — and then I will speak of that — tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, heterogeneous amendments, disparate amendments in the legal system. They modify — in addition to what I mentioned earlier — the Sports Act, the Tourism Act, or even reforms introduced into previous accompanying laws such as the 2017 Act; reforming only one year ago. You legislate the coup d'appearance and that is also seen in the more than 50 amendments that the People's Parliamentary Group has tabled to this bill, including reforms that have reached two laws and one decree, which were not even originally planned. Then they will come up here and say they don't like this legislative procedure, but a sort of infuse science does or makes it inevitable. A legislative reform of the Act of Accompaniment, of the Law of exceptional administrative measures, linked, in any case, strictly to the execution of the budget itself that the PP intends to introduce reforms of silence, without political debate, without social debate, without a perceptual report of the Economic and Social Council, and by urgency. They retouch year by year, every time they have the chance to do so with the Accompanying Law, the laws that you yourself have drafted and approved, and this year they do, in addition, if you allow me, in a completely cheating way. And for example, one button, I try to pull out the figure of the area pediatrician, an occurrence of which has already been discussed in the morning, presented by the Board of Galicia, we don't know if designed by a preclared mind in an office in San Caetano, without any debate or dialogue with the professionals of public health, and after modifying, we must also remember, the Health Law less than a year ago. An occurrence that had to be withdrawn by social pressure and political pressure, but not by listening — as was said here in the morning — but by giving them real urticism of dialogue. They didn't intend to solve any problems -- as it was also said this morning -- if that were the way it would be to hire more public staff, what you would do is create an even bigger problem. The luck was that it was made public, and that society, and above all collectives, trade union associations and organizations and professional groups made the People's Party march back in this attempt to create this area pediatrics. But this case serves something else, it also serves to see things clearly. It illustrates this case to perfection, although not only will I talk about others, but this case of the area pediatrics and what we live through the process of processing this accompaniment law exemplifies to perfection what is the nature of the accompaniment law — and we have already said it on more occasions — and the use of it by the Popular Party every year since 2009. But not only a pediatrician in the area — I insist — but also the amendment that, for example, came out in the debate this morning of the People's Party on the liberalization of expropriation systems. They introduced an amendment to see if they made up a little bit of Santa's urban ballast, because it was excessively obscene, excessively obscene, but still they keep that amendment to add article 117 Bis, and we're going to see what it clearly says, I think it's important to verbalize and make manifest what it is or what it is, what is the content of that amendment to add 117 Bis. Currently in the law, in Article 117, in Section 3a, expropriation systems, a series of general determinations are determined — and the value of redundancy — which at the first point say: "By means of this expropriation system, the expropriating Administration obtains the property of all the goods and rights included in the polygon and executes the urbanization works." Keeps track of the application model, the fair price and the effective payment model or system for that purpose. What do you say from now on, or what will you say from now on, if that Amendment 117 Bis to article 117, as an addition to 117 Bis, goes ahead with this Accompanying Law? Article 117 Bis, "Modalities for the execution of acts in the expropriation system". It says, "The expropriating administration may use, for the development of the activity of the execution of the actions of the expropriation system, all direct and indirect management arrangements admitted by the law enforcement regime." Exactly the same point that was already in the initial amendment. They don't change a coma, and the possibility of privatization of that expropriation continues there. And the top of the trick — because I think it's the best qualifier of how the whole process of processing this accompanying law has happened, already the mere use of this legislative instrument to vent out a pen of more than twenty legal reforms — the full of the trickling and the most absolute improvisation we're going to live on in this plenary session, along this afternoon and this final minute, minute and party of this accompanying law. In this session, the People's Party seems to be withdrawing an amendment, which was actually adopted by the People's Party itself, and the same People's Party that voted in favour last week, today rests because on the issue of mountain law, the Council imagines that it was going to have problems going forward. And why? Because they reduce the big debates in this country, such as the mountain management and management policy, or the fire prevention policy, to a mere process that can be resolved by the way — I insist — of the most absolute improvisation, and the impulse blow, and it is the absolute culmination of gossip, improvisation and none, too, to the legislative power and to this camera. We are not going to prevent the removal of this change from Annex II to the Mountain Law, which is done, but what is clear is how far you dance to the sound of the "Yenka", frankly. Or in other words, it becomes clear that they don't have a project for this country in matters that are central to Galicia's future, nor do they intend to address it seriously and, above all, with the tranquillity that would deserve any legal change. And then, I guess they come to tell us here that I don't know about the budgetary technique, that none of the amendments tabled by the opposition can be passed, because we're not as preclarative minds as the People's Party. We are going to vote against the Accompanying Law, because beyond the legal sub-refugee it represents, of little democratic nature, this year is a real – I insist – gossiped, cheated, real improvisation, and we are going to see it until the last moment. But since their lordships are still open to amend themselves, they correct again, when they correct correctly, and accept the amendments that keep the Parliamentary Group of the BNG alive. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Socialist Group of Galicia, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are debating the Ponence Report of the Law on Tax and Administrative Measures, known as Accompaniment Law, that the Council of Galicia — I must repeat once again — brings us together with the draft budgets as if it were an appendix, a volume more within that budget project, which is now no longer a project, is already a law passed by most of the People's Party this morning. Law that, over and over again, we have to say that it's not the best legislative instrument, and we assume that Mrs. Prado del Río will accept this statement, since she also uses it habitually. Although for this year, Mrs. Prado del Río, you will not be given the justification of last year, in which he told us that this law for this year is revealed as a useful instrument. I suppose this year, isn't it supposed to be a useful instrument, because fortunately for all the Greeks and all the Greeks this year there was no wave of fires. [[Applause]] I suppose you won't tell me that it's a very busy text, just as you told us last year, since to this hasty text that you introduced the Government of Feijóo, and that you modify twenty-nine laws and six decrees, the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, that is, the parliamentary group that supports the Government of the People's Party of Galicia, presents nothing more and nothing less than fifty-nine amendments. Last year they justified forty-eight amendments by the wave of fires, and this year, what is the justification? I'd like to know what justification is, because even in their own amendments they introduce subjects that were not touched and that had nothing to do with that bill issued by the Government. You always use this law, this Law of fiscal and administrative measures, to amend by the back door, with an urgent procedure, without publicity, without public exposure, without negotiating with the affected sectors, without introducing the necessary reports, without the ESC's dictation, and without informing, no debate, no consensus with local authorities, which in some cases are very much affected. Twenty-nine laws and six decrees that have no connection between them. Twenty laws of those twenty-nine promoted by government Feijóo. Three of these six decrees promoted by the Government Feijóo. A government of Feijóo which has been amended by this procedure for one hundred and sixty-eight amendments to the laws, and which has been amended for five hundred and sixty specific policy questions. You go up this rostrum, you defend the few laws that you approve — yes, with a lot of publicity and much propaganda — and at the very moment — also with a lot of publicity and much propaganda — they amend their own laws, in some cases up to thirty-seven times. I would like to remind you that today, December 18, 2018, this afternoon this is the second legislative text approved in this German parliament. The first was adopted this morning, which was the Budget Law, and now the second normative text. [[Applause]] The Feijóo governments are PP governments, advertising and propaganda, they are governments of opacity, where the lack of transparency shines, the least possible debate, more roller, although they don't like the general secretary of the People's Party, and a government in which nothing seems. Look, it's a government that despises the work of the opposition in this parliament. It is a pity that Mr Tellado has just left, because I would like to repeat here — to see the elegance of a Government of the People's Party with an absolute majority — that in the 3rd Commission he told us to groups that we are members of the opposition — that we are the minorities that make up this parliament — that it was just like taking the dog to the psychologist, because it was as it was coming in. That we follow with our mackerel and he shows us year after year the mistake we make, but that we year after year learn nothing. And besides, he made us a quote, a quote from Winston Churchill, which I also want to repeat here to listen well, because the truth is that the appointment is, at least, elegant, elegant, of a government with an absolute majority that you can allow with its knee to approve everything you want, but still he doesn't get enough, and tell us, and I'm going to quote textually, "You'll never get to the destination if you stop throwing stones to every dog who steals you." Very elegant, very nice, the truth is, yes. It's nice to hear from the secretary-general of the party that supports the Government of Galician Union so much elegance. But look, I would like to remind Mr Tellado, and all Members and Members, and of course also the Counsellor, that these minorities sitting on this side of the bench represent almost 50% of the men and women we live in in this country. So we don't think we should be despised. [[Applause]] Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen of the People's Party, do you think that these minority groups can or should be — even if it is a quote — compared to dogs? Or should we shut ourselves up to the opposition to stones? In front of this, I tell them, look, they're never going to shut us up, they're never going to shut us up! [[Applause]] And in front of the People's Party stones, I'm going to make an appointment that's much more elegant, even if it goes from the opposition: "I don't agree with what you say, but I'll defend your right to say it until death." Let's see if they learn a little! In the face of the struggle and repression of the People's Party, the Socialists repeatedly defend dialogue and negotiation, dialogue and negotiation against the confrontation and repression of the People's Party. Well, the Members and Members of the PSdeG once again reject this usual practice of the People's Party's governments, which, as I said before, despite having an absolute majority, approve and decide to put all their legislative changes which they consider, together, in a law and pass them through the back door. You in this parliament dismiss the possibility, over and over again, of discussing the legislative proposals presented by opposition groups, which we are continually presenting. And on the other hand, they don't take the trouble of bringing legislating texts, why? There's no need, they put everything together in the Accompanying Law and in a single debate, come on: twenty-nine amended laws and six decrees. In addition, the People's Party presents fifty-nine amendments and new laws which are amended and which have nothing to do with the previous project that was presented here, as can be the Galician Hunting Act — which I believe we are going with this amendment to solve all the problems — or the decree on how juvenile centres and child care centres are regulated, or a law that changes the creation of the ESC. Finally, I will also tell you, we — these authors and representatives of those called by the elegant general secretary of the People's Party as amended garbage, and also amended by it itself this morning as amended garbage, because it gives equal amendments to garbage, garbage amendments, as you wish, in the elegant way that have to be put here and manifested, without that elegance, we present a total of sixty-six amendments: some that are tax measures, because the Government Feijó brings us a bill that announces a series of tax reductions that are very important for citizenship. Look, the Government Feijóo brings us here is a Christmas tale. Budgets themselves deny this announcement. The collection of taxes from the Government of Greece for this year 2019 is forecasting to increase, and the reality is that the reduction in the tax on property presented by the Government of Feijóo is the extent to which it has the greatest impact on all tax reductions announced by the Government of Feijóo. A measure that affects only 7,132 people, with an average net quota of 10,000 euros, that is, it affects 7,132 people, the ones that have the most in our country. A tax downturn that'll cost the Galician Xunta farm no longer to get 12 million euros. And that's the fiscal policy of tax benefits and tax reductions that Government Feijóo presents. So what you bring here is a regressive fiscal policy, a fiscal policy that favors, as always, the ones that have the most. Faced with this, the garbage amendments of the socialists, because we present a series of amendments that are being pursued is the redistribution of wealth, favoring the most vulnerable people and who contaminate whatever they pay. For this reason, we propose the deduction by purchase or rehabilitation of habitual housing, that taxpayers could deduct 3% of the amounts satisfied by the new acquisition or rehabilitation located in the autonomous community and that it constitutes or is going to constitute the taxpayer's habitual dwelling, whenever it is the usual housing and with a taxable basis that does not exceed the amount of EUR 18,000 in individual taxation or 22,000 in joint taxation. And besides, a county that would increase to 5% if it occurred in a county of less than 5,000 inhabitants. We, in the face of these tax cuts of the People's Party, the socialists, present a deduction for monomantal or single-parent families or, in their case, with ascendings greater than seventy-five years. They could have the right to apply in full autonomic terms a deduction of EUR 400, and that would increase in another 200 plus for each greater ascent of seventy-five years that generates the right to the application of the minimum per ascendant. This is provided that the general tax and savings base does not exceed EUR 40,000 in individual taxation or EUR 65,000 in the case of joint taxation. We also propose an increase in the type of autonomic recording in the tax on the income of physical persons applicable to higher incomes. We also propose a minimum exemption from property tax, that the minimum exempt amount is EUR 400,000, excluding the maximum amount of up to EUR 400,000 for the usual housing and not benefiting the highest income. We also propose an increase in taxes on environmental damage caused by certain uses and uses of encouraged water; that this increase would also be affected by the collection for environmental conservation, repair and restoration, mainly the waste disposal, and that it would not be transferable to consumers. We also propose an increase in the air pollution tax rate, which would also be affected by environmental conservation, repair and restoration, in particular the issue of waste disposal, and which would also not be transferable to consumers. We also ask for an exemption from charges on the use of land in port service areas so that public corporations or non-profit entities in these lands — which are sometimes the centre, where the centre of the same people are made, of the people's life — can perform certain uses, other than strictly port activities, such as cultural activities, recreational activities, trade fairs, etc., whenever they do not have an economic utility or that this economic utility is irrelevant. You also propose a 10% drop in the Sogama canon, which means 5.6 million euros, according to the data provided by the Council itself, with a series of conditions for the municipalities, but in the last two years —2016 and 2017 — Sogama presents positive results of 9.5 and 12 million euros respectively. You forget that in 2014 you unilaterally applied an increase in the Sogama canon of 34% that you didn't have because you moved it to citizenship, i.e. to the municipalities, or they either transferred it or assumed it with their own budgets and thus decreasing their available resources. Well, in view of this, what we're proposing is a discount on Sogama's canon that can be at least 10% and can reach up to 20%. And there is something fundamental, which is the absolutely necessary collaboration of the Environment Council with the Greek municipalities to promote selective collection and to provide information to people or beneficiaries of the service. We also propose a review of the academic pricing system, of the universities in Galicia, in order to ensure the freeness of the first registration at all levels of the university system and to be progressively implemented, in order to allow access to university to all people who have access to it. In administrative measures, public employment. The Galician Union presents a new general amendment to the Galician Public Employment Act, again through the back door, without prior collective negotiation and without the necessary budgetary debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u8	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u9	I'm done, Mr. President. A law that was passed in 2015 has thirty-seven amendments, fourteen only in this law, and the Socialists have tabled a series of amendments derived from the debate with the most representative unions of self-employment, with the goal of favoring the recovery of the working conditions lost by public employees during the governments of Mr. Mariano Rajoy, in addition to the governments of Mr. Feijóo. We ask to repeal Law 1/2012, the one of temporary measures which follows six years later, except for its article 4.1.3, which would maintain its vigil...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u11	...and the implementation, as already mentioned, of the measures contained in the second agreement for the improvement of public employment signed by the Central Government and the trade unions on 9 March 2018, being Minister Mr Montoro. Nothing else on this first round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u12	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u13	Good afternoon, everyone. The People's Party has once again disregarded the ordinary legislative procedure, once again, democratic, transparent, to bet on the introduction of changes, through the back door, of transcendent themes for the future of Galicia, thus dodging that public and quiet debate which could have an ordinary procedure. It's no coincidence, since your neoliberal and predatory bet, as the only way of development for this country and which is also at the service of certain particular interests, cannot be transparent in its entirety, you need to hide it, there are things you need to hide. Behind this legislative technique, and the apparent improvisation, practiced over and over again, are the particular interests, interests, plus businessmen of sectors that create little employment and little value added in this country. The Accompanying Law has been setting this kind of practice, for us totally anti-democratic, but in the last two years there is a twist of cough still above, not only are more than twenty laws being changed in fundamental respects, or even comprehensive reforms such as last year's reforms in the wind or mining sector, but also these changes are now taking place in the phase where the People's Party, which supports the Government, because it presents amendments, and we have to wait at the last minute for the amendments of the People's Party for equally transcendent changes. Legally it is, but it doesn't seem very serious or very democratic to do it that way. I mean, the People's Party introduces fifty-five amendments to this bill. And it even introduces amendments to laws that were not introduced into the bill, such as the Hunting Act, for example, or for the conformation of the Economic and Social Council. For us it's a great way to proceed. Well, as far as the content of this bill has been talked about a lot, but it has to be reiterated in its fiscal policy, which is fiscal policy to strangle the public, making it lose weight in the country's general economy, and in returnivity, favoring high classes and harming most. They always demand the tax drop, but these indiscriminate tax drop policies mainly benefit the highest incomes, and this year they have a very clear example, which is the low wealth tax; it lowers the proposal that with slight variations in the percentages, being something higher in the high sections of the base, by affecting all sections almost equally, the quantitative impact is especially relevant for the highest bases. In other words, it's not only that it reduces the rich, but that it reduces the wealthiest. It's a tax policy we don't agree with, i.e., according to its decline of €10,600,000 would have an annual reduction in the capital tax of €38,000. And a liquidable base of €167,000 would have 66 euros down. You'll tell me who benefits from this legislative reform or not. As well as administrative measures, they again reformed the law that would bring stability to the urbanism of this country. In 2016, spring 2016, the Land Law was approved, and we've already made four changes, and that's what's going to bring stability. In addition, without a very clear criterion, in this case it was intended to do with an article 117 bis, which is the privatization of the expropriation system. We already know what interest this change was for. That is to say, Article 117a laid down in point 3: "So, in accordance with the principles of transparency, publicity and competition, they may be given the status of beneficiaries of expropriation to natural or legal persons to acquire the property of all the goods and rights included in the scope of action, above their fair price, which perform the works of urbanization." Well, this rescued something like what was the urbanization work concession system that was present at the 2002 Louga and that you yourselves deleted in 2016, and you again rescue it, but only aggravated, privatizing this expropriation system further, looking like the Valencian urbanizer agent. I'd like to know, Counselor, what did the Government intend to include in this bill this 117 bis? I'd like to know the motivation, because I suppose when you put this in, it says, we have a problem with the application of the law of the ground, we have a problem that does not develop the fields, etc., etc., and then we're going to introduce that. We don't have that explanation. Even though they now remove the most explicit aspects of this proposal, we would like to know what was the motivation of the People's Party to introduce this change that they later withdraw. They pull it back because we took them on potatoes, because we took them on potatoes!, but I'd like to know what the first motivation was. And I'm serious, I'd like to understand why the work concession system was withdrawn in 2016 and now it's put in a figure that is as a Valencian urbanizing agent, even if they withdraw it in their amendments. I'd like to understand. Well, we're not going to approve as the People's Party wants, either, because as already said here, the possibility of certain operations is also open. They tell the mayor of Mos, the People's Party, that the institutions are not to favor the ballads, that they are to work for the general interest. Well, you're also betting on improvisation, and the urban policy chaos in rural areas, and this wasn't in the bill either. They again introduce through the amendment a modification of the third transitional provision of the Land Law on Rustic Floor Buildings, in which they say that the use and activities originally authorized are maintained, in any case, allowing the change of use to any of those regulated in Article 40 of this Law. What do you want with this change? I don't understand, honestly, I don't understand. Can it be — if we read it with a certain interpretation — that any building licensed in rustic soil can change its use? Could pig-producing vessels, or rabbits, with a rustic license, be able to change the residential, which is one of the uses collected in Article 40? Can that be it? Is that what you want with that? Good. For we believe that with that wording we can interpret, so we present the following compromise proposal — which we believe is more appropriate, and we transfer it to the People's Party — but we have no answer, and we have no answer, and we maintain the original authorized use and activities, and in any event, and in the assumption of traditional buildings, the change of use to any of those regulated in Article 40 of this law with the regime of conditions set out in that article. It changes a lot! We had no answer. I suppose it will be because the thing goes in the other direction. We also propose the abolition of the role of the priority entrepreneurship initiative, which is intended to be set up with the change of a year ago, which is approved by the law to promote business initiatives, which I will also ask about the results of this Business Initiatives Act. I mean, as in strategic projects, if you give these priority business initiatives a number of administrative benefits, if you cut them half the deadlines, and we think it's more discrimination. Here we want an efficient administration for any economic initiative, for any economic initiative, to be of any size or kind, whereas it's a legal activity. Why is 2 million euros, or 1 million euros, as the Socialist Party proposes to reduce what investment has to be? Why can't an investment of less than 1 million euros be strategic? Why not? And why don't those activities also have to enjoy an efficient and agile administration? How many businesses or initiatives don't come down because of inefficient administration and bureaucracy? How many do we all know? Of course, what we have to do is that the whole administration works well so that big initiatives and small ones enjoy the same possibilities. We don't understand these kinds of proposals again. We also propose the derogation from that law, the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Initiatives, the Law on Predation, because it implements a model based on the unsustainable exploitation of natural resources, which generates little employment and little wealth, and we will not tire of repeating it. When you come here and say that we are the enemies of employment, no, this model is what destroys employment, which destroys the prospects for the future in Galician rural. By the way, what effect did this law have on relocations north of Portugal? That I know was the reason why this law was passed. Do we have any balance, Counselor? Did it work? Because I think this law only worked so that the electrics and the banks, and the voyeur funds, can do business with the galley wind, it's the only thing that worked, because if we see the foreign investment capture data in 2018 and we compare them to 2017, we see that it was the worst thing. If we see the data in the first six months of 2017, 94 million euros of foreign capital were raised in Galicia. In the first six months of 2018 it was 32, a third. What was the effect of this law to capture foreign capital so they would not go north of Portugal? You think we suck our fingers here, of course! Well, we already knew it wasn't for that, we already knew -- studying the content of the law -- that it was just to benefit the electric lobby, the miner and the forest. That's how it was! At the relocation, we're still waiting for news. I mean, in our amendments we also propose two questions, which we already know will not, of course, approve them more than anything to denounce the way in which you operate. You are doing a reform of the Law of Total Mining, a comprehensive reform last year, through the back door and without giving a debate on a topic that is socially sensitive, that is very socially sensitive and that there are many collectives who are fighting against the aggressions of certain mining companies, and you are doing it through the back door to avoid this debate, to avoid protests. Well, but you still don't approve the main mining planning instrument, as explained in the 2008 Mine Management Act, the Sectoral Plan of Extractive Activities in Galicia. How can a government have without developing the main planning tool in Galicia?, why?, why? I don't know, I know they're rhetorical questions, I know they won't answer me. And then, too, how can they reform the wind sector, the Law of the wind sector completely, change the rules of the game, without opening a debate? In an area that could be absolutely decisive in the development of rural Galicia if it democratizes itself and ceases to be a business for large businesses, and it is done as in many European countries that this wealth returns to society. You guys go through the back door, because you can't really explain to society what interests they're serving. It also changes, again, the Heritage Law, and not to guarantee better protection of the heritage, but to lower the guarantees. It is added to the protection of cultural heritage, to the direction of the corresponding forest department, integrating into the forest authorisation, including goods of cultural interest, which is the heritage report. And of course heritage reports are taking a long time, and of course they delay certain actions that have no problems being done, certain cuts that there is no problem being done, but what we have to do is put human, technical and material resources to make reports in time and form, but it's not about unprotecting. We believe that heritage is a pillar of the future for this country, and it cannot be unprotected, and you know that certain actions of cutting and planting forests are causing damage to our heritage. There are complaints, dozens of complaints, every year due to aggressions on the heritage of cuts and plantations, and that doesn't mean that everyone who cuts and plantations does it, but there are allegations of associations defending the heritage, and you're giving them more facilities. The criteria for the change from agricultural to forestry use are also amended. They also change and modify the conditions for changing the use of the burnt forest for indefinite reasons, as they say, derived from the sustainable management and management needs of the territory. If you don't need it anymore, it's all over here, and we're talking about changing what's a rustic and forested one that's burned, giving it a change of use, and that can't be so open, in our approach, of course. And then they're done, I don't have much time, but they're going to make a lot of changes to the Mountain Law and the Fire Prevention Act, in which some of us will agree and others won't, but it's once again falling into chaos a legislation that has been changed twice a year in the last year, in the Accompanying Law, in the Promotion of Business Initiatives Act, now again in the Accompaniment Law, and it seems that now, lastly, there's going to be other changes in the matter of distances, and we don't seem very serious to be changing always by criteria, and above all, we don't know what the reasons for these changes are, because there are things that we, the truth, we don't understand. Well, I don't have much time left. Then so much legislative change, changing the law doesn't solve everything. I mean, you make a lot of propaganda, you talk about that historic consensus in the Forest Commission, I think it's very good. But you propose the conclusions of that dictate to me, as they are, for example, that all forest resource management plans be made before 2024. They haven't made one since 1992 in twenty-five years, and with the same resources they plan to do in five years all the forest resource management plans, and in the budgets this year there is no change in human resources allocation for forest districts, so they can do that dynamization work that is also contained in the forest dictatement. That's a mistake, that's to say: if we're going to do this, we're going to do the other; but without the resources, of course, they're not going to do it again. That's why we're asking for less propaganda and more reality. As for Sogama, and we've already said it, we're proposing a 10% drop in the canon, after raising it by 33.4%, lowered afterwards in 2015 -- I think I remember -- by 10%, and now by 10%. Why 10%? If you see Sogama's accounts, they're perfectly going to lower the canon by 20% and leave it as before.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u15	If your concern is to transfer economic improvement to people, do it. Why not? Why are we going to continue financing Gas Natural Fenosa or Naturgy when they earn 16 million euros before taxes, and when they've already paid all the credits from Project Finance and participatory loans with the Board and with the Fenosa Natural Gas itself? One of the reasons why that canon climb was made, which was not the payback change, was to pay all these loans, among them the loans that were paid to yourself, or to Junta and Naturgy, too. Therefore, and I'm done, which has become very short, Mr. President. In conclusion, neither we think it is serious nor democratic, they are constantly changing very transcendent issues from very transcendent sectors to the future of Galicia; they are being hidden, because their wishes are often untrustworthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u16	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u17	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, we arrived today at the end of the discussion of the Law on measures, after having discussed it several times before, not only at the plenary session of the whole debate, but we had the opportunity to debate at the two meetings of the Phoenician Parliament that we had with all parliamentary groups, and also last day 11 we also had the debate on amendments in the Commission. Whoever hears their speeches today, they think we're talking about different legislative texts. You're talking about lack of debate, lack of transparency, lack of opacity, through the back door. That I know the law of measures entered through the register, through the front door, I think that with all the leaves, I think it has not hidden any, and I suppose you all know how to read it, and therefore were able to read it, to interpret it, and in no case did the Law of measurements have articles with Chinese ink from that which suddenly appears alone. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that for two months now, two months ago, when you entered the Law of Measures, it was enough for you to have time to read it, study it, amend it — that was so — and debate it, as we have done in a number of debates. Mr. Sánchez says it'll be legal, but it's not democratic. Look, Mr. Sánchez, we live in a democracy because thanks to a constitution that has survived for 40 years — and much in spite of you right now, that you don't like — today we live in democracy, and look, what is democratic is legal, because if this text wasn't democratic, I'm convinced, and you too, that it wouldn't be legal. Look, I was telling you when we first discussed this law, which had to be voted on for three reasons: firstly, because it changes taxation to lower taxes on Galician society; secondly, because it includes improvements in the field of social welfare; and thirdly, because there are changes that favor the protection of the environment as regards the best management of the mountain and the protection of forest fires, and also increases the penalties for companies that manage mining. Well, I believe that after the adoption of the Presidency in the Commission last week and after the amendment and other add-on procedure, because I believe that the law has been improved in the parliamentary process. Today we're also going to talk about a predictable transaction, of which you already know, Mrs. Rodil, which is not from an amendment, comes from the original text. If the BNG was unable to read in that original text and realize that there was a technical error, In Marea, yes; In Marea, for example, he pushed it, perhaps because In Marea attended more and read better, probably, that article and it wasn't either through the back door, nor was it opaque, nor was it hidden. I mean, if there's a group that amends it because it's clear, if there's groups that don't amend it, I'm sorry to say it's not because it wasn't in the legislative text. I was saying, first, that this law favors the taxes of the Greeks to be lowered. Of course, we already know that raising taxes is left-handed. I don't know, they say this is regressive, I think what it's regressive is to raise taxes and, besides, move away from equity. I suppose when they talk about progress, they're talking about that tax on sugar measures that we're now going to pay EUR 8 or 9 per litre of Coca-Cola, Mrs. Rodil. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] And I think that now, from that measure, the payers would have a lot of contributions to the raise, everyone would want a payroll in their gang. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Well, jokes aside, I think you -- who's talking about that tax joke -- have mocked the zero taxes in rural areas. And today it's a reality that thanks to zero taxes in rural Galicia, transactions in rural areas have increased. You have scoffed at the reduction in the tax of successions and prayers, and today it is a reality that there have been many covenants of improvement and many prayers and inter-living acts since this tax change was approved. So the scoundrel you made to the Greeks didn't look like such a joke and they took advantage of the set of that tax discount to have more money in their pocket, which is what it's all about. Ladies and gentlemen, with this law, as I said, we have introduced new tax reductions, we have improved the working and conciliation conditions of public employees, we have included a 10% reduction from the canon to the municipalities that certify it. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez doesn't seem enough. But, Mr. Sánchez, better than nothing, he could come here to debate about the whole trajectory and all the years of Sogama's ups and downs crisis. Anyway, I'm telling you that you're working with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and I think they're the valid interlocutors to discuss this matter. The reconstruction of buildings affected by disasters that are declared emergency will be permitted. We will avoid the risks arising from the state of abandonment of forest plots and it will be possible to make access to Risk compatible with those people who are working but have low incomes. This morning we heard a socialist voicer saying that there was only one thing that was in agreement with the People's Party, and it was job creation. It's surprising that it's just the Socialist Party that introduces a suppression amendment to this article, which makes it possible for people who charge the Risk to be able to match it with a job. What more dignity is there for a person than his income comes from his work? And not, in any case, their way of understanding social policy as an assistant. [[Applause]] I suppose for you, Risga is an aid resource, not for us. Well, you're very concerned about the amendments the People's Party tabled. I, the truth, as you are ruling in Valencia with a bipartisan, and the parties that support the Valencian bipartisan—PSOE, Compromis and Podemos— presented no less than two hundred and eighty-four amendments to their laws of measures and budgets, gentlemen, that you come here to talk about the amendments that the People's Party presents because it is at least surprising. Of the fifty-eight amendments that we present, thirteen are to the explanatory statement, because when you amend the legislative text, you logically have to move it to the explanatory statement. You didn't amend the explanatory statement, you amend the entire legislative text, but the explanatory statement that remains as it was. If we only accept all of their amendments, the truth is that it would be a completely chaotic legislative text, with an exposition of motives that proposes a series of questions and a legislative text that absolutely differs from the exposition of motives. So I think it's also important that appreciation of the legislative technique. And he said thirteen were to expose motives for a matter of legislative logic and legislative technique. The rest? So, look at about half — twenty-one — refer to matters regulated in Articles 19 and 22 related to the prevention of forest fires and to comply with that dictate — which you do not like, Mr Sánchez, you never liked — from the Committee on Forest Studies. And in no case, Mrs. Rodil, it's an improvisation. These two groups of amendments account for almost 60% of the total. The amendments twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-six, twenty-eight, thirty-three, forty-six, forty-eight, forty-eight, forty-one and forty-two introduce absolutely grammatical questions, corrections of minimal errors. So to come here and talk about how we don't have a country idea when many of the amendments are for grammatical corrections, Mrs. Rodil, it's also nice. Amendment twenty-four is only a reference to State Land Law. Twenty-five, to avoid serious consequences that would have to result in disproportionate elimination of biomass — as I told them earlier —. Or twenty-seven, which eliminates the costs of publishing in the Official Journal of Galicia, which were assumed by the municipalities — do you not agree, ladies and gentlemen? Amendment twenty-nine, which refers to the reference to land which is incorporated by this cause into the State heritage and which cannot be equated to the assumption of unknown owner—are they also against that?—. Or thirty, thirty-five and thirty-seven, on active forestry. And so we could be talking about all the amendments that comply with the dictates. Thirty-one, referred to recommendation fourteen. Thirty-two, for Law 39/2015. Thirty-four, thirty-eight, too. All of them for the dictates of the Forest Commission. And, Mr. Sánchez, the changes that we are discussing refer to... when you were talking about the axillization of pine and eucalyptus cutting procedures in no case to protect the heritage. You can say here whatever you want, but in no way is the heritage unprotected. The improvement in the management of neighbouring mountains in order to protect them from the risks of leaving neighboring parcels, as well as to encourage and support sustainable forest management initiatives. You don't agree either, but it's not a question that the People's Party now says things that will make our territory worse or the forest issue. Mrs. Rumbo, I see you are very offended because our secretary general said about your amendments that they intended to remove the paper at the Galician board, the printer ink, the light, the water, and even the heating of the buildings at the Galician board; and as he said they were amended, that seemed to you little elegant. How should we be in the People's Parliamentary Group after hearing things like we're a pack, that we're corrupt, that we're thieves, that we're women's killers, that we're fascists...? And this morning we were called Frankists. Very elegant, Mrs. Rumbo, very elegant. That's elegant! [[Applause]] Look here, there are headlines: "People are Nazis that dig the tomb in Parliament"; "Or the citizenry barters this chasm to votes or stones or will have to assume to be a slave"; "Villares qualifies Feijóo as the worst bacteria for this country"; "Villares stain of cowards and refuse to Feijóo"; "Beras calls the PP mafia that stinks"; "Beras calls breast-feeding and narco-president to Feijóo." And so we could follow one after the other. Mrs. Rumbo, you have to fit a little bit better. And I don't think it should seem so offensive to those who paralyze the administration. Well, I would also like to refer to certain amendments that have generated some controversy for their inclusion in the Law of measures for having no connection with the subject that regulates, according to the Socialist Group. The surprising thing is that they only resorted to those from the People's Parliamentary Group, because — as I have already told you in committee — an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Group also included issues that were not regulated in the Law on Measures, as was Amendment seventeen to request the public character of the three hospital foundations. And you said, you were sorry, that this inclusion would prevent other parliamentary groups from exercising their power and right to review and make amendments to bills. How do you think we feel when you present a bug correction that is nothing but an amendment to an entire article? Not on time and no bugfixes, an entire article with a bug fixing that you present after closing the trial, Mrs. Rumbo. This does limit and remove the possibility of exercising our powers to examine matters, but it is only the Socialist Party in a pure state. Look, in the People's Party if we respect the principles of transparency, publicity and free competition, which are the ones that must refuse in all public proceedings, with the greatest regard to the general interest: neither the back door, nor with opacity, nor without debate. Thanks precisely to the debate and thanks to meeting with affected groups, thanks to reading the considerations and recommendations sent to us by the collectives — as was the last letter sent last week by the Agricultural Union — the transaction we are going to reach today... well, Mrs. Rodil, because that gives us reason that it is indeed a law that people, who have public exposure, that the agricultural unions have been able to read it. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Rodil, I wasn't so hidden or so hidden. Someone better than you, who have not tabled an amendment, at least in Agricultural Unions, that are not in this chamber; somewhere it will be published so that they can read it, gentlemen. So... the article, Mr. Rivas, the article... don't get angry! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u18	No, don't dialogue. Mr. Rivas, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u19	I mean because Mrs. Rodil said before that it was the fruit of an amendment, which is not true, it is not the fruit of an amendment, it is in article 21. Well, you don't like the eruption of a new expansion of the boar, either, I know it's not something new; but, well, it's true that you use this law to introduce an amendment to the Hunting Law, which we believe can slow down or mitigate the damage that farmers are suffering a little bit. And, Mr. Sánchez, on the issue of Mos. Look, precisely to avoid the ill-intended interpretations that you have made of that article specifically, that is precisely why we tabled this amendment. And that amendment in no case introduces the figure of the urbanizing agent of Valencia, you read it calmly, it's simple and plain to collect state legislation, to rescue the decrees of 1978. But look, as you now rule in the Spanish state, you can talk to your colleagues at the Congress of Deputies and drop it, if it's as simple as that! Why don't they? If it seems so bad to you that we collected in Galicia a state legislation that is in force today and that for nothing is the urbanizing agent of Valencia, don't try to confuse or manipulate. I want to think that you -- as you just said here -- were not meant... I also want to think that you didn't intentionally do your demonstration. In any case, we have talked to the rest of the groups, we have made a compromise proposal, Mr President, because in Article 21(20) amending Annex II to Law 7/2012, to the Galician Mountains, in points (b) and (c) there was a technical error of meters, in a "five meters" bridge and in the other "two meters"; it would be to change the "five" by "ten" and the "two meters" by "four meters". This would be done with Amendment No. Sixty-two from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. I have transferred the text to the groups that are informed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u20	Thank you. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u21	Yes. Well, one last. Well, I've got a lot of them, but I wanted to tell Mr. Sánchez that when he talks about the land that was set on fire, you know we reached an agreement, a transaction, we accept his amendment in which you said that "reconstruction could be authorized with the same volumetric characteristics that the building and facility had." If you don't like this legislative amendment, which was proposed by the mayor of the Neves, it's not a question of the People's Party here. He's from a mayor who has suffered a fire strike in a very important part of his territory and now wants to rebuild, logically, those homes and these facilities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u23	...and we through the law make it easier. There's no question, no dark, no opaque, nothing you think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u25	...or you're always moving that looks like the People's Party does things in a way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u27	...hidden to do something...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u28	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u29	...as far as the law is concerned.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u30	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u31	That's nothing, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u33	I'm telling you, it's from the Snow mayor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u34	Well, thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u35	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u36	Thank you. Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on amendments. [[Pause.]] Bloc Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u37	Well, good afternoon again. A technical error of meters — said Mrs Prado — referring to a letter sent by Agricultural Unions to all parliamentary groups dated 13 December 2018. I'm going to read briefly a vertical reading, which is what Agricultural Unions says; Agricultural Unions talks about something more than a technical error of meters. And it says agricultural unions: "Seening the draft law on tax and administrative measures, and in respect of the amendments introduced by it in Law 7/2012, of the hills of Galicia, by means of the present we want to record the following: firstly, as regards the reforms of the various laws with direct impact on the agricultural, forestry and rural development sectors that are contained in this bill, in no way has been transferred prior to this agricultural organization; therefore, we have not been able to give any consideration to the content of these provisions, yet there are specific forums for that purpose, such as the Agrarian Council and the Forest Council." This is what we denounce, which is a lack of transparency, social debate and political dialogue. [[Applause]] Secondly, "agrarian Unions continue to reaffirm the process of reforming the different legislation of silence through its inclusion in the Budget Accompanying Act, of an annual nature, by means of a procedure which prevents the proper treatment, debate and public consultation that would follow the various legislative initiatives by ordinary channels". I mean, what they just denounced the forces of opposition in this whole; I can't put myself in detail about the whole letter, but it's very interesting and I recommend your reading to everyone. With regard to that technical error of meters of what the spokeswoman spoke of by the People's Party, what was a few distances that you expanded on the occasion of the Accompanying Law of 2017, after the fateful wave of fires that we lived in October of last year. Now what was meant by this Accompanying Law was that people who had to take up the cutting of their trees to comply with those strips of protection of ten meters, now all of a sudden the ten meters passed to two meters, and from now on they could cut a few different distances. This causes, among other things, legal insecurity for people who own huge forest land. And, of course, you come here, Accompanying Law of 2017, and it says one thing; you come back the following year, Accompanying Law of 2018, and it says another completely contrary. And what do we call him? Rigor? Country project? That's what we call impulse, occurrence! [[Applause]] It's to come here and as if you have an absolute majority to think that it doesn't need to even address minimal questions of absolute silence, of absolute importance and absolute transcendence to the future of the country. [[Applause]] Because what we can't be changing the protection distances, one year one thing and the next year the opposite one, and that's what it has to do with the Mountain Law in this aspect of Annex II specifically. But the same thing is done with the Mining Law, with the Fire Prevention Act, it has been reformed so many times that the 2017 title should remain. If you want - and you have told the ESC and we repeat it now from the BNG here - to introduce a reform of the Law on Prevention, the Law on Mountains, the Law on Mining, the Law on the Wind Sector, the Law on Neighboring Mountains in Common Hand... of all the legislation you want, which is driven by the ordinary way a reform to allow public exposure, the debate calmed and transparent, not with the forces of opposition, but with all the organizations and social entities that have much to say in those matters, because in the end and after what is approved here tomorrow has a direct effect on people's lives. And now that Agrarian Unions touched where it had to play -- we imagine that it played well and that it touched where it had to play -- what is taken advantage of is that amendment from En Marea to go back. To retreat, in addition, in part of the dictatorship that had already been approved by the incorporation of the amendment that the People's Party presented. It's really a joke, it's a joke and it's a joke! And besides -- I insist very much on this -- it generates such great insecurity in the neighbours and neighbours that they have to comply with the law to ensure those minimum distances of protection that they are, indeed, laughing directly at people, directly from people! [[Applause]] We insist that since the BNG we will not support, but even by way of amazement, this use that is being made absolutely fraudulent of the Accompanying Law to make a legislative reform of more than twenty normative texts of a pen. And we assume that you gave them an agreement this morning and after defending something in the P. P.P., to defend something in the Commission now because they arrived in the morning and said: nothing, we're going to defend another completely different and we take advantage of Eo passing through the Piquin River and the amendment of En Marea, and we're back back. Look, it's not serious, it's not rigorous — as you like to say — and it also generates enormous insecurity for people who have to do what is approved here. For our band, well, it's about the hunting law, really... and the shabaril law I've already told you in the Commission and I'm not going to repeat it to them now. For many years, this country has had a huge problem with the boar and it seems that they also had the agreement through the processing of the Accompanying Law, when the boar crossed AP-9 to the other side. The problem of this country will not be solved with the shabaril and reducing the number of people who integrate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u39	...one hit from ten to eight. We have to talk about mountain management, we have to talk about land management, we have to talk about the management of forest buildings and agricultural activity and recovery in this country. And that requires not a law of accompaniment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u41	...but to sit down and talk about things in depth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u43	...and who knows about them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mrs. Prado del Río, the joint debate you're proposing knows perfectly that it prevents a debate in greater depth on each of the issues you face. Besides, you know perfectly — and I'm sure much better than I — that it's not a ordinary procedure, but it's a special legislative procedure; so don't try here to convince us of what it isn't. We could also agree on some of the legislative changes that you propose, but we cannot vote because you're in conjunction with many other things that we don't agree with. And look, Mrs. Prado del Río, really, it seems to me an insult that you tell us that, as two months ago, they brought it and that as we also know we can read, and that as we can also amend—it would be missing, because if for you it was surely neither could we do it!—that, therefore, this procedure has no problem and that is exactly equal to the procedure of any other law. The truth is, his own speech goes down with what he tells us. By the way, Mrs. Prado, we never insult anyone, come out here to defend our ideals and treat everyone with respect. It's not the same as your partner's elegance, it's far from our usual treatment. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs Prado del Río, I also tell you something that I moved you to the Commission, that there was an administrative problem and on the platform. I believe that you have also had a problem with similar characteristics and, of course, we will not bring it here to the parliamentary debate. For that, you have to be more elegant as well. Yes, Mrs. Prado del Río, as much as you don't like. [[Applause]] As for the budgetary regime in the Law of Measures — it has centered me on — the Government of Feijóo presents a bill that aims to reduce the amount of budgetary changes, but in a rather curious way, and is changing its name and making certain links that cover the denomination of amendments. That is to say, more obscurantism so the opposition groups won't understand these budgetary changes. That, of course, in this exercise they assumed about 10% of the total budget of the Galician Union, thus distorting the initial commitment once these budgets are approved for a given year. The Government budgetly equips several games that it then does not execute, and many that are left with levels of execution that much let it wish. Against this we, the Socialists, have tabled an amendment in which we call for the establishment of a budgetary control office in the Galician Parliament, which acts as coordinator and mediator between those control offices which provide for this law in the various councils and the Greek Parliament, so that we too can carry out a follow-up and control management of the execution of the budget and which also serves, as an advice to parliamentary groups. That's what the Socialist Party calls for, greater transparency and greater knowledge of all groups. In health care you, the government Feijóo, try to make us believe that with this creation through the back door of that staff specialist in area pediatrics, a coordinated and comprehensive health system was organized. By ensuring an interrelationship between the different levels of assistance, adapting to the principles of effectiveness, speed, economics and flexibility, they wanted to put a figure in hiding, since the People's Party's Parliamentary Group itself had to amend once the protests of the sector and citizenship came upon them. Because the Government Feijóo, over and over again, has an economical sense of public services, i.e. cost to quality; always cost to quality. In the countryside, as time is very short, I'm not going in. But it is quite curious that through the amendments you have to put what has been decided in the Special Committee on Non-Permanent Study and Analysis of Forest Policy Reforms, because this report was published on 10 August 2018. Then someone didn't do the homework. Was it the German Government, therefore, and had to amend the People's Party by putting what was approved in that report? Or is it that once again the People's Party makes reports and documents to never be fulfilled? Always do what they do, Mrs. Prado del Río, always do what they do! Look, the rural legislation, that rural legislation that defends the People's Party, reveals to us that in this legislation in two years we have in rural 1,546 less and 4,000 less busy, Mrs. Prado del Río, less! And we socialists would agree with this law if you faced issues of crucial importance to our population. Look, they have three demographic plans, and they don't seem to have any positive results; rather than throwing stones at the opposition, they have to take into account the contributions that the opposition makes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u47	Because in the Feijó government we have taken 95,000 people less, and for every under sixteen years we have two older than sixty-four.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u49	With the lowest vegetative growth in all autonomous communities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u51	...and the balance of the unemployed — already finished, Mr President —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u53	...to the governments Feijóo is that in nine years only 8,100 have been down, and the busy people have been down in 60,000.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u54	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u55	60,000 less busy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u57	...during the governments Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u59	That's your balance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u60	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u61	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u62	Well, Mrs. Prado, you know how to read and stay away from cars, too, I think you really know the difference between an ordinary legislative procedure and what you're doing here, right? [[Laughter]] What did you mean, was it with a retraction or something? I don't know if you think this, that you have to make an integral reform of the 2008 Mining Management Act, as was done last year in the Accompanying Act, is the same as doing an ordinary reform procedure of the Mining Management Act. If you think that's the case, come here and say it, there's a lot of difference and I'm not going to explain it to you, who knows about it. If you come here to defend this is that you come to practice cynicism; therefore, explain here what your position is. Of course, in order to defend this, it has again removed the wild in the Constitution, that constitution that you repeatedly violate on the most progressive issues of it: the right to work, the right to housing, the fiscal progressiveness... that they are able to change it from day to day in a pact with the Socialist Party in May 2010. That constitution is the one that makes you justify everything, the unjustifiable one, too. Well, and you said that -- this is a phrase for history -- "democratic is legal"; well, phrase for history too! I don't know if it's Churchill, Tellado, or who, but democracy is legal. Well, then you, when you put that example of Rosa Parks when you were on the bus, it was legal to racial segregation, Mrs. Prado, right? And it was democratic, did it look like you were democratic? It seemed to you democratic and it was legal. And here in frankism there were many legal things, and if there was no disobedience and there were protests and there was what you call coups of state, which is to practice democracy, there was no change in laws and we would continue towards democracy, right, Mrs Prado? That's why you're the conservatives, not the reactionaries. Because we want to change things. And then he says another sentence that, of course, when you intend to give speeches the tweet hit is what happens. The regression is to raise taxes, man, because it depends on who, if we go up to high incomes, it's not regressive, that's what the Constitution says, Mrs. Prado. Lowering taxes is regressive and progressive, it depends on who, of course, if they do like the fiscal amnesty that they did to their friends, you when they were ruling in Madrid, that's regressive. If you drop taxes on working people, that's not regressive, is it? If the IVE comes up, as you did, it's regressive. If you raise indirect taxes, it's regressive, if you raise direct taxes, it's not regressive, it's progressive. It looks like we're in Sésamo neighborhood, but it's just like that, Mrs. Prado. Tune a little bit more the argumentary, sharpen a little more. Then said Sogama, another too! It's sown, it's better than nothing. So, how do the calculations you do? We're going to give them 10%, better than nothing. All right, let's live like gales. And why not 20% when they're having 16 million profits before taxes, when that 10% is 5.6 million euros? Why not? But explain it, I'm saying it seriously, explain it. Why, what calculations do they make? When you lied that they went up to 33.5%, saying it was the payback change of the electrical system, it was a lie: they had to pay the loans involved, those ICTs that the Board of Auditors made a demolition report. We lend that — with the Galician board 51% and 49% of Fenosa Natural Gas — I wanted to charge, which could become Sogama's social capital, if you didn't want to pass the bill to people. And they didn't want to, even if there were proposals here; when they had to pay for Project Finance... well, it's all paid, liquidated, why do they want to continue giving Naturgy or Fenosa benefits? Explain. Then he talked about dialogue with Fegamp, in good hours! If you're the first critic of this from Sogama was from the Fegamp, who explained it very well, and I hope you understand it, that there are municipalities in which the service is deficient and that maybe the intervener does not approve of transferring it to the user; therefore, they have to dialogue, but they have dialogued late, once again. You're talking about how worthy it is to live on work. Since you rule, there are 42,000 more long-term unemployed. They don't have dignity, do they, Mrs. Prado? And what do you do to change this reality, with 54,000 long-term unemployed over two years without finding work. He said that we don't like the dictates of the Forest Commission, of course, we don't like it, we still like less how you apply the dictates, because they approve the 1992 Forest Plan and they have not applied it and will approve it and they won't apply it. And that's why we say we have to have resources to be able to apply the dictates, because otherwise it's pure literature...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u63	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u64	...pursue propaganda. And forest resource management plans aren't done by the art of brilbiirloque, they're done by technicians who have to work in the field and who have to know the districts, who have to have time to do those jobs. And you don't put a euro to change that reality. And then I don't protect the heritage! I'm done, Mr. President. Man, look, there are two problems here, I recognize that there are two problems: the delay in heritage reports, which suffer when cut-off permits are requested, and that's true, but there's also a problem of property aggression in the forest sector. And if you don't, take a walk through the Lugo Navy and see how many petroglyphs and how much heritage is destroyed sometimes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u66	...with cuts and plantations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u67	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u68	I'm done, something I have to say. He says 117 bis is to adapt and transfer state law here, and then, why are they removing it now in the amendments. If it's to move the state law, to remove it? If it's to bring the state law, why take it off? And that's false, that's false. And then, because they want to comply with state law, why don't they book 30% of the land for protection housing, as the state law says...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u69	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u70	...and you don't comply with the law of Greek housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u71	Thank you. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado Del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, you're going to have to teach Mr. Sánchez a lesson in democracy since we've had a constitution. Right, right? He says yes with his head. Look, Mr. Sánchez, since there is a constitution in Spain, we live in democracy and therefore all the Frankish laws have had to adapt to the Constitution; therefore, all the laws that are now in force in Spain are democratic. A law is not democratic when there is a totalitarian, authoritarian system, as can be Venezuelan or as the Franco system could be in its day. [[Applause]] What's going on is that you're constantly set up in franchise and betrayed your subconscious. Mr. Villares, you are a constitutional activist, and you have expressed it on one occasion, explain to Mr. Sanchez what that means and that, indeed, I have said that when a law is democratic — as you have said — it is legal. Don't look for any philosopher or such, I don't know if it's misoxin, think I couldn't say that phrase, but now I've happened on the march, there's no need to look for a lawyer of recognized prestige to attribute it to. Now you were talking about unemployment in Galicia. Look, do you know when the highest unemployment figures in Galicia were? In 2008, 50,000 jobs destroyed by the Bipartite. And then, you, Mr. Sánchez, were fighting at the BNG, before you took the act to Anova, before you were a fugitive from the BNG and took the conceler's act to Anova. No, no, you lost it when you talked about Franco, now! You were talking about the article of the Land Law. Look, it's not the article about state law, it's the amendment we're presenting now to what the state law says. And that's why I tell you that if you don't like it, you who now rule in the Spanish state, do what you have to do and change it, talk to your president, Mr. Sánchez, or the vice president, Mr. Iglesias — either of which is worth — and change it. Look, Mrs. Rodil, in fact, when we talk about meters away, it might be that what you say is not a technical mistake, of course, it's not because it's a technical error, it's a mistake without more, but we can admit it, but it's not a random decision, it's not a random decision, it's not a random decision, what happens is that you come here and read what Agrarian Unions says -- not saying you weren't able to read it -- and you intervened in this rostrum today and you started saying that it was a dark law, that you didn't have a public exposure, that it wasn't transparent... And I wonder how the text came to Agricultural Unions, how they were able to read it. And look, the proof that we didn't use the knee and that we didn't bring that change to harm, or torturing it, is that when Friday Agrarian Unions register in Parliament this writing we called the parliamentary groups to try to reach an agreement and try to change it. That's our intention to roll, Mrs. Rodil, that's our intention to roll, Mrs. Rodil. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Rumbo, of course it's a special procedure, but I can assure you that there are laws that have been processed by ordinary procedure that have taken him less time and fewer briefings than this law we're talking about today. Sure, Mrs. Rumbo. And look, of course I was elegant not talking about administrative errors, is that you've submitted two bugfixes. In fact, the first was an application error, and we also made mistakes — and I already recognized it in the Commission — what I can't pass to you is that you came here to tell us that this is a joke, that today we say one thing and the opposite, when you presented an amendment, an entire article — not a small amendment — once the presentation procedure has been closed, Mrs Rumbo, that is so! And that you come here to say that we prevent the debate — I did not interrupt it, I thank you for listening to me, because I was absolutely silent while you spoke —... Look, we did not prevent the debate, you who are part of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, of that government that actually knows what the quick way is. Do you know which way is fast? Well, look, the quick way is to rule and legislate the coup of decree. Thirty, thirty takes Mr. Sánchez, and they don't even pass through Parliament. You laugh, you laugh, Mr. Sánchez, the Greek. Because you rule with that lord, you give support to the President of the Government who legislates by decree, without taking him to Parliament. Yes, that's you, yes, they tried to modify no less than the Civil Code — that too can explain to Mr. Villares what it means — by decree; custody, no less than a matter of custody. Mr. Sánchez, Mrs. Rumbo, let us be told here that this is darkism, that this is transparency. Look, the lack of transparency is that, legislating by decree, and that's what you do very well in the state government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u74	...supported by the tides of Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u76	Yes, I'm done now, Mr. President. I know it's an instrument criticised by the Law of Measures, I said it may not be the best instrument, but through this legislative text we lower taxes, we introduce resources in the field of social policy — even though the Socialist Party does not want people who charge risk to be able to perform a job — and we also introduce measures to protect the environment, prevent fires and forest policy important to our country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u77	Thank you. We continue with the legislative texts. Debate and take into account the G.P. Bill. of En Marea, by regulating the system of provision of posts for the management and coordination of health institutions of the Galician Health Service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u78	Mrs Solla has the floor for the introduction of the bill, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u79	Thank you, President. Eighty percent of primary care heads resign in Vigo as a sign of protest, and resign exhausted and exhausted in the face of the abandonment of the Health Council, in the face of precariousness, in the face of the suffering they are supposed to want to do their work well and not have the material and human resources, essentially, to be able to disemploy it; this explained precisely in that alternative commission yesterday also these fellows and companions who came to talk to us about the situation of the CAP, which unfortunately is very similar and which is the general focus of primary care and public health in our country. And while those primary care heads are despised, ignored, ignored, in hospital service heads seem to shift the possibility that many of those heads and heads of service are placed in a little less than opaque way. During the last few years — if, opaque, yes — a species has been produced, a sort of purgatory of those professionals of the head of service who defend public health. As regards, of course, what should only be important, which is merit, capacity and free access to these service posts, we find ourselves with a accumulation of cases which have been known on several occasions by judgments which are losing the Health Council, in which unfortunately there are quite obvious cases of nepotism or even procedures for failure to comply with administrative procedures. This morning I almost understand myself listening to the People's Party's vice-voting saying that he was very proud of what they do in public health and saying that the people's service sheet is impeccable in public health. Justice takes a four-fold appointment from the selected board. To distribute posts among officials for free designation must be something exceptional and justified, said the legislation that violated the Galician Health Service, an absolutely impeccable service sheet. The Board justifies the appointment of several civil servants of the Galician Health Service who have annulled justice, the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. Firm judgment: "Sergas assumes the bias of adjudicating head in psychiatry in CHOU." This is the impeccable sheet of services of the People's Party and that is the pride of the management of public health on the part of the current Government. Of course you do! You must be proud of the failure to comply with the current regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, the service management system in the Galician Health Service is using in a completely discretionary and impartial way, the content of what we've just moved and what we've known in recent years. Therefore, from En Marea we believe it is time to try to put a stop to this situation, which is totally unfair, which defies our public service of having magnificent professionals, in some cases directing the heads of services—of services of the public system—and which, in addition to that of the transfer—is rather dark and exudes by the People's Party in purging those people who are not convenient to them and putting those who are with the silent mouth. There are, therefore, judgments which, of course, pay the administration, and therefore we all pay. To give us an idea of those cases we have just reported — which are the most famous cases, which we have discussed here, when we were still our dear Mrs. Rocío Mosquera in front of the Health Council, and surely her lordships will know those most known cases —: the last news I was referring to was precisely what Mr. Víctor Pedreira's situation, which led to the Psychiatry unit of the Hospitalling Complex of Pontevedra since 1982 — practically since the beginning, because it was one of the founders of that Psychiatry unit. He was separated and subsequently won a judgment already firm when, unfortunately, the professional was retired. What's left to our professionals in many cases is simply to keep track that they were right, that they did their job well, and that what's happening inside the Greek Health System is the continuity of a system that works with fingertips, as we saw also in the first news to which I referred. Or the case of Mr. José María Borro, former head of thoracic surgery in the CHUAC, who had a similar problem: the Board set it up in the 1990s, began working at the University Hospital Complex of the Coruña and, after fifteen years of work, after denouncing the fraudulent acts of other professionals who were profiting from sending Sergas patients to private clinics, he then had a medical school sanction, which was revoked and subsequently cancelled. He denounced this mafia functioning and was removed from office. Or we have these famous judgments that we have discussed here, in connection with the lightning rise of Mrs. Rocío Mosquera's husband: when Mr. Evaristo Bar, the head of Santiago de Compostela's Digestive Surgery, who also arrived in the 1990s with a Government of the People's Party, and did a very important job, putting in place the programs of liver transplantation, kidney and pancreas within the Public Health System in the Santiago de Compostela unit, was stopped — or at that time he could not enter that post — that promotion was annulled by the High Court of Justice of Galicia, which forced him to repeat the procedure, but with a procedure that — we are now going to explain — and so we have transferred this need to amend the rule — he is obviously addicted from the very beginning. There are many more examples, but I'm going to keep explaining why we bring this bill here today; these are the most known examples, and I move them because they've been debated, in addition, in this chamber on several occasions. In most cases a worse circumstance is given: many and many of the aspirants don't even become them, because they don't dare introduce themselves to a supply of posts where they know in advance, most of the time, in their service, to whom they will already be given that position. The situation is that unfortunately we have a system that is not, of course, transparent and that has totally arbitrary criteria. The current legislation — Decree No. 206/2005 of 22 July 2005 — which emanates from this legal framework of the Statute of the Framework Staff Regulations, which was also — incidentally — the last decree published within that council of the People's Party before the change of government, and which has nevertheless been regulated — it is true, in the next Government — by the Order of 24 May 2006, marks a pattern which is used in a completely wrong way, and I will put an example which is quite obvious to them. This regulation, as explained in its articulation, allows a system that is perverse, because it speaks, among other things, of the procedure by which such provision of posts is chosen. For this provision there is a technical commission composed of five members: four per proposal from the management — and we already know what happens with the agencies in our country — or with the centre or area management — one of which will have the position of chief of service — and one on a proposal from the central services of Sergas. That is, in almost all cases, the five people who have to decide and evaluate the merits and projects of those people who aspire to the heads of service are people close to the Council of Health on the turn—even now that of the People's Party; it could be any other—. We believe that it cannot be so and that the purgatory initiated to remove those annoying people must cease, because we believe that those people who ascend to a head of service must be the most fit for the job — those who have the greatest training, the greatest experience, the greatest skills — who have to work according to merit and ability and who must be the best for our public health system. Of course, the current conditions do not make this easy, because people who have to measure the barrier are not selected in an impartial way. That's the most serious problem the current legislation has. So we make a proposal that obviously goes beyond that, which has as its main objective the establishment of transparent regulation in relation to the system of provision of head posts and coordination in the health institutions of the Galician Health Service, solving this current situation in which the Health Council leaves itself left to discretion, in the capacity of decision-making within the organs, barriers and systems applicable to the choice of positions of direction. To make your lordships an idea: the barrem is usually decided after the candidates are already known, with which there is a quite obvious defect that conditions those who are finally granted that boss. They are barremos, as professionals report, ad hoc facts, which allow them to match curricula regardless of their professional experience. So, many cases of people are being given, despite their dilated career, how they don't decide or there's no homogenous criterion at the time of that barrem, they're finally penalized despite having, in many cases, more experience. And the final decision, after all these elements, is taken up by a technical project, which is a subjective assessment within this standard adopted in 2005, where, among other things, it is cited as better suited to the hospital. Of course, the criterion that better adapts to the hospital is a subjective assessment that obviously makes the people of that court, that -- chance! -- are chosen by the agencies that are currently being selected, in turn, by the Health Council. I mean, we have a perverse system in which the five people who have to evaluate professionals are directly selected by the shift councillor. So we present this rule, which does not depend on the opinions of the professionals who want to access these service heads, their political status, their ideas, the situation of the counseling at every moment, but in order to establish a procedure that is a system of choice of an organ that is completely transparent and unconditional to the decisions of no chief, of no advisor and of course, of no agency. It is therefore believed that a collective body is responsible for carrying out the procedures for the provision of those positions by means of a choice which is made in a manner which is stipulated in our proposal, not only in the general principles — Article 3 — but also in Article 5 — relating to the procedure itself — in Article 9 — relating to the evaluation — and, in particular, in relation to Article 6 — referred to the Committee on Evaluation. This collective body responsible for carrying out this post supply procedure will consist of five persons, but obviously chosen by a draw on the health sector table between the staff meeting the requirements set out in the standard itself. Two of these people will be appointed as secretary and president of the court on a proposal from the agency; therefore, there is even an organization that allows the administrations of the Galician Health Service to participate. However, in this way, it would become that problem of being the very advisor to the one that ends up deciding the barrier and deciding what people have to do that barrier and that criterion, how it happens or how it happens up to now. There's another series of news about this law, obviously not as important as this one. It's a small law but it's an important law, in our opinion, that it will end with a situation of discretion within the Health Council in choosing these heads of service, and that, obviously, if you vote in favour of this consideration, it is open to the contributions of parliamentary groups, and we believe that there is surely room for improvement in that sense. In addition, we have to say that we have introduced elements, such as the impossibility of accessing people who are convicted of crimes related to gender violence or other types of crimes that were not covered by previous legislation, which has also been positively evaluated in that gender impact report that had this bill in passing its prior procedure before it could come to this consideration, and which, therefore, allows to update in other matters also existing legislation up to this point. An evaluation that will also include the professional curriculum of the aspirants, the technical project on the management of the unit, with a reasoned report justifying those evaluation criteria described above. We'll never get back to deciding after we meet the candidatures, never get back to ad hoc, created by people chosen by the Health Council. We believe that, with everything that's falling into the Health Council, it's time that they start to correct things and get black on white about what's going on inside the public health system. There is a mantra that repeats itself continuously — and I will finish now — and yesterday we were told by the professionals, in that parallel commission, that they were tired of listening to it: that we have magnificent professions. This is always used to justify all clippings and all the problems inside the public system. Indeed, there are magnificent professionals, but on many occasions they are not allowed access to the best of their profession within their services. Let's get back to one of the problems we've had since 2005. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u81	Censorship, veto, closing the common doors of the chambers of this parliament, imposing people to appear in the fraud investigation commission... I see you bored, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Yes, the question is not at all; you should look at it; I suppose, yes, you should look at what you're doing, this fraud investigation committee, which does not surprise me that you're in that situation that makes you do those gestures. [[Mr. Núñez Centeno utters words that are not perceived.]] That fraud investigation committee that is being carried out, where you are listening to yourself, applauding yourself. [[Murmurs.]] Since 2009, in which you have returned to the government of the Union, to carry out the roadmap of deterioration of public health, of the public health system, and to carry out it in the way they are doing it, they have had nothing else to put into the key sites of the health system people who were willing to make a totally ferocious, discretionary control of our health system, including finger-nominations. Thus included nepotism. The People's Party, to execute its decommissioning roadmap of the public health system, of deterioration of the public to private glory, had to go and put on key sites people who had been — I insist — prepared to exercise, without any kind of deviation, that roadmap directed directly by Nuñez Feijóo and then executed from the advice, from the management and from the heads of service. Because this process of privatization and deterioration that suffers from the public health of Galicia, which the Government of Nuñez Feijóo began to execute as soon as he arrived at the Junta in 2009, could not be carried out without placing in key positions people completely attached to it, and those pillars of health policy were rolling all those people who could be referred to in health policy or who could at some point have made containment dams to those claims of the People's Party. And it was by dismissing these key positions people who were not willing to follow those policies, who were not willing to camouflage waiting lists, who were not prepared to implement cuts — we are seeing what is the situation in which Galicia's public health is — and who were not willing to make tips for the containment of professionals or the response of the population in the face of the consequences of those cuts. And in order to implement that roadmap they needed absolute political control of that management at all levels, including the clinician, the care provider or the teacher. And with a double objective: first, to have everything under control and then to place the family in a broad sense, in the sense of Sicilian family: family members, militants, influencers and even economic power. A power exercised through entrusion of friends, family and high office, beginning with the president's family, the health adviser, former councillors, direct relatives and even relatives of anyone who might need it. The directors of health in Galicia, including the administrations, and then heads of service, addresses and so on: appointments to the positions of directors of public health in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] And to the evidence I'm sending, public and published. I'm going to repeat some of the examples that have just been said here, but I think they repeatedly do not stop illustrating us. We can start with the cousin of the president of the board, Mrs. Eloín Núñez — yes — manager of the EOXI of Ourense, where, apart from being her manager... yes, I say how it controls public health having perfectly committed people willing to implement, against the wind and tide, against the professionals, against the population itself, the road map of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] Eloín Núñez, a direct cousin of the president of the board, was first in front of the EOXI of Ourense, and not only was she in front of it, but he tried to create that issue of emergency coordination where he put his husband directly in front of him. This is not nepotism, this is already the following, this is how the People's Party controls Galician public health. Then it goes to Santiago's EOXI, where he's doing a great job: the workers and workers of the CHUS Emergency Service, on strike for more than a month, and there's not even a solution to it. There's a death of a person at the Road CAP; she's on vacation, she doesn't interrupt her vacations at any point — we heard him here at the alternative investigation committee, because the officer didn't want to hear the family of the dead person at the Road CAP; we hear what the family member said here -- he made contact with them. Indecent! At no time, neither the manager, nor the manager's next, nor the counsellor, nor the president of the board had to get in touch with the family to tell them: we're sorry. To tell them: we feel what happened, we're going to investigate it, we're going to have you aware; we're sorry, we're going to do everything we can to keep it from happening again. [[Applause]] Not a word! Those are the leaders of the People's Party ahead. We can go on. Indeed, the former councillor — clear nepotism — dismisses the Chief of General and Digestive Surgery Service, puts her husband in front of her, and the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia decides that the process must be repeated. No, we don't denounce it, there's simply a Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia ruling that we must repeat the process of bias, power diversion... all those matters that you know perfectly well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We can continue talking about José Manuel González, former counsellor appointed director of CHOP, of the EOXI of Pontevedra. What a performance so presentable! What a resume so presentable in front of Pontevedra's EOXI! If we had time we could do here an account of how it was disposing of the EOXI service chiefs of Pontevedra. We can talk about the Chief of the Department of Management, we can talk about Psychiatry, and we can continue with the relationship. We can talk and actually follow the CHUAC... Well, in short, this is the way to name the people who are in front of public health, because if it isn't this way, they're not able to put in place, to implement the public health decommissioning roadmap of the People's Party. They need to go to this appointment system without the slightest criterion — impossible — of capacity, merit and equality. Because, if so, we find ourselves that, in fact, at this moment, twenty-five heads of service in Vigo's health area are already resigning. Or, as at the moment, the head of the Ophthalmology Service in the area of Pontevedra and Salnes resigns because he's not willing to continue hiding what they're doing with the Ophthalmology waiting lists, to put in a drawer all the people who had to be intervening and who are not doing it. In short, we are going to vote in favour of this bill presented today at Marea. If the process is accepted, we have questions on which we have nuances about things and we will make suggestions on some matters. But what is obvious is that the sole objective of this system by the People's Party, of course, is to have fully softened Galician public health the basis of having in key positions people who are only willing to defend the ideological project of the People's Party, which is nothing other than the worst public health in order to be able to implement improvements to private health, resources for private health. And, of course, every time we have worse public health and the Greeks and the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u83	...they're more sold. And those who have resources will continue to suffocate, and most, who don't, are in a situation of total self-defense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u85	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Go on the notice, Mr President, I'm going to talk about health. I'm saying that because the last time I was allowed to talk about health, then I was taken out here in this parliament. Then I say it if I may. It's okay, isn't it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u86	No one believes that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u87	No, no one believes me. No one believes it but there was a closed room, which is the first time I've seen a closed room with a key in this parliament to speak. But it's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u88	No one buys that for him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u89	No, man, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u90	You know me all over the world. No one believes that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u91	Mr. President, you play with advantage, because you're interrupting me, but no one draws attention to you now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u92	Because you messed with me too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u93	Anyway! Ah! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He's already got his attention there, don't worry. That's it! Oh, no! [[Balbordo.]] It's me! [[The President said words that were not understood.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u94	Christmas spirit. Come on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u95	It's funny, we can't talk about health, but the whole PP can talk about us. This is a very curious thing. It's very good. [[Murmurs.]] Can I talk, can't I, president? [[Murmurs.]] There's Gabriel Rufián! [[The President said words that were not understood.]] I can talk now, can't I?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u96	I'll take your time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u97	No, no, time's up. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u98	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u99	There's no doubt that the president has been sending a lot of silence in this parliament lately, it won't be a problem to send anyone to shut up. He won't close a room for you; we will, but he won't close a room for you. I guess! [[Laughter]] If the president closes a room for them, don't worry, we'll defend their right to speak, no problem. [[Murmurs.]] But in any case, I know you're defending yourself. From our group we will support the consideration of this bill; it defends a line that we defend on this issue. I believe that in the debate itself, if the consideration was adopted — Mrs Solla, allow me to be pessimistic about the possibility that the consideration should be approved; but, in any case, we would like it to be so — we could have some debate on some matter of nuance, but we actually believe it to be a bill of interest. We have tabled a non-law proposal in that sense in the committee — not similar, but if on a similar issue — and some questions to the Government about some of the cases mentioned here very correctly. And, in fact, there are only a few cases because there are several cases: there are more than one case, more than two cases, more than three, more than four cases; there are numerous cases that, through judicial proceedings, have had to prove that the Council of Galicia was occupying or investigating rights over the occupation or provision of posts of chief of service in favour of a certain candidate and in harm to other candidates, in some cases. There are several of them — as they have been mentioned — and I will mention some of them. Why do these cases happen? One is anecdote, two is a trend, three is a pattern, four is a structure. So from there, as there were more than four and more than five, we are proving with complete clarity that there is an intention of the People's Party to dominate the coordination of health areas, the coordination of health services, even by criteria that do not have to do with a clinical or purely professional issue. Why? Because there's a need to control the system until it's foreign. We are already in the debate about whether we can talk about health or not. We are no longer in the debate of those who occupy certain positions, but we are already in the debate of those who can and do not. This parliament has debated that the People's Party has banned people who cannot speak in this parliament. And when they came here to talk — because there are Members and Members of the parliamentary groups who think everyone has the right to speak — Parliament has tried to veto those appearances or words. Because in the end they're words. Anyone who defends the truth can hurt a word, if someone really thinks that talking can hurt someone. And it's true that if you think the truth is necessary to listen to it, even understanding that the truths are polyedric and have many points of view, it shouldn't be a problem to listen to anyone. But we are in that debate. And if we're already in that debate, how could it not have happened that the heads of service have gone through that process? We're talking about the fact that there's been room for management, heads of service in the health system, like the political commissioners, not professional criteria. We are deciding on people who decide on health care, and we are deciding on the basis not of their professional approach — as they have believed in judicial judgments — but by criteria of affinity, but by criteria of non-affiliation with what they were: sometimes not even by putting someone in particular, but many of them by removing someone in particular, as they acknowledged. Legal rulings which were initially said to have no basis, which were then said not to be firm, and which, after being firm, took time to execute, even some of them still without fully executing. We talked about cases where people were separated from their jobs for their only crime of thinking differently, and that they were not compensated for justice until they were retired. And, therefore, we are limiting citizens' ability to be treated in a service that is occupied or directed by people who have the highest professional capacity to do so. And all of that for a sectarian matter; some of them, some of the heads of service, for being only — what a problem! — charges in a government that was not of the People's Party. What is the message? Don't show yourself to others, that we're going to fulminate you. And that's the message they're moving through this system. So it's indecent, and how indecent we think it's important that you can defend the greatest transparency of this process. Because, if we assume that the law needs to cover all cases, it is because no space — no! — that is open to interpretation and flexibility in ethics is possible to interpret it properly. In fact, it is a democratic fraud that we have to limit so much the regulations because it means that we are not prepared — or that the Government is not prepared — to open up our understanding to a natural process of electing the best, even though the law has allowed them to lay hands on others to choose others, and therefore we must refrain from that. It's a general problem that we have to avoid so much the freedom of directors, but the biggest problem is that we have to do so because the leaders have shown that they are not able to exercise that freedom. By putting a specific case, in addition to the chief of staff, because the fact is that the case of Pedreira has already been discussed here: the case of Pedreira, the case of Temes, the case of Borro, the case of Vázquez Astray—if Millán Astray had not bothered them so much, but Vázquez Astray did disturb them—. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] One specific case that took place is very striking; allow me the example: Galaria — the public company — opened a contest to find out who was running Galaria, who was director or director manager of Galaria. The day before the contest was opened — the day before! — the president of the board and the health adviser had already warned who was going to win it and who was very good; she was the former health adviser. The day before the contest opened! There were fifteen days open for anyone to introduce himself, but the president of the board has already said who would win. But still having all the freedom — because it is — to be able to decide by free designation who it was, do they not even think it was normal, decent, reasonable, even with a little education waiting for 15 days to say so? I mean, the feeling of invulnerability about system decisions is such that one can announce before a contest is called who will win it. But everything's normal, here's all fantastic. The truth is, when I talk about this case, I remember what I was saying -- I'm sorry if I quote it incorrectly -- I think President Manuel Fraga: I'm not responsible for the PP's being smarter. Well, that'll be it! Yes, it will; yes, it may be a question of anthropological intelligence. In fact, as we said, we are faced with a system that makes decisions that affect the health system on the basis of political criteria or affinity that strangle the system. And so it happens, it's sectarianism. And that control leads — as we have seen this week and these last days — to control even what we can and cannot say in Parliament, what we can and cannot say about the system, and to hear dramatic things like what we hear these days. And I believe that I would even recommend to fellow Members and Members of the People's Party — whether they have seen it or not — whether they have seen it or not — that they listen — even if they are in private, with the office door closed inside — the interventions that were heard on Monday in this parliament. Because beyond a question of political debate, beyond planning, it's a human question, which I think we need to listen to, about how some situations are dealt with. Situations like what happened in the Road CAP, which happened because there was a bad and erratic planning that was intended to cover up by lying in this parliament. Cases like what happened there, which should lead to the automatic resignation of a counselor, and should have resigned only for that. Even just because I didn't make that call. Even because it can continue to happen again, and it can happen today, tomorrow, last morning; it can happen again what happened at the Road CAP and that's why I had to resign. I don't know, president, if you can say that, I don't know if you're gonna limit me to that. Thank you for not limiting me for that, I say. [[The President said words that were not understood.]] Even you could be better counsellor — including — would make a better health adviser, and so would you avoid closing Parliament's doors too, which is not a bad problem. And so it happens, so they say the chiefs of service to let no one listen to them. But they said it now, they said it about last year, they said it two years ago, they said it three years ago, they said it four years ago, they said it in 2012... and there's a time when they quit. By the way — that we all know — I probably — I do not ask anyone to vote, nor do I ask anyone to vote — among the heads of primary care in Vigo there are voters of all the political colors who will continue to vote on all the political colors, but who assume that it is impossible to work with this council. We are faced with a process of control and strangulation of the system that has never been seen, and the only way to get out of the debate not to go out burned is not to solve the problems, it is to try to hide that you talk about the problems and try to hide that people in the system can talk about the problems: either they are blocked or they are called heads of service above, even if justice says they are done illegally. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] So we have the ability to understand that we are working as a system. It's probably everyone's fault, sure! but we have the ability to understand that if Justice is constantly raising appointments and heads of service, if the heads of service that work are resigning, if there are people who participate in the system and who can't talk, there's an excessive system control problem. This bill tries to reformulate some issues in this sense; not all of them, but some of them important. We are going to support this consideration and we are making this new call to understand itself, at least for the sake of our system, because we are now debating not really about the system anymore, but whether we can talk about the system or not. And it's a debate that shouldn't be logical in a democratic system like ours and in a parliament where you should promote the word and you shouldn't shut the doors with keys so others won't be able to talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u100	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Mr. Torrado, one day you will realize that the presidency's decision has been right. The Presidency's decision was right. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela: Excuse me?]] Legally constituted commissions. [[Applause]] With the passing of time you'll realize. [[Applause]] No, no, that's it! [[Murmurs.]] That's it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's no more comments about that. [[Murmurs.]] Someday... [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Núñez Centeno, you have the floor. [[Balbordo.]] History will judge! Yes, yes, to see what I am, who said Fidel. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Núñez Centeno, you have the floor. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u101	When they leave me. May I? [[Pause.]] Thank you. Starting at the end, Mr. Torrado and Mrs. Prado have spoken very little about the bill that we are debating. And Mr. Torrado spoke of charges belonging to governments other than those of the People's Party, who were in chiefs and who had withdrawn them from the People's Party. And who put them in? It's a question I leave in the air. [[Murmurs.]] And he also spoke of Mr. Millan Astray. I think the president of the Deputy of Pontevedra made some posters with Mr. Millan's picture... is that the gentleman he was referring to? I think so, don't I? He's in Europe Press, if you want me to show him the sign too. He's here. [[Murmurs.]] If you want me to show you, okay? [[Mr. Núñez Centeno shows an image on his mobile.]] Good. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, Mr. Torrado: Cayetano Rodríguez Escudero, current conceler of the corporation of Vigo, manager of the Mexoeiro — by the way, that of Aspergillus —; Mr. Julio Villar, director of the General of Vigo; Mr. Jose Carlos Aval, manager of the Medtec — now Galaria. All these are charges of the Socialist Party. [[Murmurs.]] And with regard to Mrs Prado... I didn't say anything, while you said nothing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs Prado of the law didn't say anything either. He failed to accuse me of being president's cousin because we agreed on the name. Any day he accuses me too. I am not President's cousin, Mrs. Prado, I give you my word of honor. And live or feminism! I mean, the only merit Mrs. Eloína Núñez — the woman — is to be the president's cousin. Welcome! It's the only merit you recognize. All right! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] With regard to Mrs Solla's intervention: perhaps Mrs Solla feels more proud of the municipal government of Santiago de Compostela, the tidal government, since it turns out that the names of the area directors were known in the press before the squares were called. Yes, sir, that's a first division detail. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, sir! And besides, Mrs Solla, you have lost a magnificent opportunity to reject and condemn the words of your MEP -- well, I don't know if it's yours or not, because now, frankly, it's hard to know -- before the organization of an act in Vigo where the vaccine of the papilloma virus, related to cervix cancer, and the seizure of breast cancer, is rejected. I would like to hear what some feminists would say — which, of course, were not heard in this case — whether the People's Party had removed the vaccine from the papilloma virus or closed the breast cancer. Senda rain! You, Mrs. Solla, who always considers herself a defender of public health and a defender of feminism, I believe that I should strongly refuse and condemn the attitudes of your alleged companion. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, let's talk about the law, then. They bring to this plenary a bill for the provision of post offices and coordination of health institutions of the Galician Health Service. And, of course, it doesn't seem very appropriate to bring it right now, since they just resigned -- as it was said here -- twenty-five heads of service, who seemed not to be from the PP because they resigned, didn't they? He also resigned the Head of Emergency Service of the CHUS, who was a unionist of UXT at the time he was appointed Head of Service of the CHUS by Mrs. Eloine; he was a unionist of UXT. If you want one more example, the head of service at my center was released from the IGC union and, after ten years of government of Feijóo, you're still head of service at the Carballo Health Center. Well, those are the people at the PP that we have in the heads of service. Then, here we spoke of thousands and thousands and hundreds of thousands of cases of chiefs of service who went to trial. Mr. Torrado said he was going to talk about five or more and he didn't get to that number. Mr. Bustamante, for example, the husband of the Counsellor: indeed, it was necessary to repeat the tender for the head of service, but it turns out that, with a whole new court, he then won the chief service square again. Other cases mentioned here I'd rather not talk because maybe I'm in a fight and I'd rather not talk. [[Murmurs.]] You claim that the previous situation left aside the discretion of the Health Council of decision-making capacity with regard to organs, barriers and systems applicable to the election of executive positions. Well, the decree was indeed of the last days of the Government of Fraga, but there was complete possibility of modifying it, and it was changed in 2008. And do you know why you've changed, Mrs. Solla? To replace the score of the opposition with the score of the contest. In other words, the decree showed that the opposition valued the knowledge and skills of what was presented at an opposition square — I mean service bosses squares — and what they did was to increase the score of the competition phase. Nothing else has changed at all. And then, indeed, you talked about that there is an order, although not quoted it in the proposal documentation — which, by the way, I really liked it now that I remember, which you said that what was to score and value was the dilated professional career; I didn't know that the service heads intend to give themselves by antiquity, I didn't understand it very well. That order we are talking about is the one that develops the basis of the procedure for providing the posts of chief and coordination of health institutions of the Galego Health Service. And that order is practically the one you copy to make this bill, although, by the way, it's much more detailed than your bill. The general legislation mentioned in the background is also applied to the selection of jobs of the autonomous body, including positions of chief, coordination or special responsibility. In all the above, we think that this bill is unnecessary in terms of which it is presented, because most of its articulate is compiling provisions already in force, with the only particularity of incorporating some small nuance or partial proposals that do not alter the substance of the rule in force. For example, he cites in the proposal the need for members of the evaluation committee to be staff statuarial, and the order I have said to him textually: "All members shall have the status of permanent staff or staff of the health categories of the higher classification group or holder of the same level of care teaching place" or, likewise, that these persons are elected by technical and professional criteria, which is also covered by that order, as could not be otherwise. Many of the specific regulations that you have previously commented on reproduce them in an almost mythical way in the bill. What you qualify for in the explanatory statement is "new requirements adapted to social demands", such as the obligation to ensure gender parity in designated persons or to prevent them from competing, both in order to be part of the commission and in the regulated positions, persons with conflicts of interest in the private sector linked to the position of responsibility to whom they opt or persons with convictions for crimes against the Public Administration or corruption in business, crimes against public health, as well as those that address freedom or sexual compensation. They are all aspects which already bind and apply to current supply procedures, both by virtue of the legislation itself to which it refers and other provisions of a legal nature. So it specifically affects those aspects of the proposal that constitute some novelty with respect to what is in the current legislation, that modification and the content of the proposal results in the People's Party at least questionable. In the election of members of the evaluation committees, what is proposed is that they be formed by five selected persons by draw made by the sectoral health table. In the functions of the health sector table there is nothing — for nothing in the functions regulated by law — that possibility; that is to say, it appears to negotiate and appear matters relating to the selection of staff and the provision of squares, including the overall offer of employment of the health service, but not the realization of material acts that form part of the processing of proceedings, as is the case with the choice of members of each court. And on the other hand, it makes sense that the collective assessment of persons candidates for health management is carried out by a specialized technical commission appointed by the convening body, in accordance with the powers of regulatory and judicially recognized organization. The designation of persons who form part of the selection courts is part of an essential principle, which is the right to assess knowledge, and this designation must adapt to the mandate established by both basic state laws and autonomous legislation: that public administrations, entities and bodies shall select staff through procedures guaranteeing the principles of transparency and objectivity in the development of processes and in the functioning of the selection bodies, as well as the impartiality and professionalism of their members and the independence, confidentiality and technical discretion in their conduct. Thus, the prevention of drawing to ensure the impartiality of the persons who make up the evaluation committees is unnecessary in the light of the applicable legislation, and it may even be inconvenient that, in procedures in which it is intended to evaluate a technical project on the future management of a clinical service unit for four years — it is not the evaluation of a curriculum, it is to evaluate all the work done in the previous four years — those in charge of evaluating them arise directly from a draw, without ensuring that they have the perspective, professional trajectory or sufficient knowledge to do so. On the other hand, the current specific regulation of the provision of posts of responsibility of the Galego Health Service already collects in identical or substantially similar terms the aspects related to the principles, general regime, procedure, evaluation commission, summons, requirements of the aspirant persons and evaluation of the performance of the head of office contained in the bill, so we consider that it is not necessary to take into account its proposal of law. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u102	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Replica from the author group of the bill, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u103	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to thank the support of the opposition groups. Mr. Centeno, if you want to learn something about feminism, you'll learn a new concept today: manspraying, where men tell women what to say. Of course, you're not going to tell us what we have to think about, say or decide on our interventions, not here in this parliament or outside it. [[Applause]] You should learn a lot of men about this concept. And, finally, obviously, talking about a dilated career is talking about professional experience, Mr Centeno. You didn't prepare the intervention, you didn't often read what it had to do with the composition of that organ that we propose, that organ that we collect, and you intend to transfer a series of subjective evaluations that are not contained in the text itself. You should read it well. It seems unnecessary to you to include part of the content that we introduce as a novelty or as an element that is positive to include in a regulation that is outdated in this sense — as I have already mentioned and you have read from the exposure of motives that are being explained — relating, for example, to the impossibility of accessing persons with conflict of interest or with obvious incompatibilities, or persons who do not meet the requirements of crimes against sexual indemnity or related to gender violence, or to convictions against public administration or business corruption, and who are not included in the current standard. And in addition, it would be good if you had agreed with the Vice-President, because the report — I repeat — on the qualification according to the gender impact of this bill by the Vice-President — the Secretariat of Equality, in this case — makes a positive assessment saying that it is necessary to update the legislation in that sense and that it is necessary to progressively update the introduction of aspects of gender throughout the current legislation; in this case, in autonomous legislation, but also in the rest of the legislation. So it's not understood that you are supposed to have a problem that we introduce gender criteria or criteria that people with crimes about sexual indemnity, freedom or even public health, which do not have to do with equality, but which are elements that are not right now in the decree or in the order that is given in relation to service. We made a proposal and you said here it was frankly questionable. If it's questionable, why don't we vote for it and discuss it? What's the fear of the People's Party? What problem do you have continually — lately — with withholding information, preventing debate, not discussing what is wrong? If you propose a different proposal of regulation, it's a problem; if you keep part of the previous order, it's a problem too. Calm down, Mr. Centeno. We have a situation in which there is, essentially, in current legislation, a circumstantial problem directly related to who bears the burden and who values the persons and the merits of the service heads. I repeat again: five people selected by the Health Council finger. That's what needs to be changed. In order to prepare for this change, we value the legislation in force in the different autonomous communities and other rules on how the provision of services is regulated; in fact, there is another community governed by you in which you have changed relatively recently, which is the Madrid Community. But you've got deaf ears to check what's wrong. And look, we have no interest in any of the heads of service being occupied by any person by political criteria of no color. We want those heads of service to be occupied by people who have proven their competency and who have a project evaluated correctly, and that the criterion is the same for all of us. The reality is that before they grant those heads of service, the aspirants — or not aspirants — know who they will be given. Please! [[Murmurs.]] They are clear cases of nepotism and swelling within the Galego Health Service, known by all, which undermine the professional career of many people who might be doing magnificent work in the face of different services, but which, in addition, constitute a more element of lack of democracy in this system, in the public health system. And we're fed up now, lately, that we don't want to give any debate about a situation that is coming to a point that, as your lords know, and as they know for all the protests and for all the problems that are going on today, yes and day also in the media, is becoming really unsustainable. It's a shame you're not here to take advantage of the time you have left in that chair. It's a pity I'm not listening to this debate. And it's also a pity that you weren't yesterday to listen to this forbidden and censored debate by the presidency of this parliament, because it seems that you can't hear the voices of the people who bother, as it does in the heads of service. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, Reform of Law 9/2011, of 9 November 2011, of the public media of audiovisual communication of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u105	For the presentation of the bill you have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u106	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. They will remember — who was at least — that, in the historic demonstration convened on 8 September, the workers and workers of the Galician Radio and Public Television Corporation demanded that the speeches cease to be just words and that, who we have the possibility and responsibility to act, we encourage necessary measures to ensure public media and, above all, free. Today, since the Galician Nationalist Block, we have defended the reform of Galician Public Audiovisual Media Act to advance the necessary legal reform to depolitize Galician Radio and Television Corporation. They said in September workers and workers that if changes in the leadership of these public communications companies are linked to changes in government, it's almost impossible to fight political interference. That is why we propose to reform — at least today to begin the process with regard to this bill — the Law 9/2011 and to introduce the public tender as a procedure for the selection of persons belonging to the General Directorate and the Board of Directors of the CRTVG. We therefore accept the demands not only of the CRTVG staff, but also of the proposal already made by the Federation of Journalists' Unions, which has long been demanding changes and initiatives so that the public radio and television authorities — all of them — are elected by public competition between persons of recognized qualifications and professional experience, not by their political affinity with the government of turn. The Network of Journalists' Professional Colleges, which includes nine professional colleges — including Galicia’s — is also claiming that the Presidency and other direct public media positions cease to leave a market of names more or less of the taste of the parties to be elected through open and transparent processes that assess merits, professional trajectories, proven capabilities and proposals for action in the future they intend to carry out. Yesterday, the Network of Professional Colleges of Journalists made public a new manifesto urging the quality, professionalism, independence, plurality and viability of the public as a fundamental service to ensure the right of universal access to information, which is a human right; a demand in which the professionals integrated into the collective defends Galicia and CRTVG's Intercenter Committee. So from the BNG we propose, with this law, with this proposed reform law, to follow the path outlined by professional entities, a path already initiated by other corporations closer or closer to our surroundings. First, by Radio and Public Television in Valencia in 2006, the old Canal Nou. They will remember that it was closed and closed after it was dismantled and the manipulation of its professionals for years by the People's Party, the same People's Party that now uses South Canal as currency of exchange in negotiations to do with the Andalusian Government. They negotiate the closure of the public media, they trade with the rights and fundamental services that belong to the whole population of each territory. And secondly — I say that you started Valencian Public Radio and Television — more recently, this same year 2018, you also started this process of selecting your management bodies through public competition to the Spanish Radio and Television Corporation. The selection of both the Directorate-General and the Board of Directors by public tender is not free of tension, tirapuxas, debate, attempt — for sure — to exercise control and political pressure; that is evident and it would be childish to think otherwise. More is a fundamental democratization element. And we say from the BNG that it is a democratizing element for three reasons, basically: First, by transparency; transparency in relation to the policy of dispatch, in front of the negotiations of table camilla. As we have put it, the proposed law reform sets light and tachygraphs throughout the process, requiring all proposals to be made public, all evaluation reports and all decisions taken. Secondly, as a guarantee of participation by and professionals in the communication, setting a minimum period of ten days for trade union organisations and professional and associative bodies in the field of communication to make their proposals for the creation of the commission of experts responsible for the evaluation of applications. And thirdly, to depolitize the process and the Corporation itself. The public competition breaks the inertia installed in the CRTVG during these more than thirty years of existence, allowing any professional to apply for the qualifications, training and professional prestige conditions established in the call, which must be assessed by a committee of experts, persons who must believe that professional competence is recognized in the field of communication and must have an accredited experience, always respecting the balanced presence between women and men. It will be this committee which will carry out a thorough assessment of the persons competing for the public invitation to tender, making public the evaluation reports and raising a proposal for selection to the permanent control commission so that it will subsequently be ratified in the plenary by a majority of two-thirds. In the reform we propose that Parliament be the one who will agree and push the call and draw up the bases of the public contest, although there is no audiovisual authority in our country, even though it is expected to be set up by the Public Audiovisual Media Act 9/2011 of Galicia. That law, through the last fifth provision, fixed a period of nine months for the Galician Union — that year 2011 — to send to this chamber a bill that would collect the functions and the procedure of both selection and action of that audiovisual authority. So far it has not been created, and seven long years go by: 2,555 days, most of them skilled. Someone will have to explain why it's not created. Sometimes, I think you have to ask yourself who makes the decisions when you don't create an entity that must also carry out an external control mission from the professional field. Who performs the functions of that audiovisual authority every time it's not created? For the body of the Galician Union with competence in audiovisual and social media: the General Secretariat of the Media, look there! Or, failing that, there would be another body, which is the CATA, the Advisory Council on Telecommunications and Audiovisual: it was created in 1995, has a composition of one hundred and eighty people — unmanageable — and has no activity, at least, since October 2010, which was the last time its permanent commission met. It's an absolutely dead organism that doesn't even answer those questions for which it was designed and created. Ladies and gentlemen, the current situation of CRTVG is unsustainable. It is unsustainable and, in addition, that unsustainability becomes evident every black Friday, and goes thirty; it becomes evident with each partial unemployment, with each strike and mobilization called by the collective Defense of Galicia and the Inter-centre Committee. Tomorrow they start a twenty-four-hour strike, which will continue to give continuity to these partial labors of November, and there is another twenty-four-hour strike day also called for on December 22, coincident with the fate of the Christmas lottery. Since 2011, the current Directorate-General and the Board of Directors have failed to comply with the Media Act, refusing to create the Information Council, to draft the professional status and to sign the programme contract, all provided for in Law 9/2011: Articles 36.1 and 36.2 and Article 33. However, among all non-compliances — and not few — one of the most serious for the proper functioning of Galician Public Radio and Television Corporation is the maintenance of the General Directorate in the hands of a person who has not been elected by the procedure laid down in the applicable legislation since 2011, but is maintained after being elected to the finger, and is maintained, in addition, in a situation of extended interintensity sine speaks through an additional provision of the Accompanying Law of the year 2016. The Law of Accompaniment which applies to us both for strips of protection, for the Law of Mining, for the wind competition or to maintain sine die, eternal life—everything points to what it will be like—the current director general. A General Directorate that doesn't count on the support of the staff or on the support of two-thirds of this chamber, as required by Law 9/2011 itself, which was also evidenced last September, when the plenary voted for the reprobation proposal under the Galician Nationalist Block. The public media must only care for the interests of those who support them, and that's not Galician Union, it's the Greek people and the workers and the workers of this country. From the BNG Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that, in order to guarantee the right of all people in Galicia to have an audiovisual system that reflects reality objectively and impartially, it is necessary to unlink the designation of the Government's CRTVG Directorate and promote the selection of persons who are members of the Governing Council and the General Directorate itself through a public contest, strengthening their independence and the development of the public service mission under strict professionalism criteria. That's why we drive this reform, which is not a point of arrival, but a point of departure to recover public media to the service of the country: start the process of renewing the governing bodies of the CRTVG through a public contest so that people who run the Galician Radio and Television Corporation stop being the executive arm of the Union and the broadcasting belt of the advocacy cabinet of the People's Party. They said in that historic demonstration, in September, the workers and the workers of CRTVG: "We are neither we nor must be the communication cabinet of any government, whatever colour it is. We're not even the speaker of your messages. It is neither our mission nor our responsibility to change or extend executives, change or perpetuate voting intentions. Don't let anyone convince you otherwise." A new governance is what we are proposing today to this plenary of the Galician Parliament. This new model of governance implies a change in the model, and goes through greater social representation in decision-making bodies, training requirements and parliamentary consensus. And the consensus — and this is over — is not imposed, is built. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. Round of the other parliamentary groups. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u108	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Last Thursday, after the traditional press round of the Board of Trustees, a graphic reporter from Spanish Radiotelevision was asking the president if he would make any comment about the fact that he was already celebrating the gratifying black Friday at CRTVG. Exactly the conversation was the following: Mr. President of the Board, tomorrow is summoned on Black Friday in the Greek media, thirty now. Do you plan to take any action on this or do you have any comments to make? The president of the board, quite apocalypse — all you have to say — flung the sheets that were on the table, answered him: I answered him with a lot of interest, what happens is that my duty is to answer the reporters. [[Murmurs.]] In the face of this lack of respect, in the face of this attitude, this Trump mode that adopted Mr Feijóo, in the presence of a person who now distributes also as a journalist in our country, we ask him, in the face of this pride attack that gives him every time he falls his face, he apologizes to this professional and to all the professionals of the Greek public. [[Applause]] We will repeat this question and ask it to be transmitted by the spokeswoman of the People's Party, since she is not in the Chamber right now, and we will repeat this question on behalf of all professionals and of the 254,552 citizens and citizens who voted for this political formation: do you plan, Mr President, to take any action in the face of the situation of CRTVG or have any comments to make? Because it's true, ladies and gentlemen, that, as professionals say on many occasions, there is no journalism and no journalism. But whether there is a president of the Union who does not respond to citizenship — whether they vote or not — is not a symptom of good health for our democracy. [[Applause]] The situation of CRTVG, the current situation, is undoubtedly the worst since it was created over thirty years ago. The workers and the workers have been mobilising for more than six months, and this week it's already the 1st-Friday Black. There was, as has already been said here, a massive mobilization, a massive demonstration in Santiago de Compostela on 8 September, the intermittent arrests in November and two days of strike that are convened for tomorrow and this Saturday. By the way, they remain unlearned: again, minimal abusive services, despite the fact that there was a judgement by the Galician High Court of Justice condemning CRTVG and also the German Government for minimal abusive services at the feminist strike on 8 March. And why? Why these mobilizations? Why did mobilizations never happen until they reach this level? So look: an informational manipulation of such a calibre that led, before the summer, to resign Tati Moyano and Alfonso Hermida as presenters of the Telexornal. The removal of the local disconnects from Radio Galega within months of the municipal elections. Of course, it must be by chance that, from seven cities, the People's Party only governs in one, in Ourense, and in Ourense, the only thing to count for years is that we are the only capital of the province of all Spain that has no budgets, with a mayor who was absolutely unable to approve them. Of course, in this situation, what did they do? [[Applause]] So call CRTVG and say: municipal news blackout, we don't want it. The suppression of the Cultural Diary after more than twenty-eight years and a production of its own that continues to diminish despite these adulterated data that they give, where they also count the recasts. Something very serious: a repressive policy, own of totalitarian regimes, against the workers and workers of CRTVG who dare to raise their voice and denounce what is happening in our public media; workers and workers we return to, once again, thank them for their courage and their insistence, which is a demonstration not only of their professionalism, but also of their public service commitment to the Greek society. [[Applause]] Let's remember that disciplinary file opened to Tati Moyano for having boldness, for daring to say in front of the president of the Galician Union, in a gala of the Spanish Association against Cancer, which was manipulation, or insinual. But you didn't learn; you had to close that information file because of the mobilizations of the workers and the workers. And they're back in charge, now against another worker -- the speaker Carlos Jiménez -- as punishment not only for being a person meant in these mobilizations, but also after winning the public over eleven judgements in the courts. The strategy, ladies and gentlemen, seems clear: to charge against the most media to frighten the people behind the cameras or those who are hired and those who don't have so much visibility. But they're not afraid, and so they've been showing it in the last few months. But, above all and fundamentally, they are mobilising for a flagrant breach of Law 9/2011, of public media. We're going to review these failures again; we did it the other day when we asked the Vice-President of the Council of Galicia for this topic, without getting an answer, as it seems to be. Article 5 Duty of public service: failure, because the Galician TV and Radio Galega are not providing a public service, they are providing a service to the People's Party. Article 23. Appointment of the Director of CRTVG. We repeat it again, as has already been said here: it must be appointed by this majority of two-thirds in the first vote and three-fifths in the second. Since 2015 it has been extended through this Accompanying Law of 2016, an act that clearly also serves against what this law says. Article 27. Counsellor. Article 33 Purpose of the public service: this program contract which follows without existence. Article 36: draw up the professional status and set up the Information Council, what are they for? Well, no less than to strengthen the quality, professionalism and independence of the information content, which does not exist either. Article 39: ensuring the right of access through the participation of representative social and political groups. Well, it's only necessary to see the impact that opposition initiatives have on the public media. That's not to mention the mobilizations of public health in Galicia, which are completely hidden in the news, both on radio and on television. Article 48 Parliamentary control of the programme contract: of course, there cannot be because there is no programme contract. Up to the additional layouts and the transitions are failing. Mrs. Rodil, we can't know whether or not this law works; we can't know it because it's just the articles that are dedicated to ensuring the pluralism and public service of CRTVG that don't meet seven years after the approval of this law. We are going to vote in favour of this bill. We're not, of course, going to be a trap to debate again and to improve what can always be improved, and more when it's been seven years. The truth is, your proposal doesn't change the current situation too much: they just touch I think four articles in forty-seven of the law. It's just what they do is they create a public contest, which we have to say is it's through an expert committee that's also appointed by political groups; that's also what needs to be specified. With which, the only thing that can ensure that the current situation in our public media is that there's a government in Greece that doesn't consider the public media to be its property, that there's no president in the Galician Union who says he doesn't see television. Of course, you don't need to see her because he says it himself or tries to dictate to CRTVG professionals as if they were his communications office. And that doesn't change, it doesn't change with a law; it changes in elections, gentlemen. We really believe that what is lacking in this case is the political will of those who are in the Government to disregard the standards that we all have given ourselves; also with regard to democracy and the political plurality of Greek society, which, despite the absolute majority, exists, ladies and gentlemen, exists. Because it is up to those who confuse most absolutes with absolutism and those who consider — and that is what really needs to be changed — that CRTVG's public property is public property of the People's Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea to Mrs Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Indeed — we have said it, and we have repeated it — the conflict of the CRTVG is a conflict that affects the entire Greek public system and the whole of Greek citizenship. Having said this, we have to consider that tomorrow's strike, the 22nd strike and the 30th black Fridays are not done because they do. In three decades of CRTVG's history, there has never been such a prolonged mobilization in time and crowd. Because not only did the journalists and the journalists, the mountaineers, the camera operators, the production personnel go out on the street, we've come out many and many of us defending what's all about the Germans: public television. That mobilization, therefore, is a historic mobilization. The answer is to make deaf ears, when what the Intercenters Committee demands as much as the Defense of Galicia platform is simply the full defense of the law, the full compliance with the law. Of course, the Journalist College defends the total legitimacy of claims, since they are committed to the right to information of the citizen, a right that also requires compliance with a law that has been in force for seven years. Exercising the right to discrepancy through commitment to professional obligations cannot be punished or sentenced to ostracism; on the contrary: the quality of information and the deteriorating working climate would benefit greatly from an open dialogue that must take place in all means and which is not being produced. We need and support, therefore, public media worthy of all and all: multiple, impartial, fair, free, independent and truthful, honest journalism, against the interests of others outside the profession, without bites, no censorship, no sanctions, no manipulations, no practices that are ethically intolerable — such as modifying the work of editors and editors — without interference or reprisals that are irrational and that are closer to corruption than democracy. There are many examples of lack of hygiene and lack of democracy, very, very alarming and very worrying examples. The answer — mentioned here — by Mr. Alberto Núñez Fexóo — if, Fexóo — to a graphic reporter could be kind, could be dignified, and what is an answer, in the face of a matter of such great interest, of cowardice, of contempt; it is an outrage answer. [[Murmurs.]] A wonderful author who writes highly recommended articles, listening to Mr. Alberto Núñez's response, associated him with a book — which is also recommended for all Members and Members who like to read — by Maurizio Ferraris. The book has a spoken title: Imbecility is a serious thing. It's a very serious thing. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The question of the graphic reporter — journalist — is a worthy, simple, relevant, well-accurate question, a question that we all have and that should have asked him fifty thousand journalists in any press round in these six months. And we reiterate the question: do you plan to take any action or make any comments? To this question Mr. Alberto Núñez Fêsóo answered by saying: it's a matter to which I could answer, I have something to say. It's serious that he says this. Part two: we add something serious with something more serious and it's very serious, it's very serious! The second part of the answer is: but I don't have to answer to a graphic journalist. We wouldn't have a picture of Mr. Alberto Núñez if there weren't any graphic journalists. This, which is so serious, what defines is the idea of the public, the public service, and the media that has this government and the current management, which uses CRTVG as a means of propaganda itself. This of considering CRTVG as a private cost seems to have a lot of income, and caciquil manipulation, of course, gives substantial election results. To assert that he has no competence, to say that he is not consulted and that he does not see Galicia is nothing but shame, too much shame. They're breaking the law and the answer is silence. Shame! What a shame! Our parliamentary group will support the admission of the procedure for the proposed law of the BNG because it believes that the renewal of the current leadership is only the first step. In Marea it argues that the Directorate is elected by public tender, of course: it is the only option capable of ensuring independence and plurality. It is true that the PP has already amended the law once; it has done so through the General Budget Accompanying Act of 2016, with a reform which, in practice, I assumed to maintain indefinitely Mr Sánchez Izquierdo, thus avoiding being replaced by a person who has been evaluated, at least two-thirds of Parliament — from this parliament — which means fifty seats. What does that mean? That, if not achieved, I would force it to be supported by at least three fifths, and, in any case, by some group more than just the Group of the People's Party. Of course, it's a laugh, isn't it? [[Murmurs.]] He did it behind him and in a way, of course, nothing transparent. The workers and workers point to Alfonso Sánchez Izquierdo, who has been in charge since May 2009 — who, by the way, has a higher salary than the president of this government himself, if they didn't know it — as the most responsible for information manipulation practices. The current director and his successor heads of information services on Radio and Galician Television designated by him are systematically failing to comply with the legal obligation to ensure the objectivity, veracity and pluralism of information. And this has even been taken to the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament, if the question is serious. We have the responsibility to support the demands to return to the Corporation the credibility and prestige that must never be lost, and the right, above all, that has all citizenship, to information, which has been kidnapped by the People's Party. It is essential to reach agreements. I suppose you won't be prepared or willing to reform this necessary article. We consider this to be the first step. Article 14 and Article 15 and the fourth transitional provision are important if they are to be reviewed and modified, because we are talking about effective policy tools that can enable the eradication of political interference in newspaper work. With regard to 14, the election and appointment of the Governing Council, it is very important that this plurality be contemplated and, of course, that persons who are proposed to be part have justified their recognized excellence and experience. With regard to the experience and the recognized prestige, the candidatures must also appear — and we also agree — before an expert committee. And to finish, it's very important to ensure this renewal, to foster consensus and to end the interference, reprisals, opacity and shame to which the People's Party is submitting the public media that are all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Arias Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u112	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the BNG brings here the consideration of the amendment of Law 9/2011, of audiovisual media in Galicia, the same BNG that a few months ago had brought here - and even in its intervention today too - the need to comply urgently and in all its parts with the Media Law in Galicia. The same was what he asked for in September in Marea: the fulfilment of Galicia's audiovisual media law. On the other hand, the PSOE asked that the Law on audiovisual media be amended twice in Galicia. And they all have in common that some have supported what others asked for; that is, BNG, PSOE and En Marea are asking at the same time to change the law and to comply. Let's see, what do we do? A little serious. [[Murmurs.]] What do we do? [[Murmurs.]] Because if you don't know what you want, you can hardly talk to yourself about this with something serious. Because, really, with the shuttles that you have about CRTVG, you can hardly take them seriously. You're the only one who's demonstrating is very little credibility and a lot of opportunism on this subject. Well, we have always kept and maintained the same criterion: the law is a good law and it is being fulfilled, even though we agreed with you that it would be desirable to be faster. But if you're doing it, and changing half the way that works doesn't seem like a good idea. CRTVG is a leader in hearings, has sound accounts, is Europe's best technologically equipped and scrupulously guarantees the mandate of public service and independence from the Executive. It is a law that is born to modify the former by adapting to the new economic context and the new technological context; therefore, it is a law that facilitates that technological adaptation and improves economic efficiency to the point where the director can be terminated if he does not fulfil that mandate of economic efficiency. With which, you have to see where the CRTVG of the Bipartite would have to be, just as you left it. But if that mandate is fulfilled: this law guarantees independence, objectivity and the veracity of information, strengthens Parliament's ability to control and the independence of the Executive and introduces substantial changes in government bodies, precisely to promote and to make clear that independence of the Executive and the professionalization of its management. By the way, it's a text that has been agreed between the Socialist Party and the People's Party, so it's even more surprising the amendment to the whole that in recent months is repeatedly doing the PSOE with regard to this law. And look, I don't want to be misunderstandings, because if you're wrong, you might think that you don't care about anything like the law and how CRTVG is, what you care about is deleting any footprints from some leader who is no longer in the PSOE and who has participated in the conformation of this law. But I don't want to be misunderstood. [[Murmurs.]] And with regard to En Marea, I think it's just a matter of being a little more sincere, because with the statements that have been made here, I thought they were given just as much as they were dedicated forty seconds than four minutes to an information, which the important thing is "difame, that something remains"... what you would have to do is be more sincere and do as Paul Iglesias, who clearly says: for you ministries, for me televisions. [[Madam Cuña Bóveda utters words that are not perceived.]] And you've already done it on Spanish TV. [[Murmurs.]] Tell him clearly! What happens to you is that you're nostalgic and what you'd like is to go back to that time of the Bipartite. [[Applause]] But, finally, you better not talk about her, you better not remember her. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Rodil, what exactly bothers you with the current Board of Directors? That they were elected by the majority of this parliament? Don't you think it's enough assurance? Or is it perhaps bothering you to be a joint board of directors, following, by the law's recommendation? Because, look: you speak in your proposal for parity today, but only parity for the committee of experts; an expert committee, by the way, that proposes that it be whoever designates it by Parliament; that is yes, three groups of Parliament. Yes, gentlemen! That's an ad hoc regulation, of course! Maybe you don't know if it's happened that with that idea of parity there's never going to be a Spanish TV, because of the 20 candidates proposed there are only four that are women. But finally, we'll talk about Spanish Television later, because you have a lot to talk about today. Perhaps, Mrs Rodil, do you not like the decisions that are being made on that board of directors to be by consensus? Maybe you don't like it? Because, look, decisions are being made: in 2017 the Regulatory Standard of Advertising is approved and in 2018 the Editorial Board Criteria. These two rules are necessary in order to be able to approve the professional status and the Information Council; by the way, texts in which we are already working after the meetings with the unions. And, frankly, if you are continually asking that this law be complied with and that it be complied with now, how can you want to change the Board of Directors now, when you are about to draw up and approve the professional status and the Information Council? Does the future of CRTVG really matter to you? Honestly, I think he doesn't care much. And, precisely, you are talking about independence from the Executive: precisely, that independence from the Executive is why it is said that the mandate of the Executive will be five years — sorry, with respect to the Executive not, with respect to this Parliament — so that they do not have to be subject to merely a lawmaking; that is why it is put. But look, Mrs. Rodil: I don't mind, but I am quite surprised by all the opposition, and especially from you for being a media professional, who don't worry at all — or if you're concerned, that I am sure you do care, but here it doesn't show it because it's not right at the same time — the most important challenges the Corporation has to face for the next few years: not a minute to talk about the Corporation's adaptation to technological advances, nor how to cope with the competition of new digital platforms, nor the new forms of consumption, nor the impact of the new digital dividend. The future and survival of CRTVG I sincerely believe that, as far as you can see, they don't really care. Because, look, you've been looping for months talking about supposed manipulations that have been denied over and over again. One more time you're lying! 40 seconds from Gürtel, for setting an example, I've been very busy here, but it's funny that example, because as you don't care, because I tell you it's not the same... it's not the same 40 seconds as five minutes and ten seconds! [[Murmurs.]] [[One honourable Member speaks words which are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u113	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u114	Look: lack of plurality is spoken here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u115	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u116	You can't talk about lack of plurality when there are more than a hundred people on Radio and Television who daily expose their opinions, all their ideologies and all their fields. Here it was said that there was no Cultural Diary, that the Cultural Diary had disappeared. Mystery! [[Murmurs.]] The EXM says that forty-five thousand listeners connect with the Cultural Diary from Monday to Friday, and 100 thousand at the end of the week; they have 100 minutes a day. Please! [[Murmurs.]] Again and again he denied his accusations of manipulation. Not one single complaint in any court against CRTVG, not one single complaint from the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u117	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u118	In the Bipartite: four years, twelve complaints. Ten years, zero complaints. [[Murmurs.]] That's the balance. By the way, those who like the example of Spanish Television so much, I want to tell them that Rosa Maria Mateo has just been condemned to readmit today... yes, yes! [[Balbordo.]] To re-admit Álvaro Zancajo as responsible for Channel 24 hours, because it has been shown that what is done on Spanish Television is purging, purging and purging, simply. [[Murmurs.]] Do you want the Spanish TV model? [[Applause]] No, no, no, no. [[Murmurs.]] We don't want the Aragon Television model either, where even the information is outsourced. [[Murmurs.]] To the news! [[Murmurs.]] Nor do we want — of course not! — the South Canal model, which after thirty-seven years of socialism is in the lowest audience quotas. For four years now, he has the Board of Directors extended, he has no director, and finally, a budget disaster on that television, and without any technological reform. A television that, by the way, don't worry, it'll go on, of course it'll go on! If he picks up his own status. What are they afraid of? What they have to have is an efficient TV. [[Murmurs.]] Now, if these reasons were not enough, there is an even more decisive one, which you know or ought to know, in order not to change the law right now, and this law is going to have to adapt to the Community directive on audiovisual services once it is transposing to Spanish legislation. So it's not the time or the circumstances to modify a law that works, a law that has the Galician TV as a leader in the audience, with the sound accounts, the best equipped technologically, that fulfills the public service mandate and that will, by the way, have to continue to develop, and we are the first to work with all of you to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u120	To approve the initiative that you bring here today would be irresponsible; for that, with us, it does not contain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u121	Thank you, Mrs Arias. Author group of the bill, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u122	Thank you, President. First of all, I would also like to thank the support of both the Socialist Party and En Marea. Look: we are concerned about CRTVG, and indeed, yes. Yes, because we have also taken many initiatives brought to this chamber; we have brought up the debate on the situation and future of the public media in this country on more than one occasion. I'm worried or worried enough if the People's Party — and you as spokesperson now, Mrs Arias — is that whenever we talk about CRTVG, you spend more time talking about Spanish Radiotelevision, about South Canal, about Aragon's public television and about Catalan public television than about the reality that is living in the public media in this country. [[Applause]] So I almost ask you the question: if you're concerned about the situation you are living and going through the public media in this country. I was saying in my first intervention that we lived this September 8th, a historic demonstration. And it was a historic demonstration because for the first time — for the first time! — in more than thirty years of the history of the Corporation there was a demonstration of that magnitude and magnitude — for the first time: never before in the history of the Corporation of Radio and Public Television this country had called a mobilization, and if they were to denounce for so many weeks, for so many days continuously the control, manipulation, political interference and the need to address a serious and in-depth debate about the future, also in terms of direction and decision-making processes, which is what the BNG brought here today. I also have to tell you that I am not surprised by the position of the People's Party in this respect. It makes me funny: it's a very good law and it's fulfilling itself. Article 23 which refers to the election process of the General Directorate of the CRTVG, is not complied with. You have used the sub-refugee of the Budget Accompanying Law for 2016 to be able to extend sine die and eternal life to the current General Directorate out of the process that marks Law 9/2011. Article 33 Signature of the program contract: no, it is not done, and in addition, the General Directorate is thrown into the CRTVG Control Committee that it has no intention of fulfilling it. Article 36.1. Professional status: that professional status that, in the case of Spanish Radiotelevision, recognizes that this graphic reporter is a professional of information and that he deserves to be answered questions like anyone else who goes with a tablet or a pen. Article 36.2. The Informative Board: seven years. I ask, and I tell you because it seems that you have access to a record of the meetings of the Board of Directors that at least the BNG doesn't have, the Socialist Party says that neither does it, nor does it have in Marea. I would like to know, because in the Public Service Record you never realized the contents of the meetings that were supposedly addressed at the Board of Directors, because it takes seven years to create an Informative Board and a professional status; 2,555 days, most of them working. What are you doing? Because, in addition, the answer to us is that the General Directorate is not responsible for this, and the answer to the workers and the workers is that the representatives of the Directorate of the Public Radio and Television Corporation have no competence at all. And I wonder, who's got it? Because the law is absolute and meridianly clear, and it says it's that board of directors who have to elaborate it. Article 49 External and professional control mechanisms of the Corporation itself: the control and follow-up of what happens in the public media cannot depend exclusively on a permanent non-legislative commission of a parliament. This figure must be created, that audiovisual authority which is also provided for in the law — the last fifth provision, which is not met — which is not created either. I explained why it had to be a parliament that created the bases and called for the public contest we proposed: because they didn't create the audiovisual authority in seven years. What we see, if we compare it with other territories — both Catalan and Valencian — is that it is their audiovisual advice that develops these procedures. But it's just that in Galicia we don't have it because the People's Party decided that we shouldn't have to develop this article of Law 9/2011 either. I'd be a little embarrassed, really, with the panorama above the table, with those continued mobilizations of the staff board, with those two twenty-four-hour strike calls, and with this list or restriction of articles — which are, in addition, the hard core of Law 9/2011 itself — unmet for seven years, say it's all going great. And to those who want to open the debate on transparency — light and typing — in the selection processes of people who are going to make decisions about something as important and fundamental to democracy as public media, to whom we have come here to open a debate to ensure the participation of the social, professional, decision-making and, above all, to whom we have seen here, like the BNG, proposing a reform of the law that allows the threads to be broken...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u124	...to join the Council of Galicia and the political party that supports it, the People's Party, with the decisions that are made within the Corporation, I would be ashamed to vote against this, too. We will continue to move forward, we will continue to bring forward the proposals, we will continue to defend the public media of this country, because they are a fundamental element in creating a truly free and truly democratic society. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. At the end of the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the legislative texts. Close the doors, please. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u126	We begin by voting on the Ditam issued by the 3rd Committee on Economics, Farms and Budgets on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. We begin by voting on amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, and there is a request by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in particular, to separate the amendments from 1 to 6, from 8 to 15 and 17 and 18 — this in the first group — and then — in another group — Amendment No 7. So we first vote on block 1 to 6, block 8 to 15 and 17 and 18. Amendment Nos 1 to 6, 8 to 15, 17 and 18 G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block not incorporated into Ditame, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u127	We now vote on Amendment No 7. Amendment 7 to the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block not incorporated into Ditame, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 51. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u128	We now vote for the rest of the amendments of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Vote of Amendment 16 to the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block not incorporated into Ditame, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u129	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. of Galician Socialists not incorporated into Ditame, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farm and Budgets, on the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 37; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u130	We are now voting on amendments to the Parlia­mentary Group on the Environment. And here we're going to see how we order this, because there's also... Mrs. Prado, there's a transaction, right? But we're going to order because there's a separate request. Let's first make the amendments to what socialists are asking: to separate the amendments of En Marea, in particular, from 1 to 23, 25, from 31 to 33, 35, 37, 39, 41 and 42, from 44 to 68, from 74 to 80, from 82 to 84, 88 and 92. This is in a first block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u131	Let's start the votes again. First of all, there is the transaction in which they reached an agreement, which is a transaction for which Amendment No 62 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea is referred. Do all groups know the transaction? [[Assentment.]] We voted for this transaction. Vote for the transactional text of G.P. Amendment 62. From Marea to Ditam, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 65; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. The text of this amendment is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u132	Let's vote the rest now, minus 62.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u133	Let's see, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u134	I would ask that we first vote on one group — 34 to 36 and 81 — another group — 24, 26 to 30, 69 to 73, 86, 87 and 89 to 91 — and, in a third group, the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u135	First group. Let's sum up, if not, it's a mess. [[Laughter]] We voted for the first group that Mr. Fernández Leicega commented. Vote on Amendments 34, 36 and 81 to the G.P. in Case C-39/90 Commission of the European Communities ν Commission of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 51; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u136	We vote for the second group. Vote of Amendments 24, 26 to 30, 69 to 73, 86, 87 and 89 to 91 G.P. in Case C-39/90 Commission of the European Communities ν Commission of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 37; abstentions, 20. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u137	And we voted for the third group. They're all included. Vote of Amendments 1 to 23, 25, 31 to 33, 35, 37 to 68, 72 to 80, 82 to 85, 88 and 92 G.P. in Case C-39/90 Commission of the European Communities ν Commission of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 37; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u138	They're all the amendments to the Marea that have been voted on. So now the vote is taken on the Commission's ruling, which incorporates the transaction. Voting of the compromise text of the Ditame, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 37; votes against, 34. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u139	We now vote to take account of the proposed legislation of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of En Marea, by regulating the system of provision of posts of chief and coordination of health institutions of the Galician Health Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u140	We now vote to take account of the proposed legislation of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, reform of the Law 9/2011, of November 9, 2011, of the public media of audiovisual communication of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u141	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with the agenda item, motions. G.P. motion. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luís Rivas Cruz, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the reform of the common agricultural policy for the period 2017-2021
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u142	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u143	Mr Rivas has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u144	"With a straw hat, / a gale to Bethlehem went, / while the boy bled / cumin his hat the ox." [[Strong general applause from this panxolina.]] Thank you very much. When the bag or plow splits the earth by calling its door, seeking its fruitfulness in this work, it is still laid by farmers all the knowledge, commitment and hope in the realization of the food that will give life to our lives as a species. This cyclical fact and its rhythms depend on sunlight as the source of first and last energy. Well, when the light damps, when it's always night, when the peasants and the peasants turned their eyes to the big bush, to the horrendous corn, to the patty, to the nail, to the scarce canyon, taking account of the reserves of the food necessary for the family clan of the winter that was announced, it was Christmas. Because Christmas is the transit in the darkness in search of clarity, it is the cosmos that turns against humans and makes life difficult, it is the Christianization of the ancient feast of light: winter solstice, hope that precedes the first millet of the year, which was made true in January. Ladies and gentlemen, the panxolina comes in for two reasons: one, because it's already Christmas, and another, because of this motion we're presenting today from the BNG. The Welsh panxola is looking for the little light in a child's light, in a supposed portal of Bethlehem, and stutter; and in the meantime, the ox slaps his hat. I want to draw attention to this fact, because Europe, the advantage or disadvantage of our membership in that market, is not today's discussion. Our debate goes from our current and future situation in that market; we cannot go through it. Because the Greek countryside is at Christmas; therefore, time to account for how we are and what we will have to do to face the winter that comes to us. They're not supposed to be, they're sure. And it's not a matter of milk defending milk, meat defending meat and wine defending wine, no. And that no one defends anyone? They want us not, we are nation, our country with fully differentiated interests, especially in the primary sector, and the CAP that joins and begins to discuss will be crucial for Galicia. Because Galicia, this country that occupies us and owns us, cannot be subtracted from its geographic position, nor from its soil orographical conditions, nor, of course, from the weight of time shared with its secular residents: us, the Greeks and the Greeks. Therefore, because of their unique conditions, our farming activity cannot be absorbed or cancelled by plans that do not originate from our most genuine reality and our future interests. The high policy of the European Union may restrict the limits of strategic plans to states, but in agricultural and forestry matters Galicia is a state or, what is the same, has full competence, and its interests are linked to the interests of another agribusiness and other mountain that is present in the rest of the state. That's why we make the first proposal in this spirit of recounting stocks that mark us on Christmas: we see that we have, which characterizes us and gives us strength, that makes up our singularity to defend, to tell it, expose it and defend it with the determination it gives us that we are people and land in search of the light of the new solar cycle. And that is why we do not deny the reality that prevents us from growing up and that does not allow us to stand on equal footing with other European rural realities. It is fearful to deny unmeasured and progressive afforestation. It is fearsome to deny the unbridled eucalyptization, the massive and progressive depopulation of more than half of the territory, the closure of four hundred and ninety-nine dairy farms in the course of the year, the dangerous decrease of the UAE, the loss of basic services in the rural world, the absence of primary production processing industries. It's fearlessness that would deny reality. Ladies and gentlemen, it is suicide to say that this is the happy Arcadia, because in this state of things, if it is not quite catastrophic, if it is very worrying, the question arises: what to do? The counsellor in the past said that the threat of a forty-six percent decrease in direct aid was round. Suddenly we've already secured a decrease, and the struggle lies in not falling from seventy percent, he said. The plan we propose from the BNG should be open and in permanent consultation with the sectors concerned, because it's going to have waves, it's going to have pressure. Our stubborn insistence is that of "cold heat of cold augh," and Galicia has already reached enough with the nefarious negotiation of entry and subsequent negotiations of every period of the CAP. The state will not accept the specificities of the German field, and we will see the role of the European Members born here when the future of our country, of the Greek, is at stake. It's not too late to start planning what's never been planned on the right. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are not stubborn to the heaviness. But we're not fools, and we don't get to politics now. They're dismantling the countryside and I'm not gonna let them call us catastrophists. You should know: in how many municipalities in Greece are initiating modifications of the PXOM, in order to facilitate the change of land use to eucalyptus? They can't deny me the fact, because it's a reality. It could be the new electoral weapon. Reasoning is powerful: more than half of the gainful farms have no continuity, they're rekindled by much bigger people. "I will not spoil my farms to any one, I have the right to plant them." And before that, who dares to tell them about the UAE, who dares to talk about the needs of the country, strategically surface, who dares to give them common good reasons if we all know in rural, that rural people only care about four who trade with the nurse at the orders of several lobbys, and who expect people to tire and sell at low prices? The rest doesn't exist, it remains to die of disgust. The rural esters suffer in silence. The horizons are lost, many people are given up, and the administration is no longer present, the agricultural offices are empty of content, counseling is done privately and with the technical council goes the product you have to buy. Public research wouldn't have time to talk about it. That's why I sang the panxolina. If Christmas is all a rite of fertility and hope for the return of abundance, we will have to start a Christmas in which in six years of the future CAP we fruitful the country, that the amounts achieved both in the first and second pillars will be invested in a strengthening of the primary sectors of agriculture, livestock and livestock. To develop a catalogue of urgent measures to stimulate and develop the Italian countryside, to implement in the next seven years, so that by the end of 2027 competitive conditions can be found for access to possible liberalisation of European agricultural markets. With carefulness, putting earth into rent in the hands of those who want to work, thereby reducing the costs of production, ordering the territory and diversifying productions, making them sustainable, encouraging transformation in the vicinity, boosting the trade of proximity, recovering lost public services. They know all this that we all know what needs and what can be done, just lack of will. Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u145	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. It's clear who's got it, he's got it, eh! There's no doubt about it. [[Laughter]] Who's got it, hold it, eh! No, well, we won a good deputy, but we lost a good singer. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Singer? [[Laughter]] All right, singer. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For the Socialist Group of Galicia, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u146	Well, I sing, sing, sing like not, don't I? Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Counselor, too, good afternoon. We are debating today this motion on the common agricultural policy for the period 2021-2027. And it is that the reform of the common agricultural policy for the period 2021-2027 has and will continue to have in this chamber in the coming months a worthy protagonist. You have and will have a role in this chamber, but you also have and will have a role in society, and more intensely in the rural world. A rural world in need of active policies and resources to develop its many potentials. And the common agricultural policy can, in any case, be that tool and instrument that potentiates the rural environment in multiple facets. Its relevant role we have already seen in the previous plenary session, and we are giving it today. In the previous plenary session with an interpellation and a non-law proposition, and today with this motion, which constitutes the interpellation in the previous plenary session of the Nationalist Block of Wales. The motion of the Galego Nationalist Block proposes in its point 1: "To draw up a comprehensive Strategic Plan of Galicia that contemplates all the differential aspects of the Greek to protect so that the future CAP does not harm the interests of the Greek countryside." I recognize that the designation of "Strategic Plan of Galicia" without further doubt offers us doubts that we intend to clarify through the amendment we tabled to this motion. Later I'll clarify this amendment and its reason for being. First, I mean, now, I'm going to report on matters that are grounded and based on the amendment we tabled. Article 93 of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 28/2016, the architecture of the strategic plans of the CAP, provides that each Member State shall establish a single strategic plan of the CAP for all its territory. It also states in Article 94(3) that each Member State shall establish an association with the competent local and regional authorities and relevant bodies representing civil society, and where appropriate the bodies responsible for promoting social inclusion, fundamental rights, gender equality and non-discrimination. Member States shall ensure that such interlocutors participate in the elaboration of the strategic plans of the CAP. And the Ministry of Agriculture has already published a document on the common agricultural policy post-2020, a response from Spain, which among other things says: Spain is committed to a common strategic plan, in which the role of autonomous communities is preserved in the second pillar. In point 2 it defends the existence of a national strategic plan, in which the autonomous communities must play a key role, both as regards the interventions of the first pier and especially in the interventions of the second pier. In point 3, the Strategic Plan should be an opportunity to improve synergies between the measures of the first and second pillar, to achieve the common objectives of the CAP. In point 4, interventions at the first pier must have a national character, while those at the second pier must have a regional vocation and be designed by their own autonomous communities, because they are the best aware of the reality and needs of their territories. Finally, in point 5, the governance model of the Strategic Plan should incorporate the authorities of the autonomous communities responsible for management, while ensuring the necessary coordination at the national level. Ladies and gentlemen, the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and the document of the Ministry of Agriculture for the common agricultural policy post-2020 are concrete and precise regarding the content, processing and role of the different administrations, as I have just said. In any case, they state very clearly that each Member State will provide the appropriate scenario of institutional and sectoral participation, in order to encourage consideration of specific and unique elements, and thus ensure active participation in the development and management of the National Strategic Plan. Each Member State shall also establish a single strategic plan of the CAP for all its territory. We believe that Galicia should provide itself with a strategy in front of the CAP 2021-2027; a strategy that contemplates all aspects of the Greek differential and can include them in the only possible strategic plan: the National Strategic Plan. Our amendment only seeks to avoid unnecessary confusion, calling the "Strategic Plan of Galicia" in point 1 of the initiative as "Strategic Document of Galicia". With this change we clarified and simplified the scenario: National Strategic Plan/Strategic Document of Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u147	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u148	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Tell me that Mr. Blanco Paradello has also made his pinions as a singer; Mr. Fernández and I have made him complicated here in this parliament. [[Laughter]] Well, when, months ago, the European Commissioner for Agriculture presented the legislative texts with which Brussels is designing the new common agricultural policy, which will enter into force as of 2020, he warned us that what is being drawn there will leave a much more centralist CAP and will therefore not recognize the peculiarities of each territory. The low budget, marked by Brexit, is one of the main concerns that we have today, the West Bank and the West Bank, but it's not the only concern. From En Marea we regret that one of the only contributions to prioritize these aids had been left in a change of name, and what was once an "active farmer" now becomes a "genuine farmer", besides criticizing that the Commission's proposal adds greater complexity to the condition of direct payments. This does not just say in Marea, this tells different organizations, as Fruga can be, as it can be the Galician Labour Union, as it can be the Campesina Way itself, which ensure that the texts presented lay the basis for dynamising the only common policy of the whole European Union. Although the Galician Union denies it, the European Commission is aware that there are strong imbalances in the application of the CAP and is aware that agricultural income remains far from the average income of other sectors. The European Commission is aware that the aid for the CAP represents between 20 and 50 percent of the income obtained by agricultural families, and that, in addition to many cases, if direct aid were to be discounted, income would even be negative. Some pros of this new proposal: there's a roof for direct help; there's a redistributive payment to income, an advisory system. But there's a lot of subjects that are going to be obvious today: Agricultural farming is not provided geared towards food production in all rural territories, and gives priority to peasant youth; but not only during the first few years of activity, but also in the distribution of aid and the reservation of their payment rights. Nothing is spoken of as granting compulsory direct payment to small-scale farmers and farmers, based on a minimum aid value. We are not talking about maintaining the current level of aid coupled and not accepting that crops intended for agro-fuels benefit from this aid. We're not talking about those agro-ecological farms that need to be recognized within the ecosystems. The latter must be an aid and support for model systems for climate and the environment, and not an aid for specific practices within an intensive agricultural system. From En Marea we strongly reject that there is mandatory funding for agricultural insurance to deal with market crises. Risk management must be addressed with clearly public policies, such as market regularisation. In no case can we allow the promotion of those macro-exploitations and integration systems that move professionals and professionals by implementing a model of agriculture without farmers or farmers. We ask to support a sustainable agricultural model, which is fair and healthy for the Greek peasantry, which is fair and healthy for the Greek citizenship and which is fair and healthy for the Greek environment. And this CAP does not represent Galicia properly. Spain's unity won't be broken tomorrow because the People's Party votes in favour of this motion. From En Marea we would like the new CAP to be flexible so that it adapts to the needs of each territory and therefore supports Galicia's own uniqueities. Like who? So as the Basque Country does, for example, where we see its data from 2016 and we see how the agricultural fabric represents 10 percent of its gross domestic product and gives employment to more than 100,000 people. In Galicia, in 2017 agriculture accounted for only 4.7 percent of GDP, and as for employment, it is registering an annual decline of two percent. How do the couples and the Basques do? For they have a strategic plan that specifically looks after family farms, for which most of the financing of the common agricultural policy is required. Since it's the people who live and exploit their lands who really work for the agricultural sector, who care for the landscape, who take care of the products and those who take care of the land. We are in favour of drawing up a comprehensive strategic plan for Galicia, which contemplates all the differential aspects of Greece to protect, so that the future CAP does not harm the interests of our rural environment. And we are in favour of drawing up a catalogue of urgent measures for the stimulation and development of the Greek countryside to implement over the next seven years, so that, as Mr Rivas said, at the end of this 2027 these find competitive conditions for access to possible release of European agricultural markets. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u149	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Before we begin, I thank Mr. Rivas very much for giving us these dates with that beautiful song "With a straw hat." I have to say it's the first song I had to ride as a teacher when the panxolins arrived, and I didn't think I'd meet the author, or much less listen to her in Parliament. So for me, from a professional point of view, it was a moment that I'll remember for many years, and when I go back to school, I'll tell my students. At the BNG, it's true, they sing well. In the past we had Mr. Pombo, the Member of Lugo, who also sang well. They sing well but look, Mr. Rivas: BNG is not a trusted party, not only for the partners who choose to go to the elections, but because they always have that habit of saying what to do when they're in the opposition and do the opposite when they have the opportunity to rule. [[Laughter]] I could remember, for example, the attacks on mining projects, but when you ruled, you granted a hundred research permits and forty-three operating licenses; or fierce criticisms to the large surfaces, but when they ruled in four years, they granted twice as much permission as the PP in eight years. And today we are faced with one more example, because if you were ruling, what would happen to this issue of the CAP? I am convinced that you would have accompanied the Spanish Minister of Agriculture to Brussels — as did the Councillor of Galicia, who we thank you for this important debate today — to defend the interests of farmers and farmers. Mr. Rodríguez, from En Marea, all you have said now is what you have to do in this next stage of debate. And besides, you, gentlemen of the BNG, know that representation in the European institutions corresponds to the member states, that is, Spain. And you're supposed to also accept, in compliance with Community legislation, that Spain has a single national strategic plan including the characteristics of autonomous communities. And they would fight, as the Government of Greece is doing, so that the Welsh proposals will be taken into account, taking into account our specificities and our own challenges and challenges. Because — I repeat — by complying with the European Regulation cannot be otherwise, Mr Rivas, even if you have called it the German or Welsh plan, or would seek another more nationalistic name to please your faithful — by the way, less and less. Mr. Rivas, if we want institutions to respect us and take us seriously, we have to be respectful and serious. And that's why you can't say that the German Government refuses to defend Galician interests, that it abandons farmers and farmers, that rural people only care about four who want to trade with the forest — I believe you said —. Really, Mr. Rivas, it doesn't have to be -- I told you the other day -- that it's overacting. He even said he could be regarded as treason to Galicia. Of course, I want to remind you that the German Government has been working hard for two years. And the Ser chain published: "Galicia plant towards Brussels in agricultural matters," and the former advisor met with trade union organizations, producers and other collectives. By the way, where they were at all the meetings of both Agricultural Unions and the Labour Union, which today you set an example, but I hope they will always do so. Because we do it all the time, and many times or usually they give us a lot of pipe. And so there was an agreement on August 22 that you want to make obvious. An agreement which has been handed over to the ministry and which upholds precisely a two-tiered CAP: direct support for rural development and the need to establish measures that recognize the peculiarities of each territory. If you want credibility, your Member, where this is being discussed, I think you should be a little more informed. "Ana Miranda denounces that the agribusiness sector has to go to Brussels to have information about the CAP." Is this true, Mr. Rivas? I'd like you to tell me if that's true. And he also says, "We denounce that we have no information on a reform by the authorities of Greece and Spain that can profoundly affect the agricultural structure of our country," said Miranda who asked the president of the Union to be involved in this matter." And I'm also going to tell him that the Labour Union is sending an email to the council: "Good morning. First of all, we want to thank you for the process of consultation and participation you have put in place on this issue." Do you guys talk to people? Agrarian Unions? No, no, no, no. With the Labrego Union? Not at all. So I think you should stop saying some questions that aren't going to matter. He also said this MEP in Brussels — these are very important statements — "Mr. Feijóo doesn't even know what a read, not a cow, not a vineyard. He wants to destroy the land and he doesn't care about all the threats he's experiencing." Do you agree with these statements, Mr. Rivas? [[Murmurs.]] Because, of course, if we are going to Brussels to tell jokes about something that is so serious, of course, it seems to me to be a lack of rigour and seriousness to speak like that of the President of Galicia, who was voted by most of the people of Greece, reaching three absolutes. By the way, you also told your honourable Member that you were going to make amendments. Well, I haven't seen them, but I know someone has seen them and they're very barbaric amendments that we'll be able to analyze when the time comes. So, I'm done. And I want to tell you, Mr. Rivas, as the Rural Counsellor said: now it's about working together in the sector and within a national strategy to fight, first, because the CAP budgets are not reduced and also about fighting to take account of Galicia's peculiarities, — I insist — leader in the dairy or meat sector throughout Spain. We played a lot. The CAP that you put forward has enabled Galicia to receive, for example, in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 five hundred and ten million euros, in this case about thirty-two thousand applications each year. The Minister Planas announced that next January 21st will bring together autonomous communities to move forward in the common strategy, in which, of course,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u151	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u152	...will be Galicia defending the interests of our rulers. —Finally, President. — Yesterday the Councillor in Brussels announced the establishment of an independent working group which will draw up the Welsh proposal which will be referred to the ministry to be included in the national plan. So, Mr. Rivas, the opposition gentlemen, they add up to work and they don't intend to go for free, we're stronger together. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u153	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello. Motion author group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u154	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Blanco Paradelo, why don't you answer the case? Of course you brought out papers here. By the way, you pulled out a communication that I don't know if you can get it out, which is the communication from a union to the council. Does a member of the People's Party have access to those...? Finally, you'll have to explain something about it. Have they taken the crafts of fishing in Europe seriously since the Central Government? In fact, when we were in the Government we took out of the sleeve the contracts approved to regulate milk prices, they weren't in the law or they could do it, and they got pulled out! [[Murmurs.]] And they took out negotiating tables and harmonised. [[Applause]] You never had the courage to do so. [[Applause]] That's the difference. And you can't say what we would do today in front of Brussels to defend... you can't say because you don't give the case, you have to answer what you're doing and what you're going to do, and our motion is going on. By the way, I'm not the author of the panxolina. The 99.99 percent panxolinis are traditional. We own the best Christmas music in the world, and it's born at the time of the songs, that's to say, it has canvas. We're done! [[Mr. Blanco Paradelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] We need a complete document. It has to be both a document, a plan, a relationship of measures... the case is to do so and to be exhaustive, Counsellor; to take an X-ray, an intensive TAC to our situation, and from there it acts. Because we can make less ferent and catastrophic the reality of the Greek field by reasoning with figures, as much as percent and statistics. But who gives me a percentage of the abandonment of the caducifoli in the Nature and Non-Natural Network on Lugo Mountain, in the early snowfall that came from four hundred meters? You have to go over there and see the oaks, the rattles, you have to see them truncated. What's going to happen with that? That's quantifying our specifics, and we have to go there because the CAP has to go there. Is there any ongoing and long-term planning that tries to reverse the free fall in the abyss of depopulation and decrease of the useful agricultural area, progressive forestry and closure of farms? Of course! Because the wasted time is there, it's in the empty juices of our tracks. Ireland has taken advantage of this, has taken advantage of this money that Mr. Blanco Paradelo has been appointed since the 1980s and peaks, has enjoyed it and has been on an equal footing in European markets. Not us. You know why? The difference is in faith, not in religious, but in positive self-assessment, in belief in the potentialities of the earth and people, and rather in albiscating a future according to both: land and people. You have always distinguished yourselves by an atheist, a fierce atheist; they have gone and are — and believe me, I feel I tell you — unsubmitted atheists. It's not going to say in Spain that we have defended our own from an insolidary beginning in front of those who have never shown solidarity with us and who dominate the master lines of the Spanish State's CAP. It became clear in the President's replies in the past. For these works, Mr. Blanco Paradelo, of negotiation and defence of interests, we must first do the profession of faith: faith in the Constitution, faith in transition, faith in autonomy, but, above all, faith not to make noise. We're not going to bother with our positions. So let's go in and apologize...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u156	...with the hat in your hand. They understand us, we can't get dressed, we have to keep our hat and buy someone else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u157	Thank you. Do you accept the PSOE amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u158	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u159	Is it modification? [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Okay, but do you accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u160	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u161	Okay. Thank you. Next motion. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to public health of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u162	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u163	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u164	Thank you, President. Good evening, almost evening. We're not going to argue again, are we, Mr. President? The health model of the Galician Union is Cameroon. Good example, Cameroon. Good football selection, Cameroon. The interpellation that gives rise to this motion today was, of course, presented at the previous plenary session. We are debating here — some are trying to debate and some are certain that they have tried something else, yet we don't know what — about the health model because of the data they have, of what we have, some of the many others have. So far, they're teaching emails from a union or a council, they're teaching them a parliamentary group, but there's some data that's public and that creates model differences. From our group we thought that those data from the CIS allow to compare autonomous communities, but the way to refuse that these data were not good was to defend that the Spanish health system had some good references and was very well located in some international rankings. Two were assembled here vehemently, efficiently and proudly, which was the Bloomberg report and the report of the Ibero-American Development Bank. For allowing us a little bit of analysis of the reports, because I see some disturbing look at why, the Bloomberg report so demanding in the counseling as a value of our system. We're the third health system after the PP governments. Furthermore, curiously, the evaluation in the last blocks, in this case of eight years, coincided with the years of PP government in Spain. The Bloomberg report places Hong Kong, second Singapore and third Spain as the first most efficient health care in the world. From our group, to see if it's clear, we don't look like models to follow Hong Kong and Singapore for our public health. [[Applause]] The other ranking that is cited as evidence that we are very well and that the Socialists are some alarmists who are here saying that the system is very bad... look at what the report from the Ibero-American Development Bank tells us that we are the fifth most efficient health care in the world, the fifth! We're close to taking the fourth, which according to that report is Vietnam, and we have as our world reference the first of that report, Cameroon. Vietnam, Cameroon, Hong Kong and Singapore. At least we already know which health models are relevant. The question is, why that ranking looks good to the counsellor, and then to what model he aspires to; because if it seems good to you, he'll certainly aspire to lead them. The Bloomberg report, a private financial, obviously dedicated to improving its financial products for its customers, usually works on it that strategically is something as complex as that: "What I have money, to see if you can have more. And whatever he has no money, don't call the door that we don't work with him." That's basically the company that makes that report that PP looks very good. Hong Kong and Singapore, two-thirds of the health centres in those countries are private. 90% of health care in these countries is done through private insurance, and the other 10% is what covers the public system. The country with the greatest improvement in recent years, in which it turns out that Spain is very good, it turns out that the country with the best of one report to another is Thailand. Great model, Thailand. Thanks to what? The one that reduced public health spending by 40%. Among the first 25 countries of that report, the councillor — or the councillor — considers as a reference to our health are: United Arab Emirates, Lebanon... for health references, without any doubt. Look, Chile, probably, just like until... Chile is a country we can estimate. Chile is a curious case in this assessment, it has increased some more than 20 basic points of GDP its investment in health. Do you know what you did according to Bloomberg's report, what the PP said? He's down 23 posts. Because, basically, this is a question that measures efficiency. Between what? Between the expenditure — it does not mention whether public — and the performance of that expenditure. It's an absolutely utilitarian mention of the system. It's more, for better performance, life expectancy is evaluated. I know that the PP likes to evaluate it as a criterion, but it is that life expectancy — as it says at least a serious analysis — has an influence on health care, but between 15% and 20%. Do you know where the remaining 80% is? In quality of life and poverty, which determines life expectancy. You don't have any more life expectancy just because you have better health systems, especially because you don't have to live in poverty. That's why better life expectancy than we, or balanced to our own, has Switzerland, which is neither a public health model that we should value. So when you evaluate, you have to know what criteria you take, and if you don't know, shut up. And if you know -- that would be worse -- at least assume that you're defending models where the public system disappears. Because this is about the efficiency of this model, what you're going to say is, by using the second criterion, that of the Ibero-American Development Bank, that puts us in line with Cameroon, and they publish that report. Do you know that the report says that the council is attached, that it's very good reference and puts us in a good place? One opens the front and... - I really promise you it's not changed, this Member hasn't done it - Cameroon. First country in the world according to this ranking that the council likes very much. They make a report entitled "Do more with less". "Cameroon: do more with less." [[Applause]] That's the reference of the health model for the councillor and for the Galician Union: Cameroon. By the way, a country where there's not much pregnant woman died at the doors of a hospital, bleeding, with two dead twins, because she didn't have health insurance, because her public health didn't cover it. I had to have private insurance. That's the model the counseling aspires to. And the truth is, you now understand a lot of things, because efficiency what it says... we'll explain it with an example. When you have to transport 100 kilometers, what is the most efficient model to move 100 kilometers? Well probably from this popular party model: what can go in a Ferrari, which goes in a Ferrari. But of course, there's no Ferraris for everyone. So, what's the most efficient model? Let them walk. By the way, and barefoot, you don't have to pay for any shoes. That's the most efficient thing: walking and without shoes. And what you can, if you pay a Ferrari. There are other models in which investment is necessary in order to be able to have public transport, in order to ensure that everyone has at least a decent level of attention, which is what public services are worth and especially health care. And it can't be measured solely in terms of efficiency. The system may have a debate between being unable to provide unlimited services. But it can't be that by balance we have to give unlimited efficiency, because unlimited efficiency basically presupposes the law of the jungle: what you have, what you pay; and what you don't have, which is arranged, which is usually the system that you like those who have. To the Bloomberg report, by the way. So when you take that example, you know that when you defend... by the way, a report that you asked the Health Research Committee for. They rejected everyone we asked for from the opposition, but that one asked for, and I almost remember that this is the first document they ask for in their work plan as a health document. That report says we want to be Hong Kong, and it's good that we in our group don't want to be Hong Kong. We don't want to be Hong Kong, neither Singapore, nor Lebanon, nor the United Arab Emirates. We don't want to. If you defend that model... it's okay, by the way, that they start removing the face. We want a model of equity, and that's what we meant to our initiative, through that interpellation and today this motion, to defend what the model is, and we probably just took off the boardboard. That's why we now, because we don't want to be Cameroon, we bring the political positions that we defend, that initially, even if they are very basic, we bring them through this initiative and that they're basically talking about proposing -- you see that such revolutionary things! -- a catalogue of minimum services for hospitals in Galicia and that people can have the assurance that the most basic services have their hospital, not like now, that they're taking them away from comarcas hospitals. Let's have a recruitment plan. Because the problem with this system is that there are not enough staff, as you say — by the way — right now everyone but counseling. Everyone but counseling! Primary heads who join the strikes, primary heads who support the resignations, strikes at the CAP, strikes at the CHUS of Santiago, strikes coming from the ambulances and who will return, strikes from the doctors. Everyone's defending that we have a staff problem, and that's why we need to deal with it. We need to train more staff, so it's important that you've agreed to request MIR squares only 13 days after Pedro Sanchez started ruling, it's important. [[Applause]] By the way, when they now say the blame is for the ministry, they forget that in 13 days they were already asking for more MIR squares. And you know what happened to the family doctors? They gave them all the ones they asked for. See if they've agreed now in August that there should be more doctors, and you'll have to have them studied, trained, hired and very careful already in December. And whose fault is it? From Touriño, from Zapatero and Pedro Sánchez, because in nine years he didn't rule anyone who had no responsibility. Of course! And by the way, about personnel, we're facing a serious problem, and the resignations of Vigo's service chiefs demonstrate it. It's just the beginning, because it starts a wave of serious retirements and you're never planning on it. It's more, with self-comprehensibility, they always say they're doing things very well. We put this motion as a basic point, but also with the intention of demonstrating what health models are. Ours, which is the great Spanish model that has defended itself for many years and which can remain a great model if we change policies, and some other models, but ours is valid. And within Spain we are worth the Basque model or the Asturian model, and yours is Cameroon. We don't agree with that, to see if these policies might change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u165	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u166	Good afternoon. The model of the Galego Nationalist Block is a public, Welsh, universal and free health, and obviously we're not going to Galicia that way. We brought him here to play with the People's Party and the Counsellor, whom we asked for the low assessment of the Welsh public health. And I say, it seemed kind of funny to the councilman and to the Members and to the Members of the People's Party, and when we asked them what actions they would do about that low assessment that was being perceived in all the investigations and surveys that were being done, they took the joke. And of course, it looks like those dusts, these muds. It seems to me that you will no longer be able to take so much the joke, because it seems obvious that this low valuation is increasing, and the frustration of the professionals, and it is obvious that it is the tip of the iceberg. And from this low assessment, from this frustration and from not bearing that roadmap of the People's Party of Public Health Deterioration, comes the resignation of no more than 22, but of 25 heads of service in the area of Vigo, and the population of more and more places on the street is rising: in Cambados, in Moaña, in Aldan, in Cuntis, in Moraña, in Mondariz, in Covelo. I could almost spend the five minutes I have to talk about. But they're real situations! You may continue to be castrated, you may remain in your bubble, you may continue to believe that nothing happens out there in the real Galicia. You can continue with your propaganda mountain, trying to convince the Greeks and the Greeks that nothing happens to public health in Galicia. You can make them think there's no waiting lists. You might try to make them believe that when they pick up the phone or get close to the health centers there is no delay of 7.10 and 15 days for your family doctor. You can make them believe that they're not trying to disappear the pediatricians from primary care, but reality is tenuous and the neighbors and neighbors are dealing with that reality every day, so they're going out to the streets saying they don't accept their roadmap, and that's the reality, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Like you might try to say that there are more professionals and more doctors than there are, I don't know how long, but reality is stubborn and in budgets there are no more pediatricians or professionals. Just like reports from the Board of Auditors. In the last we have it turns out that the average daily average of professionals, the average daily of professionals in health centers, says there is less in 2016 than in 2015. That's the reality!, then you strut, manipulate, twist everything you want the data to end up giving them what you want to give, but the reality -- I insist -- is stubborn and you don't give them what you want to give. That's why we have untrained health care for professionals. These nine years of the People's Party's government have gone backwards in terms of working conditions, precariousness and professional cutting, you put yourself on your own ass. We are going to support this initiative that the Socialist Party brings here today, to which we have tabled two amendments; one, because it seems to us that what it says at the fourth point, to demand the increase in the training of pediatricians, we believe that it should also be for the family doctors, because there seems to be a very important deficit right now in these two specialties. There's also in other specialties, especially in hospital care, but we're going to talk about this at another time; right now urgency is in primary care in these two specialties. So it seems to us that besides pediatricians is the subject of family doctors. And then there's a question, we're a little reluctant to insist on this volume of squares to offer in the oppositions over the next two years, because we're seeing that in the last transfer contest 5,000 squares were offered, which means there's at least 5,000 vacancies in the system. So, if there are 5,000 vacancies in the system, you have to offer those 5,000 vacant squares to eliminate that huge precariousness that exists. It is an enormous precaution in the report made by the professionals from day to day and in what they did here, in this Parliament yesterday, about the precarious situation in which they are every day and which we have to eliminate. That's why we're proposing they're eliminating that precariousness, negotiating...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u167	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u168	...the stability of the sectoral table to establish the personnel frameworks with the necessary ratios for those vacancies that really exist. We have just adopted a short time ago in this parliament — and I finish, President — a unanimous initiative calling on the Spanish Government to eliminate the rate of rest. I, of course, hope that the Greek Government will do its job and insist. Not only is it approved in this Parliament, but it does its work by insisting on the Government of the State to eliminate that rate of reinstatement, and by the Government of the State to be eliminated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u169	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u170	...so that, really, you can call all these vacant squares, because the Greek health system needs it to be called...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u172	...all that precarious work bag that has to become stable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u173	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Miranda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u174	Thank you, Mr. President. I, in the morning, would have thanked a show of pain, a minute's silence, for the murdered woman, victim of macho violence, Laura Luelmo. It won't be because my partner didn't propose it. In any case, I will aspire to my children and your daughters living in the future in a less unequal society with other ways of interacting and interacting. [[Applause]] For once I agree with Mr. Feijóo. We had a good public health system, efficient, universal, accessible, but they're making it disappear with a privatization that's getting less and less covered and a mismanagement that leaves their most valuable assets: their professionals and primary health care. In the last health barometer, people valued the trust and security they gave their health professionals, but penalized the delay in appointments and how little time they could spend on them. In other words, people highly value data and factors dependent on professionals and very negatively on health system-dependent evals. More than a quarter of the country thinks waiting lists have worsened or are still the same; and up to 108,000 people in Galicia can't afford their pharmaceuticals. Mr. Torado, you propose to make a survey. Go ahead, but reality is in sight. The barometer is clear, and anyone who's been working on the health system for 20 years, or anyone who's in touch with it, can push that discontent. Eivas in accessibility to complementary tests and waiting lists even in primary care. And this, with a totally disheartening epidemiological landscape of chronicity and aging. We need to invest in the accessible, equitable, fair and in the resolution. We need to be sensitive to social distress. We need to foster the rebalancing, that is, we need to make left-wing policies for people, not for multinationals. Di Feijóo who never spent so much or had so many professionals. Maybe, but they did it wrong. They spent where they shouldn't -- in technology and private resources, and they forgot to take care of the most valuable -- professionals and primary care. They mismanaged. Why don't you have professionals, Mr. Centeno, who looks at me like that? Is it because, after decades of leaving the professionals, they're bursting into the face of their precarious dynamics? Are professionals starting to be sick? Did you hear the compañeras of the CAP Pilar Rodríguez and Eduardo Díaz yesterday? His account was absolutely demolition. You don't know how to handle demand, because that requires commitment and courage. They called a health-saving expert who thought he was going to reinforce his speech. I saw the appearance, in the first five minutes he said he had lowered public spending, increased private family spending, and hired more people spending less. This is encouraging precarious work. Is that how they want to be professional? And I add, look how they hurt him! They're bad at it, they're trying worse and above all they're not able to handle the demand! Anyone would say they do it on purpose. Because you don't want to dismantle the public sector, do you? You don't have any interest in the private sector, do you? Mr. Torrado, we are partly in favour of the proposal to increase staff, but above all we must manage it well. That staff well valued in the surveys that compensates with their backs those less valued aspects. We know what we're talking about. That staff is on the way to war; the CAPs, the chiefs of primary care of Vigo, the emergencies of the clinic, the assistants, nursing assistant care technicians, the ambulances, 061. Do you know why Sergas is now well valued? For his professionals. And you know what's going on? That they've reached the limit, that they're saying enough! Do you know what sick people say in Matama, in Sardoma or in Porriño? How they can help. That how they can help, the patients say. They want us to give them ideas? Well, putting them out, with "b." You want me to tear them apart the argument why they don't have people to hire, what do they have? Here I am! They don't have people because Sergas is worse than an ETT, but with institutional obscenity: they refuse permission, they deal for days. In my own personal record of contracts, in my FIDS, there are 109 records. In the Sergas there are no people, but when they call an OPE with 160 squares 800 people appear. Go to Basquedi and look at how people are loyal there, with one year's contracts when they're done with the residence, and look for the professionals we lost there. Ask Diana Antón why she went to Sweden and how they treat her there. PP gentlemen, short-term management only extinguishs fires. You want me to give you another example? In the Clinic Emergency Service they reorganized the demand and overburdened nurses and nursing assistant care technicians. Were there no nurses to hire or will it be an alibi? With regard to pediatrics, which Mr. Torrado also commented on, there is no capacity to form short-term pediatricians. Forming a pediatrician is twelve years old, it's a basic arithmetic. We want to know how the demand for pediatric care will be met. They'll have to explain to the population, to the parents and mothers, whether they're planning to set up a pediatrician by a county heading, leaving the small poor people; whether they're planning to use family doctors, who don't have them either, or whether they're going to continue to promise mayors a proper coverage that they can't give or will not be able to guarantee. Or they can also do magic and cover the courthouse in Cuntis, as it happened today, okay?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u175	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u176	... having a parliamentary question just tomorrow. They have no resources and they have no plans either. They haven't planned in time. They haven't done their homework in years. When she was born, they thought they could save pediatricians. What happened? That demand grows, and they are not being effective in addressing unmeasured assistanceism. They don't approach frequency, they don't encourage the autonomy of families by solving trivial health problems, they don't encourage health education...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u177	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u178	...and this is aimed at insosibility — it's over — and you know it. And they don't solve it because you don't bet on public health, they don't care that people, desperate, spend money that doesn't go to private.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u179	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u180	They manage badly, they spend where they shouldn't. They don't rule for people, they do it for the economic interests of multinationals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Miranda, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u182	We propose otherwise, investing money in people, so we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u183	Thank you. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. Of course, Mr. Torrado, I have little to say. You spent eight minutes on Bloomberg's report, we're not doing it. And if it's about Welsh health, it's eight in ten... well, I thought I'd come here to talk about Welsh health and not about that report, but it'll be like that. Today it was Mrs. Prado who spoke about the health barometer, but forgot to tell her that the health barometer's note this past year is the highest in Galicia's history. Of course, far higher than the two-party Government of the Bloc and the Socialist Party. But anyway, that's never said, that's data, that's not interested. [[Applause]] Mr. Torrado insisted on the full past, and just spoke to Mrs. Miranda, about Professor Beatriz López Varcárcel. Sure. He talked about the first five minutes and he didn't talk about the rest. But that lady, who was accused by the opposition groups of palm tree and poppy of the People's Party, turns out that she was appointed a member of the Health Council in Madrid by Minister Bernat Soria, was decorated by Mr. Zapatero and — at least she was around — as number two of Mr. López Aguilar's candidacy to the canary elections. It is clear that the three people I have just quoted are pros and militants of the People's Party for the rest of my life. This very week an interview comes to this lady in a German newspaper where she clearly explains what she said and what she didn't say. I won't waste any more time on this subject because I'm here to talk about Mr. Torrado's motion. He's talking about pediatrics. We're always talking about pediatrics here, but there's never a real solution, a viable solution. The area pediatrics might be a solution right now for some emergency staff we have, but we also have to remember that the children and the children of Greece are privileged because 88% of them are cared for by pediatricians, something that doesn't happen in other autonomous communities. And I've got plenty of hemerothecs here about what professionals say, these professionals who rejected the area pediatrics, and the counsellor paid attention to them. He answered the parliamentary group, tabled an amendment on this subject. But those same professionals, the Galaga Association of Primary Care Paediatrics, the Galician Pediatrics Society and even the head of service at Ourense hospital, say they want to group pediatricians in the county headsets, which is what Mrs Miranda said. The People's Party doesn't say it, the professionals say it. The People's Party did not heed the demands of these professionals and did not set up the county pediatrician. And nowadays it's much more worrying about the problem of professional failure than the problem of funding. I agree once with Mrs. Prado: there are no pediatricians, there are no pediatricians. The Consejo de Sanidad de Castela-A Mancha asks for an interview to take to the Interterritorial the problem of the shortage of doctors in Spain along with the funding of CAR-T, these expensive new therapies. The minister, Mrs. Carcedo, in the face of the question of a Greek daily, answers: "There already exists in the Interterritorial a specific human resources conference that meets periodically. The lack of professionals is not resolved by a meeting of the Interterritorial." That's called political tune. And what happens where the Socialist Party rules? We're talking about Mrs. Pontón: three and a half years, fewer budgets, fewer beds, fewer nurses, more waiting lists; and a consultant built in three and a half years, one. They want to make the opposition groups a serious state problem, of which they probably blame all the previous governments, all of them -- probably we all have some fault in this problem -- a local problem, an autonomic problem, a Greek problem. Every year, 14500 people end up in medicine in Spain, and there are 6,500 MIR squares, that's where the problem is. Following the entry into force of Directive 86/457, since 1995, no licensee could exercise primary care medicine without the title of specialist. I don't know if the opposition wants us to take the solution in Galicia that was taken in Andalusia and in Castela-La Mancha, where they rule socialists or socialists and Podemos, which is to put to work doctors recently licensed, without any specialty. I think that's pink, at least illegality. If not, you have a turn now, Mr. Torrado, about this solution that applies to some community where they rule. The General Council of Medical Colleges has just manifested itself on this issue these days. Consider it a national problem and indicate that few global measures have been taken against this deficit of professionals; but from all Spain, not Galicia. And with regard to the motion, at the first point Mr. Torrado asks for an inquiry. We believe that there are more important problems, what happens is that, if Mr. Tezanos does it, anything can come out. In the second, he talks about the service catalogue. We've talked so many times, there's no need to review the amendment they tabled to the Health Act to see what that catalogue was. The third cannot be met while the replacement rate is in force, because we would not comply with basic regulations. Nor does he explain why 3,000 or 5,000 — as Mrs Prado said — or 6,000 squares. It is also surprising that the Socialist Party defends a recruitment plan and does not defend public job offers, I don't understand why very well. At the next point, Mr. Torrado, with the Central Government there is nothing to agree on the accreditation of new entrance markets to specialized training. What the Government of Spain has to do is get to work. The Council has already told you that you have applied for the accreditation of six squares. In addition, you who are so successful with your initiatives here in the Galician Parliament, that everyone welcomes the Council and does things thanks to you, you could speak to Mr. Sánchez and convince him to approve the measures that were on the table with the former Government and that can improve this situation: encourage the retention of specialists by modifying RD 11/46, simplifying the accreditation of teaching units, re-enacting the trunk, providing means to reduce the deadlines for approval, not giving the Basque Country competences or negotiating the competences of the Basque Country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u186	...—Finished, President—, put in place a register of health professionals, or modify the rules on medical incompatibilities, of which there has just been a recent judgement in Galicia. With regard to the last point, there is still negotiations with the unions, and as evidence we have the professional career, the stability plan or the agreement published today in the DOG on the selection of temporary staff at the hospital. We're not going to support your proposal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u187	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Motion author group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u188	Thank you, President. See if you give me time to mention all things. I want to thank the support that has been expressed and I will appreciate some of the things that have been discussed. Actually, if I talked about the Bloomberg report, because the PP constantly picks it up and because the counselor mentioned it here in the interrogation. But it was the counselor who set him up as a model! I think it's very important for me to talk here about the models that were in this case as a reference and that the Self-Government of the United States should come up with; if you like, we're talking about something else. Man, you're used to talking about what they want, but I'm talking about what the counselor proposed and you don't like it. See if you're so upset with this initiative that you've challenged me with what I said about the attendance of the Health Committee. I didn't even mention it, you must have a bad conscience about what they did. You must have a bad conscience that you're defending something you didn't think of here. That must be it, eh! About what we didn't mention the OPEs. I had to read it again, but I talked about the calls from the OPEs, it's here, about the question of personnel, it's here in the OPEs. I thought I hadn't written it, but I saw it. When we pose 3,000 new squares, no lies, not saying here they call 1,500, but they're all for retiring retirement or for making transfer contests and if they count as new, new squares — they're certainly liars in this, it seems like when you're going to ask beef and eventually they put an old cow and they say it's the same, you walk with these tricks -- that's what we've been raising from the staff, so we believe that this formulation of new squares is the right thing. In that sense, even if we agree with the idea, we do not accept the amendment of the BNG at this point; yes, the next one, which we believe to be complete. We think a survey has some interest, and you can do two things at once. Not because you're doing an investigation, you have to stop hiring staff. You can do things, several even, even. [[Applause]] But yes, it's important for several things. First, because there are specificities about dispersion, about the aging of the population, about how they affect comarcalizations, for example. Mr. Núñez Centeno also defended here what I said about the area pediatrics. I didn't mention it. It's important to move the debate on what you're talking about, because, of course, if you prepare the answers and then you come up with other things and you don't answer it, it's very hard to talk about. Above all, it's important to have some inquiry, because it will give us a Greek reference and we won't have to listen to the counselor saying that we want to be Cameroon. Of course, we don't want that model, so we think it's important to know what model we want to be. In short, they answered me and replied to the things I didn't propose, so it's normal that they won't support the initiative. But well, it's quite consistent, because everybody's in health talking about it and you're talking about something else. Maybe it's no problem with me, I'll think about it, but the problem is they're not listening to anyone. By the way, because they don't want to listen to this deputy, at least listen to the heads of service who resign, listen to the doctors on strike, listen to the strikes of the CHUS, the strike of the CAP, listen to the ambulances, the strike of the doctors, listen to the professional medical schools, they're telling them they're absolutely right about the primary doctors, listen to the medical schools they're saying they're missing professionals in the system, listen to all the medical schools in the rest of Spain, they're right about you listen to all the professionals, everyone. And by the way, also the patients who suffer from cuts, listen to us, that nothing happens to hear from time to time. You can still talk and they don't charge us for talking or listening. Listen to us a little.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u189	About the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u190	I think I've been in position, but we've accepted the second part of the BNG amendment. We don't agree with the first; yes in the bottom, but not in shape. So we don't accept the first one. And we would therefore expect us to understand that this system needs not to be Cameroon. Less Cameroon and Galicia, a little bit. See if we're able to talk, at least all of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u191	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal and Mr. José Manual Lago Peñas, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the employment of the car industry
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u192	Amendments have been tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u193	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u194	Good afternoon. Well, I'm sorry that at this time I'm talking about industrial policy and innovation policy may be a little dry, but that's what there is. With this motion we are not going to resolve all the obvious uncertainties for the car sector in the medium term. A half-term that the truth is, I think it'll get closer and closer, much more than some want to see. All these technological changes, when they start to albiscate, they usually fall by flood, so the technological change in the car won't be within 40 years. It was criticized that in 2045 there had been no diesel vehicles, but I think it's going to be a lot earlier, even if the laws allow it. Our intention with this motion is to warn the Government that there is a need to address the symptoms to develop the most appropriate treatments, the most appropriate policies, and, in the meantime, to seek solutions to the specific outbreaks such as those that motivate this interpellation and this motion: the ERTE that will leave 800 Citroën workers for a hundred days in their homes, with all the consequences resulting from the auxiliary industry. When I posted this on Facebook, a man with all the logic, after seeing Mr. Feijóo's press headlines saying all the new vans, above all the new Toyota van ads, he said, but how is it possible that 800 workers are sending home if there are more and more products? Well, there's a problem, and that's what we're going to talk about. Obviously, it's hard to think, if according to Mr. Feijóo Citroën gets his work out of his ears, then the reality is to send 800 workers a hundred days to his house. Besides, the symptoms, of this outbreak that we have already commented on, are obvious. The contribution of the car sector to Galicia's GDP has fallen by 16% in the last ten years, and we can't say that this is a general trend, which is so everywhere. Another very important automobile industry in Spain, as Navarre, has increased in the same period by 27%. That is, almost 43 points of difference between one autonomy and the other. Industrial employment in Galicia has lost over the last ten years 50,000 workers, 8,500 in the last year. On the other hand, industrial employment in Spain, in 2018, grows by 60,000 workers. Between 2007 and 2014 Galicia lost 60% of its innovative companies, also in the car industry, as stated in a report by the Galicia Economic Forum. The car industry, as I say, faces radical technological changes in the coming years, the deepest of its history. But in view of this evidence, what does the Government of Galicia do? Well, as the counselor did the other day, deny reality, say that everything goes well, that there is no reason to worry, that there are no symptoms of threats, and that there is therefore no need to do anything, that you have to let things evolve for yourself and that the market will solve everything for itself. Some people think talking about threats is making it easier for them to arrive. Well, we don't agree with that. We think that when there are threats, we have to talk about them, and we have to make decisions over time. Because it's true that the sector is not in a bad situation yet, but it could be, and the threats there are to make decisions. The People's Group is very likely to respond, according to what the councillor spoke about the other day, which, given that in the course of the year, 232 jobs were created — this is yesterday's Social Security survey — in the vehicle manufacturing sector in Galicia, which means that everything is going well. Well, let's compare these 232 jobs created in 2018 with the 800 workers Citroën is going to send to his house on January 1, 2019. As I said, it's true, the situation is not negative, but what are the symptoms? What are the trends? Of course, not so optimistic. The fact that ERTE is in the vehicle production line that -- if you don't know it already, I tell you -- is a production line for emerging countries, it's a call for attention. It's a low cost vehicle manufacturing line, and we think that there's not the future of a factory with the technological possibilities of PSA-Citroën in Vigo. We're in time to take action, that's good, we're not in a worrying situation anymore. But we can't wait for the situation to get worse and then it becomes much more complex. Mr. Counsellor also said that the German automotive sector is synonymous with vanguard in innovation. But what kind of innovation? Industrial innovation? Fundamental innovation? Or innovation for experimental development of new products and business models? Data say most of them go to industrial improvements, incremental innovation, which is what's being confused with industry 4.0. I mean, to produce more at lower costs. That's fine, but you can't express the same model anymore. However, all the more visionary economies in the future are betting disruptive innovation in the face of a disruptive situation, such as that which will occur in the automobile: developing new business models, new products with higher added value, not producing low cost vehicles, as happens on line 1 of production of Citroën, at the lowest cost, optimizing the production process. That's why we bet on the other ways of innovation. We cannot focus on defensive innovation, the one that fights the threat of less expensive territories. That way we'll end up losing, with great certainty. He also said the counselor that he didn't know why we demanded a strategic plan, because there was already a plan. If this is true, there should be a leadership framework that goes to the board to any strategic plan, and this Parliament should know it. A framework for assessing indicators that mark the evolution of both strategic and concrete objectives of R & D+i incentive policies; how do patents evolve; do innovative companies increase?; increasing its size?; as the percentages of distribution between R & D — as I say — of industrial innovation, fundamental innovation, or innovation for the development of new products and business models evolve. As I said, the latter are the ones that focus innovation on the most developed countries and the ones that develop the highest added value. Is it better to raise international R & D+i funds? We don't know. Is it better to raise international capital to invest in R+D+i? We don't know. What are the results of the subsidised activities? We don't know. We've been asking Commission 6th for more than two years, and so they've been commenting on me since the previous legislation. There's no way! I don't know if there's going to be a strategic plan, but a strategic plan without an evaluation and control system is really worth a little bit. As I say, this strategic plan, if they have it, no one knows it. And if they do, they could tell us how the tens of millions of euros were affected by the deep loss of Psa Citroën in the development of new products and new ways to produce more flexible; they could tell us how many electric vans were manufactured and how many were marketed. And they could tell us if the 11 million euros committed to the previous initiative, that of the electric distribution vans, would not be better devoted to a productive flexibilization of line 1 of assembly, which had avoided the situation like that of the current ERTE. Eleven million euros we don't know where they went. Because, of course, has anyone seen around Galicia -- I don't say outside Galicia -- some electric van that they call "Galicia" and that cost us 11 million euros? Because if, nevertheless, as the counselor said, that new models will be manufactured in Vigo, how is that compatible with the fact that eight hundred people go home on the E-1 production line? Maybe because the tens of millions delivered to Citroën didn't go where they were due. The lack of control and realization of the objectives of aid greatly hinders the evaluation of the results, so that structural costs of companies can be subsidised rather than stimulate real innovation. Obviously, it's not up to the public administration to rebound by supplanting the business initiative, but if you have the duty and right to be vigilant and even to fear. For all the comments, it is necessary to rethink the design of R & D+i incentives and to question, for example, the intensity, almost monoculture, of the betting by unmanned air vehicles, with a capacity to transform into industrial fabric and employment in the medium term rather than questionable. Here, the Galician Union not only bears fear, it is the one that rows around, without a contribution from companies that can be trusted check. It is very difficult to understand that much more is being invested in this incipient sector — but we will see when it will happen — than in the car sector. Although innovation is the fundamental axis for the future of this sector, we would also have to talk — but it doesn't give me time — about many more transversal issues, such as infrastructure, industrial soil, rail and port communications, promoting business concentration... here we have to be clear that the twenty-four companies that billed more than fifty million euros in Galicia twenty years ago have just disappeared; the remaining twenty-three more and more invoices, and some are world leaders. Which is why a business concentration policy is essential in this industry; promoting vocational higher education in Science and Technology, because we are in very low ratios, rather than countries that are developing truly progressive innovation policies. And above all, given the tremendous change that will take place in the car sector in the next 20 years — the greatest of its history — we reiterate the questions we have asked the advisor in the past full and that he has not answered. We hope that the People's Group will now be able to answer: Knowing if they plan to do something with PSA Citroën, if they're going to tell us where the tens of millions of those who have completely subsidized this company are going to be. Why didn't they invest that money in giving flexibility to line 1 assembly, which would allow, for example, the new vans to be on that line now and they didn't have to go to unemployment? [[Murmurs.]] And then the two most important issues, which is whether the Galician Board will require the Ministry of Industry to develop a new plan of competitiveness of the car that focuses on Galicia and ensures the important presence of the Greek companies — let's see what the result is — in the call of the Reindus programme, which is equipped with EUR 400 million and whose term ends on January 31, 2019. In short: a lot of uncertainties. The counselor the other day only said everything was going very well. Actually, things don't go wrong, they're fine. But uncertainties are very important and very important threats. Let's hope that when the People's Group intervenes, it can answer that it's done with all these millions who have arrived in Citroën. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u195	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u196	Good night now. Mr. Casal, the truth is that I envy your ability to be so optimistic at this hour of night, because you left this gallery waiting not only for answers, but also for a command box to follow up on the Galician Union Strategy in the automotive sector. I think she was optimistic too much, but it's good to have something by now. [[Murmurs.]] Well, on the subject that brings us to this debate, there are two big questions to the thread of the interpellation that we could see in the past full and in the proposal that it brings today from En Marea. On the one hand, we understand that the PSA situation, which is the reason for this initiative, is a symptom of a situation that goes far beyond this company and that has to do with two aspects very important for us: first, the consequences of a framework that is harmful to the working class and, secondly, the result of a lack of industrial policy and model for automotive, in which the administration in the public sector has abandoned its role as an engine for the East. First of all, I'm referring to the question of work. I believe that nobody escapes that in the processes that are living in our country's industry -- it's true that we can look far beyond automotive -- the lack of labour negotiation, backlogs in labour bargaining, which has the vigil of the two labour reforms, because it's something clearly negative, because it undermines the ability of workers today from the Greek production centres to condition their working conditions and advance in collective bargaining. That's generally the case, but even more difficult when we talk about multinationals. And the truth is that today Citroën is the queen of the Welsh automobile in figures, but it's not gold all the clock. And what's happening in the giant is it's also moving one way or another -- we've seen it in previous processes -- to the other matrices we have in our country and also to the auxiliary industry. And the truth is, also, speaking to workers and workers, we see that in recent years more and more staff categories have been fragmented, if companies of services created ex-processo have been introduced to facilitate the introduction of agreements that instead of being own are imported and are lower state, if they have hired workers with wages less than 800 euros in virtually neo-slavery conditions. And this adds up to an increase in timeliness, it sums up deregulation on its own time, it adds up the use of recruitment via temporary work companies, and it also summarizes the specific problem that is being faced with contracts and with cross-border workers and workers, of which we have also discussed long and held in Commission 6a. And we understand that there is a fundamental question here, that the lack of a Greek framework of labour relations is very dangerous and that it makes it very difficult for matters like this ERTE to have a different destiny. And secondly, I mentioned — and I think it's important to insist on this too — on the situation that we have reached in a sector that should be a pointer, and in view of what the People's Party does not have a single clear strategy of industrial policy. And this adds to the uncertainty that we find ourselves at this point in terms of the question of fuel and the question of the future in motor transport. Something that is true that is more recently in the debate but that is not something new than we have just learned, either in the German Parliament or in the productive fabric. So we've been back in years, in which we've been told a lot about Industry 4.0 but there's little translation to a road map. That's why that box of command that you appealed to me is convinced that unfortunately it doesn't exist. I used to play a joke with Mr. Losada — who I see is not very attentive — and we said that if someone had already found those energy guidelines, because it would have a lot to do with this debate. I remember when we had the debate in this parliament because it was the opposition that ended the question of pending tasks, such as that Plan of Transport of the Galician Union and how it did not incorporate anything new in this respect. But what are we going to expect from a government that for years denied the existence of relocation? And for us this has an important background, which is to the extent that the injection of public resources has contributed to the sowing of industry in our country or in the country on the side, which is a key issue. And that's why we add an amendment to transparency, because we're optimistic too, like Mr. Casal. I do not wish to see if, in two years' time, when I left this parliament, the Government of Greece has had to answer some of these thirty-four questions by written answer — thirty-four! — in which concrete information is requested from the company's economic aid, from the Collaboration Agreements of the Galician Union — that are not all public — the thirty-four companies, in particular. Or Article 9, which was the first I registered in this parliament, and which, as Mr. Casal pointed out, I have already insisted on other times and was something that had come from the previous legislation. And, therefore, once again we see that neither predictable government nor transparent government nor planner government. And you put these muds on them. We shall vote in favour of this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam Presas, I always pay close attention. [[Murmurs.]] This morning we were discussing taxation in the debate of the Budgets Act, and I understand that the People's Group felt that the contributions of their voice were not convincing enough, and it was necessary to strengthen a qualified voice on the subject of explaining to us what was left and right, and what was down and up taxes. And I said the profits of the banking groups in Spain were 18 billion euros in 2017. And today there's a supplementary news, with sources from the Tax Agency, which says that these banking groups are paying an average of 2.84 percent of their corporate tax benefits in Spain. I don't think I know if it's right or left, but, of course, it's a scandal, a real scandal! Because this is what we're talking about, and these were the problems of Spanish taxation, they weren't the tax amnesties for friends. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] This has a great deal to do with the available public resources for the automotive industry, for other industrial sectors and for something that is of fundamental importance in the industrial sectors, which is training. And Mr Casal said: indeed, we have to say that the automotive sector is not wrong in a sense — let's say — macro, but it is true that there are problems that we are not able to know if they are solving with public support. I'm not going to value the business strategy of PSA Peugeot Citroën Opel now too. But I do want to value or have the ability to assess the extent to which the Government's public political action in this case is directed towards where, from the Socialist Group and from the other groups legitimately, we believe that it should be directed. And it is true that the industry grows in terms of billing and in terms of benefit, it does not grow in terms of occupation, Mr Casal said. Over the past year, 8,500 jobs have been lost in the industrial sector — which is not a small one — and this can mean an increase in productivity. To be welcome, but undoubtedly it also means an increase in the redirection of funds or the benefits of this productivity towards business benefits. So I think this is a strategic issue on this issue. And the subject of training, because we regrettably see it weakens in all the objective needs that exist in the automotive sector as well as in other nearby metal mechanics. On the one hand, since the outbreak of the crisis, the wage sector in the industry in Galicia has lost weight of the German industrial wages in relation to the Spanish average, which is not the case with the global wages. That is, in fact, global wages are virtually at the same level as industrial wages, in addition to this increase in productivity and therefore of benefits. It lowers the occupation and lowers the wages, so what we're saying is that the benefits are increasing, rising. The training problems are unfortunately there, and they are there because in the years of crisis, which was actually when public anticyclical training policies were needed, precisely to help people who were left out of the labour market by the crisis itself had recycling capacity when we came out of the crisis, because that was not done, and we see the levels of execution, we see the budget effort of the Greek Government during the years 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, and unfortunately we follow in a similar line. We have come to the absolutely unprecedented fact — and I have bothered to review it — from the governments of Mr Fraga Iribarne that training for unemployed people in a year when unemployment was close to twenty percent left the execution at zero, i.e. it was not spent at all on a single euro. I repeat again: with a 20% unemployment rate in the unemployed training programme, nothing was literally executed. And now we're dealing with a problem, we're dealing with the problem that there's a major training deficit, which is going to be serious problems for the sector. I'm going to resort to press headlines, because I think it's not only absolutely legitimate but much more recommended than party arguments, be it the party that it is: "Metal will hire foreign templates to cover the lack of professionals in Galicia." "The German metal only covers one third of its employment vacancies, there are no apprentices." "The German metal offers three thousand jobs without any qualifications or experience, and not even so." Yesterday, a conspiring member of the revolutionary commands in the industrial sector of Vigo, as the president of the Chamber of Commerce, said textually: "We continue to have a lack of all professions." Well, there's something you'll have to say to the German Government in this situation. Something I'd have to say about the R & D situation that we're talking about here during all these three legislations, and we were talking about Ukraine and Turkey. But now we see regrettably that in other areas of training and qualification of human capital, because we are also faced with major deficits which, of course, are extremely difficult to explain. Yes, the Government of Greece, which does not meet those needs of the industrial sector in Galicia, at least in the vigue field, is able to set up a political dispute with the Vigo Free Zone and that so-called "City of Vocational Training", which, of course, we return to the question of who invites, who pays and who has the competences. The powers of the Government of Galicia, and therefore the Government of Galicia, through the Council of Education, with Igape and with Gain, have to develop all those measures to meet the demand for vocational training in this autonomous community. We understand that the People's Party uses Galician Union as an electoral tool in their favor, but unfortunately...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u199	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u200	...that doesn't help solve the problems of low-skilled unemployed workers or long-term unemployed workers or industrial sector problems to supply labour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u201	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u202	I too would like this to be Valencia so I could have a headline like this: the Valencian Government injected 19 million euros into Ford this year. I'd like to know how much the Greek Government injected Psa Citroën, that sort of Indiana Jones and the cursed temple, that we are not able to know in any way. That's right, the Igape, who doesn't tell us that, which is objective, tells us a mile...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u203	It's over, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u204	...—Finished, Mr President—tells us a mile he supported with 14,000 million euros 81,000 companies, which obviously only needs to divide in order to see that it is false. We tabled an amendment. In any case, we will support the En Marea initiative. We are going to present an initiative which is complementary in our opinion to the issue put forward by the En Marea Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u205	If you like, finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u206	Thank you very much and good night.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u207	All right. Thank you. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr. Casal, you're like talking about grants! You, ladies and gentlemen of tides, the truth is that you don't care what the counselor tells you, the answers, the clarifications, the data, the targets, the strategies, the plans... you always follow with the same bat: that everything goes wrong, and paint a sad, unnourished Galicia. [[Applause]] It's not real Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, it's Galicia's imagination of the tides of Podemos. With all due respect, ladies and gentlemen. If you are unable to choose who to handle the tides of Podemos, how will you be able to lead the economy and industry of this country? Impossible, ladies! In Galicia we have clear where we are and, above all, where we are going. We have a clear goal, which is job creation, and we also have a strategy. The automotive sector — which you say is not — is already within the Third Strategic Plan for the improvement of the 2016-2020 sector. Since the Galician Innovation Agency - Gain- supports R+D+i, aligned with RIS3, actively participating in all programs. Here's also the electrics included. Social clauses will be negotiated with trade union organisations. Aid to the mobility recharge infrastructures to the alternative will be funded by the Idega and managed by the autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, one data: Galicia, according to the report of the Spanish Association of Automobile and Truck Manufacturers, is among the three leading communities in vehicle production thanks to PSA Peugeot Citroën. We can say that the German automotive industry already accounts for 15.3% of national manufacturing. Nearly one in six cars was built in Galicia. Three consecutive years of growth in sales, employment and investment. Last year, the sector made the best figure in the last decade, almost eight thousand seven hundred million euros; it created 2,650 new jobs, reaching almost thirty thousand workers; it doubled the investment, with 245 million euros to adapt to the changes that Industry 4.0 demands; historical record of exports. Sit on, Mr. Casal. The reality and the truth are that the Welsh automobile is a reference, it's a clear and decided bet on the future. The Greek society can be quiet in general, and in the automotive sector in particular. We have a stable, strong government capable of helping a healthy economy with the 2019 budgets. By the way, you refused today. Great way to support companies! PSA will manufacture in Vigo for Toyota a fourth van, in addition to the K-9, the C-4 and Picasso monovolumes, the M3 and M4 model, and from next year on the V20 tout. Mr. Casal, by the way, all these agreements are agreements of the majority. You're talking about ERTE. By the way, PSA and the trade unions in the company committee — Independent Workers' and UXT Union — representing 75% of the staff, closed negotiations on the regulatory record. That's for you, in view of the fact, it doesn't look right for you. They are unable to put order in their organization to understand and respect the agreements of the majority; they are binding. That's called democracy. With regard to the role of the administration that they so much claim, Junta has granted EUR 150 million in recent years for the Greek automobile. Therefore, Mr. Casal, the Galician Union is collaborating and pushing an economic transformation in Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the opposition to their concern for employment and industrial production in Galicia. Let's give it to her if she cares about all the work. We don't want the industry to be first and second. We don't want Alcoa's closure, we don't want to close Ence either. We didn't want Elnossa shut down, neither do we want to shut down the power stations at the Bridges and Meirama, nor do we want to close Reganosa. And, of course, we don't want to close the PSA. [[Applause]] Whoever talks to them was a PSA worker in Vigo, I know what I'm talking about. You can't close the PSA Group, because this would be to throw into the street thousands of gales and gales and dozens of thousands of people who would affect the cessation of their activity, which is their way of living and maintaining their families. This government won't allow it, no, quite the opposite. PSA is making investments for over 600 million euros to make the factory smart. Joins supports this and allows this schedule. I'm going to finish, Mr. President. Galicia's doing fine. Galicia grows more than the average of Spain. In Galicia exports grow, with the best cycle in history. In 2020 we will reach the budgetary balance and continue to reduce debt. This parliamentary group proposes a point-by-point vote, of which we would support points 6 and 7. Point 6 emphasises the competitiveness plan for the sector, where Galicia will receive support similar to its productive capacity, and point 7 which collaborates with the sector for an important presence in the Reindus call, amounting to EUR 400 million. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u209	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Pérez. Author of the motion group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u210	The truth, Mr. Rodríguez, I didn't expect this from you. Mr. Tellado, I'm used to it, but I didn't expect the lack of arguments to be used to the indecent personal attack, based on falsehoods. And if anyone has proof to prove otherwise, put it on the table. Falsities! But that, the truth is, I don't... what are you going to ask of a party that supposedly pays sicaires to steal evidence of a trial, what can you expect? If you think these personal attacks are going to affect me, I'm telling you they can wait for you to sit down, because all the information you're handling to attack me is false. [[Applause]] And I say it clearly. And I'm not going to repeat it again because, in total, if they have no arguments, that's what's left: insult. You're talking about spending 150 million euros on the sector. We'd like to know where the 150 million euros were. I don't know, we've been two years, but Mr. Losada hasn't known how many. What did they invest in? What returns were there? What we were talking about: where is that masterboard of that strategic plan that the other day mentioned the counselor?, where can we analyze the evolution ratios of everything I proposed? I planted them as fourteen themes, and you didn't answer any of them. Just like repeating: everything's fine, we support all the workers. The truth is, if you had said so, perhaps I don't know what speciality you have in this sector, but the counselor has it, and the other day he pulled out that which constantly pulls us out of the support of all the workers. No, anyone who develops public industrial policies has to know what a balance of externalities is. And, perhaps, within that balance of externalities, that it supports itself and that it doesn't; we have to see what positive externalities and negative externalities are. And if 100 jobs developed in one industry destroy a thousand quintuples and all the possibilities of developing a region, perhaps, what we have to consider is that we have to look for an alternative for those hundred workers. But don't get involved in industries that leave the territory destroyed and destroy all the possibilities for future development: tourism, mariners, mariners. That's all I think the People's Party will think about, the balance of externalities, because all industrial policies and all development policies that are developing in Europe are very clear. It has nothing to do with the Ence factory where it's just somewhere else. Externalities take social issues into account, take territorial themes into account, take into account location, environmental issues, environmental impact issues. It seems that all of this doesn't matter, we have to support all initiatives, whatever they are and the consequences they have. Well, no. So, to see if instead of saying that everything is okay, to see if they really introduce us, even if it's in the commission, that command painting to see what was done with the 11 million euros that Citroën received to put the brand "Galice" in an electric van that no one came through any street. What's done with those 11 million? We'd like to know. I know you don't care. Well, 11 million to put the mark next door. What's done with those 11 million? [[Murmurs.]] The same thing he told the rest... but is it that hard? If it's so easy, bring the information. Mrs. Presas has already said it: thirty-four applications...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u211	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u212	...I don't carry so many, the truth. So, the amendments, of course, perfectly complement our motion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u213	Do you accept?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u214	...and we accept them, and we will also accept the vote by points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u215	And he also accepts the vote by points. Thank you. At the end of the debate on motions, we shall proceed to the vote. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u216	We started by voting for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mr José Luis Rivas Cruz. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy for the period 2017-2021. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u217	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado. The amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is accepted; the amendment of addition, not the other one. Right? We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to public health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u218	Finally, we voted for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal. Amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Blocs and the Socialist Parliamentary Group are accepted and point voting is accepted. They therefore request separate points 6 and 7. So, first of all, we vote on points 6 and 7 of the motion. We vote. Vote for points 6 and 7 of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal and Mr. José Manuel Lago Peñas, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the employment of the car industry. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68. The voting is positive. Points 6 and 7 of this motion were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u219	We vote the rest of the motion points. Voting of the text dealt with, except for points 6 and 7, already voted, of the motion of the G.P. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal and Mr. José Manuel Lago Peñas, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the employment of the car industry. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected as a transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u220	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with the third point of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López and eight other Members, on the request by the Galician Board to the Council of the Coruña for the transfer of suitable spaces on the market in Santa Lucia to provide health care to the users of the Federico Tapia Health Centre
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u221	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the En Marea Parliamentary Group. [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, through his spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to this Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.Amendment.The text of the resolution of the proposal should be replaced by the following text:"The German Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to reach an agreement with the Council of the Republic to define a possible and feasible project in Santa Lucia, which covers optimal health care for the neighbours and neighbours who join the Federico Tapia health centre, and to carry out as quickly as possible the necessary budgetary allocations for that purpose."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[G. P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs. Eva Solla Fernández, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to this Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.Amendment.The text of the resolution of the non-law proposal should be replaced by the following: "The Galician Parliament urges the Council to continue to work to bring about the provision of a new health centre for the neighbourhood, in an appropriate space that meets the conditions necessary for both the Union and the Council."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u222	Mr Trenor has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u223	Good night, gentlemen. Let's hope that we have a debate that is calm and productive about a claim that is fair to one of the neighbours of the Crown and a narrow attitude of a mayor. The first thing I want to do is highlight the exemplary work of the neighbors of Falperra, a suburb of Coruña that is heroically defending a new health center to have the best health care. And the Popular Group does what it does is to echo the demands of these neighbours. I am an example of civicism and genuine participation, not that false participation that is protected by you, organized by militants of your organizations. Most of the time, even with public charges, contracts, adjudications, and besides, in the Coruña, with a new model, which is that of the beneficiaries for the purchase of housing. This claim is not new. You already know it, because one year ago the neighbors of Falperra brought to this parliament more than three thousand and two hundred firms so that the Marea Town Hall had stopped blocking the construction of the health centre in the Santa Lucia market building. Neighbors defend the need to have an adequate space to build the health centre in the current building of the market in Santa Lucia. They also denounce the attitude of the mayor of the Coruña to continue facing the neighbors among them, leaving the neighborhood and rejecting the dialogue they have been asking for from the very first moment on. The mayor owns the worst of the sovereigns. He doesn't receive or listen to the demands and suggestions of the neighbours. They despised the more than three thousand and two hundred companies that showed the need to implement this reform; they despised the municipal plenary agreements, because they considered that they had only to comply when they agreed to them, and they also despised the votes of the Galician Parliament. This parliament has spoken, this parliament has voted, and the democratic majority of the House has given Mr Ferreiro a mandate. And what did the Tide Government do? What did Julius Ferrier do? To disregard the democratic mandate of the Greeks. And then you have the courage to come here and talk about your knee. Rodillo is what you apply, the worst of the knees, which is contempt for the decision of most of the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen of the Tide, you only understand democracy and votes when they adjust and serve to impose their will, when they allow them to use them against most or when they can manipulate the results. But what are you going to ask if you are unable to have even internal democratic processes and are showing your most devious face, where all manipulation is worth being where Mr. Villares is sitting, even putting his hand on the census and having to resort to asking for the protection of the Civil Guard? The great contribution of the Atlantic Sea to the political debate was to describe the neighbours, the press and even the officials as orphans. But don't be mistaken, that for those of the Atlantic Sea you are orphans too. We, too, have it very clearly, but you don't get confused, you too. What is happening in the Coruña is an absurd thing that very few people understand: an administration that wants to make investments and improve the services it provides to the citizenry, and a mayor who is putting all the obstacles possible to prevent it. We know a lot of mayors, each with their rareties, some complicated. But they all defend investments and improvements to their cities, minus one, Mr. Ferreiro. Ferrier is the only mayor in Galicia to block and hinder investments from the rest of the administrations. It's just like we're talking about investments in infrastructures that improve access to the city, it's like plans or equipment to boost public transport, it's like it's a health center, like this case, or it's like it's a program to help those affected by the evictions, Ferrier is always going to block it. We used to think that these blockades did them because of their inability — they were unable to manage and from there came these blocks — or because of sectarianism. But now we know that behind each of these blocks there is business, business for the tidelords. For example, the improvement of Alfonso Molina, paralyzed. The city stuck every time, and the only one who earned something with all this was the architect, partner of a concierge, who collected from the report they used to block it. The empty housing plan or the construction of the forty public dwellings that you had been blocking for twenty months, thank God, yesterday it was unlocked, and everything to be able to buy, to justify your friends' two dwellings. In that he remained his entire housing policy. But the best example is what's happening: it's the health center of Santa Lucia. And let me take a look at it. The need for improvement of the spaces in which primary health care is currently provided at the Federico Tapia Street Health Centre made a protocol for cooperation between the Council of Health, the Sergas and the Council of the Coruña formalised in October 2014. This protocol included a study that concluded that this location was the most appropriate, by its proximity to the current health centre, by the availability of spaces in that enclosure, by the support of the neighbours to that improvement and by the compatibility of maintaining the jobs of the practitioners. And besides, you could rehabilitate a very degraded space and dynamize the heart of a neighborhood. So far normal, there's a need to improve the health care of the neighbors and the administrations want to solve it. But the problems arise when Julius Ferreiro begins, from minute one, to deceive, to lie, to confuse and to make absurd proposals for the sole purpose of blocking the construction of the health centre. From the very first moment — and it's been three and a half years — there's been a campaign to deceive the neighbors. They said they kept the initial project while they were acting against it; they made it public that they would force the concessionary company to do works amounting to half a million euros that never took place; they canceled the contest of ideas for reform; they lied that the Town Hall had already made the transfer for this space to the Galician Union; they came up to propose that the health center, rather than being done horizontally, if it had been built vertically, on a fifth, on a sixth, on a seventh and an eighth plant. Did the geniuses end there? No, no, no, no. The next was a proposal to take him more than a kilometer to another neighborhood; little lasted that proposal. After all this, of having your neighbors dizzy, of having Sergas doing studies on the feasibility of proposals and of course also having the Marea friends chargeing for making drawings to publish them in the press and keep their farce, and then lying and giving false hopes to the practitioners, after all this, the Marea licited a year ago a project for the reform of the building. He made a bid through the back door and without dialogue, an invitation that prevented the construction of the health and bidding centre that violates the agreement signed by the Town Hall, and that Ferreiro broke unilaterally. And after all this, after three years of tying, lying and blocking, and bidding for the reform project, why is there no health center or anything? Because you got caught with the ice cream truck. You wanted to do what you did with your old prison: you wanted to help your friends. In the old prison, you assisted an intruder of concierge and militants at the Marea and an intruder who is being investigated. And that's what you wanted to do with the Santa Lucia market. And that's why the neighbors are upset, so it bothers them that Sergas, the majority of Parliamentarians and the press are also concerned about all this. But, above all, what bothers them is that the Prosecutor's Office is also investigating them. But, as much as it bothers you, what the neighbors are still asking for is normal in any municipality, which is that mayors solve the problems of the neighbors. Which is normal in any municipality, but not here, because here, in the Coruña, the mayor is the problem for the neighbors. The mayor creates the problem and the neighbors are the ones who pose the solutions. Up to five solutions were raised to the Town Hall by the neighbors, and Ferreiro did not receive them. Ferrier was so sectarian that he couldn't get them. But it's not like that in all administrations. The Health Council did technically analyze the five projects of its neighbours, and these five projects are valid and viable. Ferrier refused to receive the neighbouring representatives of Falperra, so he wouldn't have to listen to their proposals and respond to their requests. You're assuming citizen participation, but it's just a kick to do what you want. From which citizen participatory process came the idea of building the health center on eight narrow plants with access of three meters?, from which citizen participatory process came the idea of taking the Falperra Health Center to another neighborhood?, with whom did they consult it? Did you explain it to the affected neighbors before making it public, did you explain it to the pleasures? What kind of citizen? Where did "Say You" deal with this tax?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u224	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to finish, the neighbors demand a change of attitude from the mayor, they demand that they be heard and that they cooperate loyally with the Council of Galicia, that they intend to make an important investment in a neighborhood so in need of revitalization that improves services, that they also revitalize small trade and that they put the neighborhood first in relation to health care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u226	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u227	...the same as the rest of the city's neighborhoods and the rest of the cities. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u228	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u229	Thank you, President. Good night, we'll be done. Mr. Trenor, I think you've made a complete mistake, in both directions: you've made a complete mistake and you've made a complete mistake. Because, really, what you did in your intervention may be proper to a debate in the City Hall of Coruña, but I believe that when a local matter is brought here, it can be transcendent at the provincial or autonomic level, and then Parliament, this chamber, has a political obligation to pronounce itself. [[Applause]] But, frankly, I think he was totally wrong because, among other things, it is the third time they bring this issue in addition; they brought it to the Commission on March 1st, then they came back to this plenary on January 23rd and now again. And all to reproduce here his particular confrontation with the municipal government of the Coruña. I insist that for this it is, so much so that they speak of the competences, precisely the respect to the municipal plenary of the Coruña. And it's not that it's not important in the city of Coruña to worry about the health center for the neighbors of Falperra, which is, and we will support them. But with what is falling into public health all over Galicia, and also in the Coruña area, it is certainly incredible that they only care about this provision of a health center. Because, precisely, I do not remember any initiative of the People's Party that is concerned about health aspects in the Coruña area, with which it is falling into different themes, in Pediatrics, in the primary care network, or, without going further and in a worrying way, in the whole mental health problem, and specifically, in mental health of children. [[Applause]] But nothing, all that worries is to bring here a debate that can't stand out in the municipal plenary. Because, Mr. Trenor, this morning we just approved the 2019 budgets. I took a look at the investment annex for 2019, and of the just over seventeen million that are listed in that investment annex in sub-concept 621, precisely for "Infrastructures and construction of health centres" — I say for the investment to be well overhauled — in those few more than 17 million, there is not a penny assigned to this health center, not a penny! You have allocated some credit for Narón and you have assigned some credit for the performance in the neighborhood of the Residence in Lugo. [[Applause]] There's nothing. And tell the neighbors of Falperra in Coruña that there is no credit assigned to this health center, that priori seems so concerned to them. The Socialist Municipal Group had presented in May of last year 2017 — as you well know, because they supported it — a motion in this regard, which contained three points. First of all, of course, the municipal government was urged to reach an agreement with the Health Council in the installation of precisely the building of the market in Santa Lucia, which was long demanded as a center, a search for that agreement. It was, of course, requested to count on the active collaboration — which we are aware of — of the Association of Neighbors of Falperra and the merchants of Falperra. And it was inserted in point 4, precisely also the Galician Union, not to impose a solution but to seek an agreement, to reach an agreement with the Council of the Crown without further delay. And in that sense, Mr Trenor, it is the amendment we tabled to their initiative, because we want to replace precisely that intention of imposing on the Council, on the need for an agreement with the Council. But an agreement with the Town Hall also setting out the necessary appropriations in the budgets, which a priori we can't see recorded with the approved budgets this morning. I insist: tell your neighbors of Falperra. Mr. Trenor, in order to finish, because it's going to be late, given the cocktail of issues that he put on top of this atrium, although I insist that this is a debate that has to be held in the municipal plenary, I have no choice but to tell you that for twenty years the city of Coruña has made social and economic progress, for four years of the People's Party — and I am going to use a sort of fashion—the city has entered a tunnel, and they know perfectly well, and during what the city is headed for, it is true that it is not able to get out of that tunnel. We'll have to look for government alternatives in the city of Coruña. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u231	Thank you, President. Well, I don't know if the People's Party now sends out the papers of participation from who can or won't participate. Of course, in the Coruña everyone participates, it doesn't matter whether it's left-handed or right-wing in public opinion, but they don't have the same opinion here. I, frankly, Mr. Trenor, wonder if you're not ashamed to bring this initiative back here. And Mr. Tellado isn't here, but I'm going to paraphrase him: it's a resounding initiative. You bring an early 2017 initiative to discuss a matter that could be resolved if the Board decided on some of the proposals that were made to it. We could be talking about the projects in question. I understand that you may not have the same opinion as the municipal government; I understand it perfectly. But, Mr. Trenor, you came here to campaign, and I think it's irresponsibility. This is the last time we've seen this parliament hear an initiative to campaign the municipalities. That's all right, that's all right! And we've seen this debate as well... No, yes, it's a laugh. [[Murmurs.]] We have seen this debate in Commission 5a as well. I'd be ashamed to bring this debate and make the demagogy that was done here by the spokesperson for the People's Party in this case. Mr. Trenor, you've already been moved: there was no previous project; there was an open contest of ideas to see what was done with the market in Santa Lucia; in that contest the incoming government decided to keep the building as it was; a project was done by Mr. Manolo Gallego, an architect I think it is respected — whether it is one of right or left—generally by the profession, which is the Golden Medal of Galicia, and you say here that the friends of the Marea charge for drawing. I would also ask you to have some respect and some sense when you defend your initiatives, Mr Trenor. A project is being done, it's being consulted at the Galician Council and there's no answer, and after a month and a half, a meeting is being requested. Junta says she doesn't like the tall project that the architect proposes, and in this circumstance it's up to the architect. The architect says that it is not feasible architecturally and technically to make a parallel building, which was what you asked for on the market, among other things, by structural themes — which, of course, will have more knowledge than you and me — and, secondly, by obviously health issues. Sharing space with a market a health center will understand that you have some difficulties as to what is an infrastructure. All right, you guys don't agree. They give them another option, because you introduce a new element that didn't exist in the initial discussion, which they suddenly wanted, the counselor said by that time that he didn't like it in height and that it had to be a horizontal building. They're given a plot -- it's true that far beyond the current building -- but it was the only plot that contemplated the possibility that it was absolutely horizontal, which was what you asked for. They say no, they don't either. And you give them a third choice, after I don't know how long to wait for you to say or do something. And while you try to convince the neighbors that the problem is the Town Hall. It's just a shame, Mr. Trenor, because there may be a difference as to a project, there may be some discrepancy, but listen: three proposals are proposed to you on land to build a health center, and you come here to do demagogy using this initiative to campaign the municipalities. The third proposal was made this same year, which is 200 metres from the plot where the market in Santa Lucia is. They're not worth it either, and there's no proposal. What cannot be, Mr. Trenor, is that by the whims of the People's Party the neighbors have no health center, and come here using the initiative to do demagogy. That's good! You're delaying the city's projects, the project of the market itself, the project that can be done with the adjacent building, and right now also that of the health center. I think you would have to have some responsibility for this element. I'm sure there's a lot more you can campaign in the municipalities than you can, Mr. Trenor. And I don't need to be from the Coruña to know that with the problems of public health throughout Galicia, also in the Coruña, and if you want to also at the CHUAC, and we talk, that you come here to do demagogy using a subject that might be resolved if you didn't have the whimsy of rejecting the three proposals, because, frankly, it doesn't seem to me to be at least acceptable. This is the reality. What's wrong? It is far more profitable for them to say that not at all to continue to use this subject as a matter, as a weapon, and to try to convince the neighbors in the municipal campaign, which, by the way, is seen as you have already begun in the debate. I think it is irresponsible to use this subject when it could be resolved, Mr. Trenor. We have tabled an amendment, which we have already tabled earlier in another debate that we had in Commission 5a — and we must also tell you that there is no start in the budgets for the construction of any health centre, so let's not mention it, Mr Trenor, an amendment that we are asking for is: "The Parliament urges the Joint Committee to continue to work to make reality the provision of the new health centre, in a space that meets the conditions necessary for both the Board and the Town Hall", which should be what it cared about, that the neighbours and neighbours finally have a better health center. And by the way, you haven't talked about any of the current health center. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u232	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. You have the floor by the Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group Galego Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Really to ask for a quiet debate, Mr Trenor, you started well, eh!, you began to marvel! [[Applause]] Well, at the Federico Tapia Health Center in the rainstorm, the facilities are running out, and something will have to be done, right? But politics is slow and tired when it comes to citizens' rights. And if those claimed rights are sanitary, then they want me to tell them at this point in public health! The really strange thing is that it's Mr. Trenor who does the intervention, he would better fit you, Mrs. Mato, as a speaker of the first municipal rally. [[Applause]] I'll tell you. Because at every electoral period the problems arise and be taken into account again because there are elections. The old and the new politics wake up from the drowsy fall asleep and repudiate the old needs to bring them to light, air them and do what is done. In 2014, a protocol signed between the Town Hall, the Health Council and Sergas, theme: functional program to determine new health uses, etc. Let's see the matter with a little clarine. On one side of the ring, there's the municipal government, who instead of taking part in the already signed agreement, making the spaces available and carrying out the works that belong to it, starting to slow down, looking for it to walk the bridges, and so on. Three years' delay. On the other hand, the Government of the Union, which speaks and speaks but does not materialize. In his words there is no intention because there is no fact, there is no provision in budgets or a penny for the urgency of this work. There is also no euro for umbrellas and clothing that frees users and officials from the health centre of humiditys, penguins and other wonders that offers us the state of the facilities. It surprises this propagandistic attitude of the PP, which having and generating problems all over the country with health care, primary care, human resources and health care facilities, come here to show indignation by one, when it suits him, and, if not, it is materialized in the way and way that serious governments point to their priority intentions with specific budgets and projects. And once again they bring here a PNL, which tries to wake us all up, in an exercise of mania imagination, this frivolity. The Galician Union is so demotivated that it needs Parliament to ask the Council to make a request... A little formality, please! The position of the BNG is clear: the work must wait no longer, the pillars should be placed, the partisan guerrillas should be abandoned, and as institutions that are, feel and agree solutions to each other, they should do so. Falperra is suing him. If the Union in the wonderful defence of neighbouring interests, which demonstrate it in the CAP and health centres throughout Galicia, with manifest deficiencies, for if the Union wishes, it can expropriate, in the name of the public good, and do so. Why don't you? You know, Mr. Trenor, that one of the amendments tabled by the BNG to the budgets this year goes on that line, and you said no, did you know? [[Applause]] Well, there it is; I think they can't get it back now. [[Applause]] Look: don't use the needs of this neighborhood to have a generalist and municipalist debate, do it there! The concrete, today's theme is the Federico Tapia Health Center, the conditioning and works of space in the market of Santa Lucia and the solution of deficiencies in public services to the neighbors. Here's the problem. And do it, so we do it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. For the replica round, the author group of the non-law proposition, has the floor Mr. Trenor López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u235	As the story changed, ladies and gentlemen. We've been debating budgets for two months with localist demands, with demands from opposition groups for each of the municipalities where you rule, but as in this case what is being demanded is something to the Council where you rule the Tide, it seems that this is localism for you and it is a political campaign. What paper yours, gentlemen, what paper! Instead of being on the side of the neighbors, they're afraid of the mayor, who the mayor of the Tide can do. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, it's shaking just as Mr. Villares is trembling. [[Murmurs.]] Look what they're doing to him! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] See if they're afraid of you! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are confused. I don't come here to defend a project that benefits the People's Party, or that benefits the Galician Union; it's a project that's good for the neighbours, that benefits the neighbours. We're talking about a health center that can provide health care this century. Is it the third time? Yes, and there'll be more, because we'll keep bringing him here while there's still unfair treatment from the mayor of the Crown. Mr. Villoslada, you are absolutely complicit in everything we talk about. You are the accomplices of the blockades; you are the accomplices of the city's paralysis, of the abandonment of the Crown; you are also the accomplices of the purchase of the apartments. Of all that, ladies and gentlemen, you're accomplices. You put the Marea there, your vows served to keep the Marea lords there and their votes served to approve the budgets with which those apartments were bought. And that, Your Honor, is passing your bill: you already carry four voices, and it seems to sound the drums so there might be even a fifth, Your Honor. The Crown, Mrs. Solla, has become large; they have no project, they have no management capacity. You were a real fraud. All they did was work to benefit your friends. They've been three and a half years and can't do the poorest of the swings than they've done. They can only balance what you've blocked. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u236	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u237	Look, tell me if I'm not ashamed. To me what would shame me would be to put myself on the side of the mayor and not on the side of the neighbors; that would certainly embarrass me. I don't know why you refuse to defend the interests of the Greeks here to take part in a mayor, who knows you — and is convinced — that you are wrong and acting in a completely sectarian manner. And, in addition, you present an amendment that clearly indicates how you are confused with politics. You ask that a new health centre be made in an appropriate space that meets the conditions necessary for both the Galician Union and the Town Hall. But, Your Honor, you don't know, because politics doesn't try to meet the needs of an administration or another administration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u238	Finish, please. And it's positioned on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u239	...it's about meeting the necessary conditions of people; it's about working for the neighbors and for the citizens, not about being content with any mayor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u240	The amendments, Mr. Trenor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u241	We will try to reach an agreement with the Socialist Party. And, of course, we're going to reject that disgraceful amendment presented by the Tide Group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u242	All right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u243	...that he turns his back on the neighbours of the Coruña. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-18-DSPG097.u244	Thank you very much. We'll stop the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thank you very much.
