ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. Let us resume the session with item 6 on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for the oral answer of the President of the Council of Galicia. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece in the face of the enormous discrimination of the Central Government with Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u2	We started with the question of Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u3	Good morning. Mr. Feijóo, a year ago I was asking you about Galicia's cut in state budgets, no less than 440 million euros. Any president would react by looking for his country; any other than you, who has missed the time to bless the cut. And, yes, he announced to us in exchange for candy and plate the creation of a commission to follow up those investments; a commission that never existed, and that would be chaired by yourself. We see, Mr. Feijóo, that his word has the same credibility as the master of Cifuentes, there has been no commission. [[Applause]] But you know what's the worst? Announced investments have not been executed. According to the Budget Project, the State has failed to execute 4 out of every 10 euros committed, and mainly in the works of the AVE, which, as regards the Olmedo-Lubián-Ourense frame, has left half of the advertised box. But how did you react to this situation? Well, asking for a procession; a procession, Mr. Feijóo. This Saturday, in Seville, he asked the Minister of Development to organize a procession in 2019: the procession of AVE to Galicia. And he expressed the wish that the saint of that procession would be President Rajoy, who went up to the AVE, and went down to the Ourense station. I know this looks like a comedy club monologue, but it's you talking about the Welsh AVE in Seville, Mr. Feijóo. A city that's been enjoying the AVE for over twenty-five years, while we're still waiting here, and you're entrusting yourself to Saint Mariajo Rajoy. [[Applause]] And the laughter that caused his civil intervention doesn't cover up reality. This year Galicia receives another beating in state budgets: that they even recognize that this VA to Ourense will not end until 2025. Mr Feijóo, change your santo or recover some dignity and exercise as president of this country. In the 2018 accounts, the state, presided over by St. Rajoy, will spend three times as much on rescuing highways in Madrid as investments in our country. We support the second lower investments in fifteen years, there are no new projects, and the old ones accumulate delays and delays. Again, discriminatory budgets for Galicia, which accept submissively. Nothing to do with that 2008 bean that cried out against budgets that were contempt for Galicia because they only had 2,000 million euros; but now 936 you look like panacea. For all this, Mr. Feijóo, what we ask you is: what are you going to do in the face of state discrimination with Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, I am grateful that you are awaiting the People's Party conventions. You should pay a little more attention in detail not to say a part of what was said, and above all not to make the ridiculous. In any case, Mrs. Pontón, as you want to talk about and it's just about the year 2008, we're talking about the year 2008. You tell me — or at least so, you ask your question — that we are "in the face of state discrimination in Galicia." You've been talking about State discrimination in Galicia since you've been founded, and it's less bad that we're only in the worst place. Mrs. Pontón, what's a problem, according to BNG? For BNG it is an aggravation that the People's Party had always voted in favour of the transfer of the freeway from the Atlantic, and yet it is not an aggravation that you and BNG voted against the transfer of the freeway from the Atlantic. For the BNG, it is an aggravation that the PP had made that the Greeks had not paid the price of the Atlantic highway and saved 400 million euros; however, for the BNG, it is not an aggravation that you and the Socialist Party had agreed that Galicia had paid the fares of the Atlantic highway in the last ten years. For BNG it is an aggravating that we had a budget last year of 11% of the total state investment and in this one 9% of the total state investment; and you are nothing but intended to modify the Autonomy Statute to achieve a magic 8% of state investments. [[Murmurs.]] For you it is an aggravating that the AVE enters Ourense station in 2019 and, however, it is not an aggravating the complicity of the BNG when it constantly and continuously deceived Galicia saying that the AVE would arrive in 2010 and then in 2012. Mrs. Pontón, for you I know what BNG's aggravating is. BNG's troubles are to rule with PSOE at any price. The aggravations of the PP are to conquer concrete things for the country, and that will be my commitment and my approach. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, you said this year's budgets have been bad again. Actually, it's 25% more than last year. Last year, 1,039 million euros and this, 1,300; that makes a difference of 261 million euros; and if you want decimals, 25.1% more. You think this year's budget is aggravating because there's no new project: 4,500 million euros of new projects. Take the frigates, the Vigo-O Porriño bus and add the train that connects the outer port of the Coruña to the interior port and gives it more than 4,500 million new euros. Your Honor, those are the projects of this budget and those are the projects that we have proposed. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, you say there isn't any kind of commission and we don't follow the state's investments. I'm going to give you a data: on December 31, 2017, the adjudications in Galicia—adjudications—was EUR 325 million of the total state investments, about 293 more than last year. Galicia is the first autonomous community of the entire state in adjudications published in the Official State Bulletin. If you had read more the Official State Gazette and not the BNG pamphlets, I'm sure this question would be a little more serious. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u7	Mr. Feijóo, do you know what aggravating is? An aggravation is the veto of the People's Party to the transfer of AP-9; an aggravation is that we have the highest rates and that above all this year there are going to rise more than the average in a country that has one of the lowest wages; and an aggravation is that its holy Rajoy will rescue with money from the Greeks and the Greeks as well as those self-directed Madridns, while here they continue to condemn us to pay more and more. [[Applause]] Of course, an aggravation is that you had been part of the government that promised the AVE in 2009 and that came to me to issue responsibilities, when you've been silent in the face of Mr. Rajoy's failure for eight years. That, Mr. Feijóo, is an aggravating. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But, look, I'd like to make three proposals, because I think it's important that we defend the interests of our country in this House. The first proposal I want to make to you is that we need to claim a plan for the investments that the State has promised and that it has not made: 2,500 million euros exceptional to put in place the projects that this country needs. I also propose that, since these budgets are indefensible and they are an aggravating to our country, that we sit tomorrow itself, if you want to, so that we claim a rise equivalent to, for example, that Euskadi has, 32%. Because you can say what you want, but budgets have risen only 1.3% against 15% of the average increase in the state. That's what you can. And we want investments so that you can really finish the AVE in 2019, because you know that, as it is now, that date is another burn it more. We want there to be real investments for the modernization of the railway also inside, to clean up our rivers, to care for the dependents, because there are many projects, Mr. Feijóo, that this country needs and that are not recorded in those accounts that are embarrassing to our country. And we also took him back, Mr. Feijóo: you defend yourself as a militant in Galicia. Unless there is a fair deal for our country, none of the Members and Members elected by Galicia of the People's Party are going to support some accounts that are, of course, a real harm to us. And, look, I'm done with one last question, if you'll allow me, Mr. President. I think the biggest ridicule is the ridiculous procession of the caladians you've been doing all these years. And, look, let me tell you something with all due respect and, of course, with all your cordiality. I see you've been with your head in Madrid for a long time because you think that with your submission to Mr. Rajoy you have more options to be in that exit box. But the truth is, I think it's very difficult to replace the master of Cifuentes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u9	...will be the photos of Feijóo on the yacht with a drug dealer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Shut up. Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, I have just checked your cordiality and your respect for the President of the Government of Galicia, but it is the same respect you have for most of the Greeks; therefore, I am within that majority. Mrs. Pontón, you and your needs! Look, Mrs Pontón, it is appropriate — I repeat it for the fourth time consecutive — to know how to add and stay; it is fundamental. Because to say that the budget is 1.3%, when it rises 25.1%, it's a small difference, Mrs. Pontón. That's already done in primary school. Then you find the percentages on the amounts, that's already done in high school, but you study, Your Honor, you study. Look, Your Honor, if we had 1,039 million euros last year and 1,300 this year, the difference is 261 million euros; increase, 25.1%. [[Murmurs.]] Why don't you study state budgets before you come here to talk about Madrid, exactly, which is one of your favorite cities? Mrs. Pontón, I'm surprised you're telling me that the trouble is to ban the transfer of AP-9. No, no, no, the trouble is to vote against the AP-9 transfer, as you voted. That's the biggest trouble. [[Applause]] Aggravating is that you pressed the button to pay with the money of the Greeks the fees of a state highway. [[Applause]] That's part of your biography, Mrs. Pontón, of your biography! You will not find a vote against the transfer of AP-9... — Your Honor — of this Member, whether he was in the opposition or he was in the Government. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] That's a small difference between his biography and mine. Mrs. Pontón, let's keep talking, if it seems to you, about something interesting because, if not, saying nonsense, it's not worth it, Your Honor, to continue. Still above average when investment or population seems to be an aggravation to you? You wanted to change the Autonomy Statute to get 8% of the total investment. Last year we had 11% and this year 9.2%. Is the third Autonomous Community on higher investment per capita? Is it the fourth Autonomous Community on the total investment of the general budget of the State of all ministries an aggravating factor? It seems like an aggravating that the president of the Government had come here to compromise, first, his word about AVE in 2019 and, second, a new highway out of budget of 337 million euros, that's an aggravating. Mrs. Pontón, are you in favor of the frigates or against? If you are in favour of the frigates or against, if you are in favour of saying that in Chapter VIII of the Ministry of Economics there are EUR 250 million for Ferrol frigates, then do not continue to lie to the Greeks, who deserve respect. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Pontón, the Journal of Sessions bears witness that this Chair is infinitely more demanding of the Rajoy Government than Mrs. Pontón with the Government of Mr. Zapatero. If you were currently supporting the Socialist Party, as you always do, and ruling the Socialist Party in Madrid and presenting these assumptions, Mrs. Pontón would be celebrating it every weekend. But finally, as it is noted that the minister you most supported in Madrid, since they never had one, is Minister Magdalena Álvarez, that of the Galician Plan of Honey... for, of course, the agravations of the BNG are just the opposite of what Galicia needs. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, I tell you very calmly, last year you blocked the budget for six months, this year you, despite your lack of representation, don't want the state's budgets to be approved, and now you come to tell me that there are inadequate execution of the budget that is approved in a welcome and late manner.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u13	Look, Mrs. Pontón, you decide to go on and on and on and on. I, of course, want the crossings of the AVE, you're always working on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the need to ensure equal access to the public health system of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u15	Good morning, Mr. Feijó. First of all, let me congratulate health professionals on their commitment and professionalism, as well as acknowledge that we are in a public health system that is among the best in the world. Let's get this out of the debate, we all agree. But let me also express my concern and my discomfort, which I think corresponds to most of the Greeks. Short-term blindness concerns showing system managers. I believe that the health adviser and Sergas directors are not aware of the damage the precariousness is causing to the functioning of the Greek health system. A precaution far above normal, very excessive and far beyond what you recognize. According to IGE data, the latest published, if we also take staff in training, the potential health personnel in Sergas exceeds 30%, if we withdraw staff in training, we're 26%, official IGE data published on their website and I have here. It imposes a determined effort to give stability to health professionals, for their professional career, because they deserve it, for their patients, that they will be better cared for, but also because the system will be better managed if we have staff stabilized. And while his government, imbued with a reformist spirit, says in the press, talking about contracts for days or hours, and that's what there is. But look, what there is, if we look at what the workers tell us, is this, said by a system worker, "I've been awarded 270 contracts in five years, even two on the same day." Or a worker, in this case nurse: "They call you for four hours and there is no choice, even if your child is sick." And despite all this, the system resists, the system resists. But we are also concerned about long-term improvisation: the retirement age that rises and falls, a planned retirement of health professionals that we do not have to cover them, MIR squares or insufficient access to medicine to proceed to this coverage, and so on. There's an excessive short-term practice and health professionals don't invent themselves from night to morning, they need ten years since they start entering the Medical School until a perfectly trained professional comes out, and you know that. But short-term blindness, improvisation, cuts and drifting to private health are affecting the quality of the system, and this is perceived by citizens. I understand that there are excessive waiting lists, far above those officially recognized, but these are still excessive. They understand that private health concerts have ceased to be anecdotal, to gain flexibility in the system, to become something structural and that is inevitable, which is essential for the system to work, and we don't want this. And they also know that with the Health Act they're being cut off services and services in certain health areas in the comarcal hospitals, and neither do the citizens nor do we want this. It's degrading the system, making access difficult and consolidating a two-speed health. I believe that they should not agree with this and that these policies should be rectified. That's what I'm asking you to do, Mr. Feijó.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u16	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm grateful that you don't despise the professionals in the system, and I appreciate it because sometimes they're disparaging themselves. You'll remember when they said doctors were high enough to charge incentives, so I appreciate that change in the Socialist Party's heel. I don't think they should get upset because I thank the Socialist Party for a change in size. What is true, Your Honor, is that the data you just mentioned, we'll talk about them, they don't correspond to reality. No, they don't correspond to reality because when we got to the board the Bipartite health budget was 3.500 million and today it's 252 million euros plus, plus 7%, despite having still 1,500 million euros less budget than the Bipartite had. It does not correspond, Your Honor, because this Government has prioritized health in front of any other issue in the field of budgets, in fact, never, in any assumption, in Galicia's budgetary history, health had 40% of the total resources. It doesn't correspond, Your Honor, speaking of professionals, because today there are 1,544 professionals more than when you were in government. Family doctors, for example, 7% more and I would get 6% more. It doesn't match because we have 37% more surgeons than when you were in government, and it doesn't seem like you're talking to me about waiting lists because we have the lowest waiting lists since there are logs. For example, for serious pathologies when we came to government, we were waiting for 40 days, and now we're waiting for eighteen. So, Mr. Leicega, you should check some data. Your Honor, you know that the greatest effort in building, equipment and expanding hospitals has been made in the previous legislation and in this one: 700 million euros. And we continue, and we continue to compromise. You shouldn't be twisting the data of what we want to do with the comarcial hospitals. First of all, lick them by law, which they weren't. Secondly, creating twenty-one more clinical services in the comarcal hospitals, where 300,000 citizen displacements were avoided to the cities. I mean, what we want to do with comarcal hospitals is that citizens living in rural areas have the same services as those living in village centers, in city centers. I suppose the Socialist Party should agree. That's what you're trying to do. When we do 300,000 more consultations in comarcal hospitals now than before, how can you say we don't give a fair health? When we're reforming and expanding all the comarcal hospitals, which you didn't expand, how can you possibly say this? Mr. Leicega, let's talk about human resources. I already tell you, during these years of crisis, of weak cows, of recession, we have increased 1,544 health professionals. But we made the public job offer, 6,133 squares during the years of the recession, and now we've just signed an agreement with the unions to take out another 5,000 squares. That is, during these years, between those executed and those committed 11,000 new fixed squares in the Galego Health Service. Tell me some community that took this percentage of squares. We're talking about Andalusia. How long has Andalucia been without taking public health job offers? Objective, Mr. Leicega... Mr. Leicega... Mr. Leicega, I was trying to give you a data that might interest you. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Ah! well, you can do two things at once, that's good! I'm saying the goal, Your Honor, is that the percentage of interinternage in Galicia in Sergas is already 5%, 5%. You have my word that with the job offers this year... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u19	...and from next until 2020, the percentage of inter-internage in Sergas is 5%. Wouldn't you be proud of that, Mr. Leicega? Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u21	Yes, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, the workshop with the professionals is shown when Mr. Touriño's government set in motion a professional career, just to give him dignity. And by the way, in health budgets you know that in real terms there is a fall of 10% in comparison to the year 2008, in real terms, which is how to do it. [[Applause]] I know you want to be strict, do the math like that. But look, in the comarcas services I could say a lot of things here, but the truth is that Cardiology is slowly disappearing and even where it's kept, as in Salnes, it's only for those of Vilagarcia and Vilanova, and the rest — two days a week, eh! — of the citizens in that health zone have to go to the other side, they have to go to Pontevedra. That's not what we said. And in Valdeorras, what about Traumatology? That substantially reduces the number of doctors, the rehabilitators disappear. That's why we did, when the Health Act was processed, the proposal to create a catalogue of services that would allow comarcial hospitals to get at the right level, not with all the benefits, but with those that, at least, there are in some of them, in four years. And you voted against it. I propose that we resume that catalogue of services, where we can meet again. And the waiting lists. Look, it turns out we took EOXI from Vigo, Traumatology. Do you know how many patients are on the waiting list considering queries, diagnostic tests and operations? More than 10,000, only in Traumatology in Vigo. Do you know how much the average wait is in this area considering the three steps? More than ten months. But an average ten-month wait means that there are patients who have to wait more than two years to be cared for, and this is absolutely excessive. And I have here, in other areas and in other specialties, consultations that take 15 months, or even more in Ophthalmology and other specialties, that I can show you right now. So we need a staff plan, actually, we need to create new squares enough, we also need to reduce eventuality, but we need to start by recognizing what is there, and we need more MIR squares, increase them by 25% in order to meet the retirements that will occur. I don't have much time to talk about drifts, but at any rate I have to tell you that we are not in favour of consolidating or investigating the health system. That's why I want to make another proposal, and the proposal is that we amend the Law of Guarantees so that by fulfilling Article 26, a report which is mandatory annually and which has never been brought here, but which is mandatory, to include in that report corrective measures so that where we detect that there is a structural situation of weakness of Sergas we put in place those processes that allow us to recover for the public professional practical system in Sergas that only private entities make them lost...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u23	...including the possibility of being able to do it. And I have already told you that we will present some initiative in this Parliament. I'll repeat it, staff plan and plan opening of surgeries, service catalogue and modification of the guarantee law to recover for the public domain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u25	...what we're losing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u27	These are proposals I should estimate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u28	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u29	Thank you very much. Too bad, indeed, Mr. Leicega, that in addition to approving things you did not leave any money to execute them! Right? That would be great. [[Laughter]] You imagine they didn't leave the 2,500 million euros of bead that they left at the end of a government of only four years, would it not, Mr. Leicega? [[Murmurs.]] Wouldn't it be different? But you don't want to talk about the counterfeiting of the 2008 budget and the 2009 budget, and negative liquidations against the Greeks at 2,500 million euros, which they don't want to talk about. And that's why teaching what the Socialist Party does in health is just a sarcasm. Mr. Leicega, I'm used to quite a lot of the Socialist Party's mess about health, you're now killing them. There's a waiting list, yes, you just forgot to say that there's a lot of waiting list, yes, it's true, much less than when we ruled. That was the logic, Mr. Leicega. To complete the story, about Vigo you are now changing, you are responsible for the history of Vigo and the history of Galicia, you will always be careful to deceive Vigo people saying that there was a private hospital in Vigo, when there is the best public hospital that this government and any government in Galicia did. [[Applause]] You cheated on this control session saying that in Vigo we charged the patients for sleeping in the chairs of the rooms, and no one resigned after falsifying the reality of the session log. So what you say about health in Vigo, as you can imagine, is only taking advantage of the inventory. Mr. Leicega, to us when we passed the Law of Assurances, that you were unable to approve it, that is, maximum waiting times, and if we are not solvents enough to answer you have the right to go to another hospital, they told us: another privatization more. As a result, 7,269 persons benefited from this decree. All, 100 percent, operated in other public hospitals. Mr. Leicega, you just made another one, saying that the concerts increased them, five percent less concerts than when you ruled. A guarantee from the public health system that you didn't offer, and it's constantly and continuously the way to deceive. You say, indeed, that in planning, in relation to MIR squares, decisions had to be made ten years ago. Indeed, in 2008 you began the second magnificent legislate of the unforgettable President Rodríguez Zapatero, from 2008 to 2011. In fact, we've been left with unplanned health care, and we have very serious problems with professionals and comarcas hospitals to guarantee specialists. And when we make a decision so that in the comarcal hospitals there are specialists and we have the same criteria and guarantees as in the city hospitals, you vote against. Not only that, but you and your boss are protesting against public health in Verín. There you are, Mr. Leicega, part of each person's biography. I've been listening so many times to the privatization of health that, as you can imagine, the vast majority of the Greeks who listen to us when they hear a politician talk about the privatization of health will ask you, do you know what you did for the health of your country? I can answer what I have done for the health of my country: reform all hospitals and make new hospitals. Mr. Leicega, since you are very interested in health care, I will leave, if it seems to you — if you do not think it is necessary — to consult the CIS barometer, the last health barometer: for 84% of the Greeks improved primary care, for 67% hospital consultations, 71% believe that it improved hospital care and in emergencies 62%. It's obvious that in most citizens who think you've improved health you're not, but most people do. What matters is not what you say and what I say, what matters is what we do: more interventions, more investments, more technology and more personnel. This is the last, Mr. Leicega — that is Monday — the Grand Hospital Montecelo, the new hospital in Montecelo. You have this commitment, assumed by the Government and the President of the Union. Today in one year, Mr. Leicega, ask me — Mr. Leicega, if I'm making a proposal that can be intelligent — if this one year this hospital in Montecelo is in the Official Journal of Galicia or not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u31	If he isn't, I certainly haven't kept my word. But if you are, Mr. Leicega, at least stop criticizing public health so strongly. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, of the G. P. de En Marea, asked Mr. President of the Galician Government about the decisions of the Central Government concerning the construction of a highway parallel to the AP-9 between La Coruña and O Porriño while they were rescuing privatised highways
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u33	Good morning, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, the highway of the Atlantic is referred to in Annex II to the State Road Law, 37/2015, here it is, and it is described as a highway that has a reference route: La Coruña, Santiago de Compostela, Pontevedra and O Porriño. I mean, it's an infrastructure that aims to structure Galicia from north to south from La Coruña to El Porriño in a place where there is already a high-capacity infrastructure, like the AP-9. It is therefore the duty-free replication of a highway that currently exists and has a fee, which is AP-9. A-57, therefore, replicating AP-9. This is a highway, it's not a circle. Last week the president of the Government, Mr. Rajoy, visited the works at Pontevedra, accompanied by the mayor of that municipality, and there they visited some works that were already denounced by the Platform Save the Fracha as something that was being said it wasn't. It's not a circle of Pontevedra, it's a real highway that's here referred to in the State Road Law. Pontevedra already has a circle, which is AP-9. And a circle, which is AP-9, which in addition could already be public and free of charge if by the year 2000, when it was near the end of the concession, the governments of Fraga and Aznar did not agree to increase, renew their concession until the year 2048. So with good management, AP-9 could already be public today and free of charge. The economic cost of building A-57, which is defined and collected in the State Road Law, is estimated at EUR 1.2 billion, taking into account that the Ministry of Development says that each kilometer costs about EUR 7 million. 1.2 billion euros that would perfectly save AP-9, because when it was privatized by the government of Aznar, as you know, that was for a price of about 1 billion euros. So we would have enough resources with this budget to rescue AP-9. In addition, one question has to be asked, in case A-57 is built complete, where would you go from the Coruña to Santiago? For example, does AP-9 pay the fee or the A-57 free? Most of the Greeks, of course, would choose to go for free, and that would give rise to a paradox, after building with 1.2 billion euros a new highway to the concessionaire, the highway, would break and pass as it happens on Madrid's radials, it would have to be rescued with public money, so that we would have a round business here thanks to its Government. On the one hand EUR 1.2 billion in duplicate infrastructure, and within a few years you have to rescue an infrastructure that is not serving the dealership. The question is, who benefits from this whole situation? This isn't a good model for managing public resources, it's not a good model for managing to spend — pull with the money — 1.2 billion euros so that later you have to rescue AP-9. If you don't benefit from citizenship, who do you benefit?, the builders? Does the People's Party benefit?, does it benefit you?, do you get something clean with this bus, consenting to this bus? If you as President of the Galician Council have some authority to look after our country's interests, you should demand that the EUR 1.2 billion that costs this bus be designed to immediately rescue AP-9 and convert it into a free, public, and free-of-charge infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u34	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, ask yourself if the Government is in favour of an alternative to the Atlantic motorway. Your Honor, I belong to a demanding government, because it represents a demanding people, and of course we are in favour, not only that, but that we have already done so. Yes, yes, you should know that you're doing the public transport bus, which for the first time was done in Galicia parallel to the Atlantic coast highway, which is the Atlantic axis train, 3,000 million euros. Oh, are you laughing? Ah, well! Well, if you laugh that most of the Greeks have already started taking the train and leaving the freeway to the Atlantic, it makes me feel like you're laughing at most of the Greeks. But there you are, Mr. Villares, there you are. [[Applause]] There you are, Mr. Villares, if you make a public transport train of 3,500 million for much of the economic recession and put it into service — with eighty minutes from Vigo to La Coruña, from La Coruña to Vigo, passing through Santiago, through Pontevedra, through Vilagarcia, and being able to connect with Ourense — you seem just a little less interested. Well, you know, the number of passengers, the number of passengers who used that train at Santiago station is 2 million and a half people. We're 100,000 of Lavacolla's total travellers. Do you think this is a joke? So let's continue with the jokes about En Marea's infrastructure policies. Look, Mr. Villares, what do we have to do? You're against the fact that if you make a highway parallel to the highway, of course, that's what En Marea's proposal is, that's already reflected in the Diary of Sessions. You're opposed to continuing to vertebrate the territory, you're against making a highway that passes through where there are no high-capacity roads and that it continues to vertebrate the territory. You're against the variant of Orders, the variant of Sigüeiro, the circle of Pontevedra, which now you've called it highway, and I appreciate it, indeed, because it's a highway. You're against continuing to vertebrate the country, and surprisingly you've come to me in the name and representation of Audasa. He wants us to buy the Audasa bus, that is, with the money of the people we paid for the Audasa for a second time and without managing, that Audasa will enter EUR 3,000 million, that he will give us that highway and that the investment funds and the Audasa holders would laugh at the beating jaw of the Greek contributors and Spanish contributors. It is, of course, a proposal for infrastructure to frame, Mr. Villares. But did you really not see the alternative map of what's going to connect the highway through phases? And in my opinion, rather late, what do we have to do to eliminate or have an alternative to the beach bus? Look, the toll until 2048 is compromised, what do we have to do? A bus before. How's that highway going? Don't worry, Mr. Villares, that's their problem, it's not our problem. At this point, we have a railway that is decreasing traffic on that highway. The more railroads, the less peas, and perhaps they learn to lower the rates. Learn, yes, of course, indeed. I, of course, didn't climb the beaches. [[Applause]] But in addition, Your Honor, the people who take your infrastructure into your group, if someone's dedicated to it, know that when highways automatically liberalize traffic, they automatically increase traffic. Do you know why we had to put two more lanes on Santiago's Circulation? Do you know why we had to put two more lanes on Rande's bridge? Because the toll has been liberalized and traffic has increased.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u37	What you're proposing is to give Audasa 3,000 million euros and, in addition, start spending money to expand that highway, and also not to continue to vertebrate the territory so that people who have inadequate communication will continue with that inappropriate communication forever. Mr. Villares, I understand your proposal, I have studied it with respect, what I cannot understand, in any case, is who your advisor has been to ask you that the Standard variant, which is gathering 10,000 vehicles, or that the Borough Peace Councils, from Caldelas Bridge or Sardinian to Cotobade, which will be joined by that highway around Pontevedra, cease to have a high-capacity road. But do you think the only thing that exists in Galicia are the cities?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u38	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u39	Can't you go to the neighbours of Sardinia or to the neighbors of Ponte Caldelas with these jokes? Mr. Villares, I tell you with absolute cordiality, I believe that proposal is detrimental to Galicia and does not tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u41	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u43	That's nice, Mr. President. You're acknowledging that there's an alternative to rail traffic, but at the same time it defends us to build a second highway in parallel to AP-9 less than ten kilometers away, in parallel. But what are we talking about? 1.2 billion euros thrown into the trash of all the Greeks and Greeks that could be used to rescue AP-9 right now, what are we talking about? A highway with its origin and destination The Coruña and Santiago, which establishes the State Road Law itself, what are we talking about? Are you willing to authorize, consent and support that a highway is built in parallel with AP-9, in parallel with AP-9 between Santiago and La Coruña? Man, I'm sure he's not, but I'm forcing him to say yes to you. Because it's clear who makes those maps of the bus doesn't make them from here, those maps are made from Madrid, they are made from Madrid. The same ones that fake the masters must be the same as the buses, they must be running, they will handle maps before the 1970s to update the running infrastructures. You're sure you didn't want this, but they make you swallow that infrastructure because you don't have any more remedies, you don't have authority as President of the Board to make use of an issue that's logical, that you can't put in 1.2 billion euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u44	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u45	...to that end...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u46	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u47	You don't have that authority. Nor does he have it — and that's the reason for his silence — to be able to explain the things that affect the whole of citizenship, why this waste of EUR 1.2 billion? Neither on the outside nor on the inside, to make use of his authority with the things that harm the whole of citizenship. And that's why he keeps quiet with the infrastructures and keeps complicit silences, too, of the things that happen in his party. That's why you can't report...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u48	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u49	...and you cannot in that case request the resignation, for example, of the mayor of King's Palace, who is condemned for prevarication, who is condemned for harassment to an official...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u50	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u51	...and that's still there because you can't lift your silence to do it. Nor is he able to raise his silence to explain why a few months ago he awarded a medal to a Fernández Albor who had been without going to work for three years, a medal at work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u52	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u53	...to a Fernández Albor who had been unemployed for three years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u54	Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u55	And what they did, only and exclusively...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u56	Then the president answers. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u57	...that's what you're dedicated to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u58	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u59	...only and exclusively to buy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u60	Quiet. Answer the president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u61	...and selling silences. That's what they bought with that medal and that's what they bought with that salary, the president of the old board, that's so ugly! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The ugly one was, Madam, meeting in Portugal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u62	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u63	...with the heads of the Welsh drug...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u64	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u65	...and then, even today, received a medal for those facts. A silence that turns you into an accomplice, just as it turns you into an accomplice...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u66	Quiet. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u67	...of another crime...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u68	Quiet. Silence! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u69	...from what we've already asked you to explain here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u70	Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u71	...and what you haven't explained yet. Which government delegate passed the photos to you with your marcial dorado drug dealer friend? [[Murmurs.]] That situation is the covering up of a delicious fact that is the revelation of secrets that are under summary. [[Murmurs.]] You're covering up the crimes inside your party. Do you want to explain why you're doing this and why you can't explain in this House the questions you're asked about, not about, not about, not about, 1.2 billion euros or about, not about, your complicit silences? I'll tell you why. Because the day you want to raise them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u72	Finish it, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u73	...there will be others who will be the same as exerting authority on hammers on hard drives, just as they exercise authority by revealing their photos with Dorado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u74	It's over now, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u75	It will be those who reveal their uncomfortable silences.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u77	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u78	Thank you, Mr. Villares. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Quiet. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Villares, I'm sorry. You asked a wrong but respectful question, and in the replica we just met, really, like you are. Yes, as you are. And we are concerned, but we are not worried as a Member — that we are not worried about anything at all — because you have a number of responsibilities which is to continuously charge crimes using their inviolability. It is regrettable for any Member of the House, but for someone who tries to impart justice it is to reflect on it. Is Spanish legislation correct on these matters? When you definitely leave this House, will you give us assurance that you will respect people's presumption of innocence? A person who constantly slanders and insults, even to people who have reached the age of 100, is he able, really, not to represent the Greeks — who, in my opinion, in any case — but to impart something as fundamental as justice? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You should review the minutes of that session where Members belonging to an ideological inscription similar to yours — for you no longer have any — such as Mr Geluco or Mr Camilo Nogueira, in which respect the President of the Union has been treated. And you just crippled the biography of a president of the Autonomous Community again. I'm already used to this, Your Honor, but I think Mr. Albor doesn't deserve this kind of comment; especially this kind of twisting of truth, reality and history. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I refer to that Journal of Sessions of the entire opposition, which they could say Mr. Albor sinned of naivety, but they never admitted any kind of responsibility of Mr. Albor. Look, even if you had lived two lives, you wouldn't be able to live up to President Albor's dignity. [[Applause]] No, no, I know, Mr. Villares, that this is not normal in your group. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I know that in your group no one defends anyone. You want me to talk to you about that? No, no, no, no. Mr. Villares, don't use me to solve the problems of lack of authority in your group. [[Laughter]] We continue to observe with great thoroughness how events go and how you go up all day in credibility, rigour and leadership. Let's encourage this climb to infinity. Mr. Villares, you are a spokesperson for the single opposition — and I am not really going to go into that matter, I am saying that you are unique because you are the first spokesman for the opposition that is against making investments in the Autonomous Community. He's been against the high-speed train and now he's against a highway that's sweeping the territory. It's amazing! Hey, why do we make a bus between Lugo and Santiago if we can use the highway that goes from Lugo to Coruña and get into one of the parts and come to Santiago? What do you think is fatal to you that by Melide, by Arzua, by Palas passing the bus? If it's unnecessary! You remind me of a citizen officer who came here the other day and asked him if he agreed with AVE in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] And he said, we're not against the AVE to Galicia, but what we have to do is a train that actually joins the cities of Greece before we make the AVE to Galicia. But, ladies, if that train was opened three years ago! And the alternative of public transport, the highway, is opened three years ago. [[Murmurs.]] You have the same interest in Galicia as the citizens' lords, sir of the tides.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u81	But there you are, Your Honor, there you are! [[Applause]] Each one is guilty of what he says and the owner of what he shuts up. [[Applause]] I'd rather be quiet. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause]] We continue with the agenda at point 4. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and eleven other Members, on the drive by the Greek Government of legal reforms that are appropriate for the Galician Union to be able to defend the rights of victims and to take criminal action in trials for crimes of discrimination arising from or because of the family situation as a result of the woman's motherhood
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u83	Amendments have been tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u84	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Conciliation, co-responsibility... — thank you — and equality are words we speak very often. [[Murmurs.]] We are all aware of the importance of providing society with conciliation resources and of taking measures that guarantee and promote co-responsibility. [[Pause.]] The fact is that we are constantly designing policies to achieve full equality, but it is also our obligation to put in place measures that prevent or punish discrimination. Many of the rights we enjoy today women are the fruit of an untiring struggle for real equality between men and women. It is a reality that legal equality already exists, although it is more questionable that we have achieved real equality, especially with regard to work. Women's employment figures show that in Galicia we've been moving towards greater participation by women in the labour market for years. Today in Galicia the affiliation of women is greater than in April 2009, 1.6%; today in Galicia the weight of women's affiliation is the greatest of all autonomous communities, because here more than 48% of the members of social security are women, and in Spain it is 46.28%, two points below our autonomous community, and at the time of the Bipartite we were at 42.16% and 45.27, swinging in those years. Today in Galicia, eight out of ten busy women have a full-time job. Today in Galicia, seven out of ten women have an indefinite job. And in Galicia, wage deviation between genres is below the average of Spain, 21.98%, we are the sixth community with the lowest gap. Today in Galicia more than 60% of the technical and professional occupations of scientific or intellectual content are women, 60.4%, 4 points more than the national average. Today in Galicia we have 12,300 women in management and management posts, 31.4%. Of course it's a lower target than we intend, but what's clear is that it's 2,600 more women in executive positions than five years ago. Nearly 50% of last year's contracts were women, 47.62%, and, most importantly, 72% of indefinite contracts are also women. Ladies and gentlemen, there are still challenges to achieve, we still have a lot of work to do. And although women have been fully incorporated into the public domain, we find that there is not the same symmetry with respect to men. Men did not join in the same way as family care, child care and household work. All we have to do is take a look at the number of requests to reduce the number of days by family care of men and women, a data that remains unchanged in Spain over previous years in excess. In excess of 90.57 % of these work permits were requested by women in 2017 for children, children and children and families. More than that confirms that today's family responsibilities and the care economy continue to fall to women. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, while we do not revert to this situation — we have to do so, we have to put in place measures to do so, we are putting in place policies to encourage it — working mothers are a collective that requires a special degree of legal protection to prevent that because of their pregnancy, maternity leave and other rights derived from it may be subject to labour discrimination, harassment or dismissal. Both maternity and pregnancy risk are situations that affect women exclusively. In view of the fact that these permits are absolutely majority on the part of women, in particular the risk benefit for pregnancy, we therefore have an obligation to step up the protection of this right, non-discrimination, to guarantee equal opportunities for men and women. The doctrine of the Constitutional Court is very clear and considers that pregnancy is a differential element as an incontrovertible biological fact that affects women exclusively, and implies the protection of the biological condition and the health of the working woman, which has to be compatible with the preservation of her professional rights. In such a way that any undervalue or prejudice caused by pregnancy or maternity constitutes an assumption of direct discrimination on the basis of sex. Ladies and gentlemen, business conduct cannot violate the right not to suffer discrimination on grounds of sex and that there is no prejudice to women because of their status as women, pregnancy or maternity. Being a mother doesn't make a worker less convenient to the interests of employers, worse worker or less committed. Our current legislation is very clear about the situation of harassment at work and especially about the protection of maternity, especially in the working environment. Therefore, legislation is decisive when it comes to regulating harassment or so-called motherhood, from international treaties to state legislation, through the Staff Regulations of Workers, by different specific laws and the Constitution itself, of course. And all laws, both state and Welsh, concerning equality issues promote a demand for compliance with the principles of gender equality and those that promote equal work for women of state and Galicia. So, with the current legislation in force, there is enough legislation to protect and, if so, penalizes the serious situations caused by situations of harassment or maternal mobility. In addition, we must remember that the Labour Inspectorate pursues all kinds of infringements of labour law. From the People's Parliamentary Group we want to take another step and involve the Council of Galicia as a guarantor of compliance with the legislation in force in the criminal field and that it can take criminal action in the courts for crimes of discrimination arising from motherhood. Article 314 of the Criminal Code punishes those who produce serious discrimination in employment against certain persons because of, inter alia, their family situation, the extreme meaning of the maternity situation. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in order for the Autonomic Administration to be able to carry out criminal proceedings in these cases, it is necessary that this should have legal status. So we need a modification of our legislation to allow the Galician Union to characterise itself as a popular or particular accusation in these assumptions. The Civil Judgment Act, article 109 bis, which was adopted by Law 4/2015 of 27 April 2015 of the Statute of the Victim of Crime, provides that possibility: "Criminal action may also be exercised by the victim's associations and by the legal persons to whom the law recognizes legitimacy to defend the rights of the victims, provided that this is authorized by the victim of the crime". Well, we have as precedent the Greek Law 11/2007, of July 27, for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence, which regulates the exercise of popular action by the Autonomous Administration in cases of gender-based violence, in article 30. And, in particular, it should be noted that the law of Wales, now that it is recast in Legislative Decree 2/2015, already collects preventions concerning the struggle and labour discrimination due to maternity. And in Article 1 we see the commitment to the elimination of discrimination between women and men and to promotion, giving it greater effectiveness in the field of its competences to the constitutional principle of equal opportunities. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the concept of discrimination expressly includes the less favourable treatment for a woman in relation to pregnancy or maternity leave in Article 2.5(c) of this Legislative Decree also includes the principle of eradication of moral harassment on the basis of gender. Therefore, the protection of women against all kinds of discrimination and, in particular, against discrimination in relation to maternity is a principle that is legally regarded as a fundamental commitment to self-government. Therefore, with this initiative that we are drawing up in this non-law proposal tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group today, we propose a legislative reform that reinforces this commitment by the Self-Government and enables the Galician Union to defend the rights of victims — always authorized by them, of course — to carry out criminal proceedings for crimes of discrimination arising from or because of the family situation as a result of the woman's motherhood. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Well, since the Galego Nationalist Block, we sincerely want to see this initiative as a reflection that the People's Party, after the historic mobilization of feminism in Galicia on 4 and 8 March, has come to some kind of reflection and wants to put upon the table its will to move forward. We want to see him in this direction, but the truth is, what we've seen after this month does not seem to us to be your responsibility and sufficient ambition in the face of the challenges we all have. Allowing the rights of victims in criminal matters to us is an important issue. I want this to be clear on the table and that we do not want this proposal at all. But we think there's a fundamental problem that we cannot ignore and that we can't leave behind either in the political agenda, which is the absence of Galician Union in the pre-judicialization phase, where women are discriminated against and need advice, needs support, needs support. We have recently proposed proposals on the table to strengthen this area which for us, in the field of equality and in the field of work, is becoming a child, as it would be a value of equality, to enforce that legal framework which is undoubtedly ambitious and important but which we have often used and remains in theory, remains in the role and not in practice. That's why we still miss that previous part where we notice an important absence. Because the truth is, when a woman gets to the side of the judiciary already because she's already in many empowered cases, she's already had a union or private counseling or an important office. So we'd like to see a greater effort in the previous part, because that's where many people are left without taking that step. You were talking about measures to prevent and punish discrimination. We lack measures to prevent and we also lack measures to sanction. In that sense, since the Galician Nationalist Block has no representation in Congress and you constantly remind it in this House, because I can't stop installing it again, both to you and to the opposition groups, to that in this political context of the absence of an absolute majority of Mr. Mariano Rajoy once, before the end of the legislation, there are economic sanctions for companies through state legal reform. We amend with two questions. The first is to extend the action of the Board beyond the cases of maternity discrimination. We understand that most cases are motivated, directly or indirectly, by this maternity condition and precisely many times it is in the judicial process where it is shown that the ultimate cause was that maternity. And we think that we should have a broader a priori field of view, without disengaging ourselves from that complexity and mostly those maternity cases. We think that Article 314 of the Criminal Code, which you yourself cited, gives a wider fan and that we should go there and not limit ourselves to the issue of maternity. In any case, we want to put the accent on another issue too. It seems very good to us that you come with this proposal, but we understand that the story should be applied a little bit. Because, the truth is, you come to tell us that it's important for the Galician Union to join in criminal action! when, first, there are very few cases that come to this criminal action and when you have examples known by Mr. President of the Galician Council, Mr. Employment Adviser, Mrs. Infrastructure Advisor, Mrs. General Secretary of Equality, by the Directorate-General for Mobility, examples sentenced by the Social Court, examples with acts and mandates of the Labour Inspectorate itself, examples of remaining demonstrated, such as that of Nelida Pisco, in which we ask them again to be involved in this House, and you do absolutely nothing, look to the other side, and, above all, they have awarded more concessions to that company which directly violated a woman's right to exercise her motherhood. This woman is already in criminal custody. [[Applause]] More than a year ago, when we brought this case to this House, this woman was starting the complex criminal procedure. You still have the chance, the case is not yet seen for trial, it's not set that date yet, and you still have an opportunity to rectify this case and many others. Because it's very good that they come here with their good conservative morals to propose a measure that, of course, we do not want to demean ourselves, but it would also be good that the story has been applied a little bit, not in everything they can do by exercising the competence that they already have for the previous phase of avoiding discrimination and intercede in phases prior to the judicial process. But as far as they're above the table, and even Mrs. Prado Cores, in an inquiry with the Secretary General of Equality, has facilitated a file and facilitated a telephone number on this case, they've done absolutely nothing about a company that directly depends on the Galician board. So we can't stop feeling a sour taste...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u89	...in the face of initiatives like this, in the face of which we put all our good will to improve them, but we understand that the attitude on the part of the Greek Government is not reliable nor is it being guaranteed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u91	Thank you, President. Good morning. "The Government bets on every budgetary period by increasing the conciliation resources available to the Greeks and the Greeks," literally says this initiative, with which we can agree for its last purpose, but the fact is that the data, Mrs. Paula Prado, which you gave here, when a resort to the December 2017 EPA, i.e. official data, is said to be the following: that Spain is the second country in the European Union with the highest rate of female unemployment — earns us Greece —; that we have a salary gap in Galicia — this data in Galicia — between women and men of more than 20%; that the rate of temporality in women rose from 24.1% in 2013 to 28.7% in 2017; that in the last year there are 4,300 temporary wagers more than 3,200 more defined; that being a woman, and above all women under 30 years — who would enter into this initiative of what you are talking about, because, of course, only covers a part of the women who are due to their living condition in time," is linked. In 2017 63.7% of women under 30 had a temporary contract. In private sector employees under the age of 30, the rate of timeliness has also increased. If in 2014 they had a temporary employment relationship of 24.5%, in 2017 it was 29.1%. Last March there were in Galicia 24,000 women more than men in unemployment and maternity leave applications amount to 97.78 % for women. With this data, Mrs People's Party, the fact is that we believe that there is a much more important problem than what you bring us here today, which is also important. But there's a basic problem that gives rise to exactly what you bring us here today. The truth is that what is involved — we believe — is to create a concrete legislation to eliminate all gender roles and discrimination by motherhood. And there are several solutions. We will not ask them to adopt that solution from the great orchestras, which is to close the screen for those who will be elected and those who will be elected as new and new songs are not seen by the court and so it is chosen both women and men, because, of course, in the case of work it is quite complicated to do that. But if we ask them, for example, to resort to something that would solve the basic problem and avoid having to go to trial, which is what you refer to on this initiative, and is to equate the time of parental leave and maternity, and we would largely solve the problem. That four to five-week extension patch of the paternity permit Mr. Rajoy has agreed with Mr. Rivera within the state's general budgets for 2018 is nothing more than that, it's a patch. And we don't know if these weeks are mandatory or not, and they're not transferable and they're not continuous, we don't know whether they're continuous or not, they can't start in several periods, not even half and half. You don't agree to going up, for example, that paternity permit progressively every year until you get to the absolute match, you don't accept it. This initiative is fine, but you yourselves are aware that right now the Government of the United States can act as a particular charge in public crimes, that is to say, they begin on their own. In all the crimes of murder of women the Government is already personified, the Council of Galicia is already personified as a particular charge. But there is a basic problem of doctrine with regard to semi-public crimes, following the victim's complaint, which would be precisely this case. If the women in this situation don't report, it'll be very complicated, as much as it changes — and we'll see how the legislation changes — that option. In any case, within what is in our competence, it would be as easy as to rule out, for example, the possibility that the Council of Galicia lawyers will be in charge without the need to pass that prior filter of the Council of the Union; that is, as an exception to the general norm which sets out the Law of the Legal Counsel of Galicia, of the year 2016, which was approved here, that you promoted and that you did not agree at that time of this possibility; yes, perhaps — as the spokesperson of the BNG said earlier — for those reminders that come to their head on March 8. You rule in Madrid, you have your own parliamentary group in Congress and Senate, in the Senate by an absolute majority. You ask them there to do as they ask here, but to do so, to ask the parliamentary group, the Congress and Senate groups, and to do so by the Government of Mr. Mariano Rajoy. And they also reform here the legislation that belongs to us. They accept our amendment, they promote the amendment of the Law of the Juridical Counsel of the Union and they are also directed to the Government of Spain to recognize this maternal Mobbing, because really the labor harassment referred to in the Criminal Code does not always fit this idea of maternal Mobbing, which is much broader than labor harassment than the Criminal Code speaks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u93	For our own sake, that's all. We hope the amendment will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u95	Good morning. Thank you, President. We are debating today an initiative that is more focused on discrimination related to maternity, but we also wanted to emphasize that, obviously, and as already mentioned, this is one more example of all the inequalities that women suffer. That is why we understand that, whenever we talk about any question of equality, we must refer to the structural causes that they do and allow these situations to take place. I am not going to repeat the arguments made by the speakers of the other parliamentary groups about the data that obviously check this tremendously unfair situation, which we all know, because I think it is more important to focus on the proposals that we believe we should do to solve this situation. Just in this sense, we make an amendment because we understand that the solution to the problem should be otherwise guided by the following questions. First of all, because we understand that we should expand the framework, as I said, not only focus on the discrimination that women suffer from issues related to maternity. This does not, of course, remove that we think this issue is important to itself, but we understand that it is best always to have a broader and cross-sectional perspective and to talk about all these causes that are related, because often these discriminations can also be given to, for example, the caregivers of older relatives. Maybe we don't have to wait so long that in the job interviews, besides wondering if we have a partner and if we think about being a mother, they ask us about the health of our parents, mothers or even our mother-in-laws. I think that we have to expand this framework, because we are actually at this point because we still understand that women are the ones that most of us continue to take care of. And on the other hand, I also wanted to make it clear that we are not against what we are considering, but we do not seem to have to act solely on the final part of the problem and focus on criminal actions. We also amend because it seems a bit ambiguous to us, which we understand should be more concrete, but, above all, as I said, because we understand that we must frame all these issues in a wider range of measures. We've reached agreements in this sense on many occasions, but we often see that what they put on their own papers, their own legislation, then it doesn't correspond to reality. That's why we understand that we have to focus on the mandatory elements that also exist and do above all what they do, to be more comprehensive with the controls of equality plans, protocols, etc., and with all these issues. I'm not going to extend much more to the measures we propose, because I understood that we have to talk about two topics that I think are very related and that it may not seem that they are justly linked to this subject, but that in our opinion they are. And explain. On the one hand, I think we should also remember the work reforms, because this is also one of the reasons why it makes it cheaper for companies to fire workers, for example they get pregnant. As has been noted, it is obvious that during pregnancy there are some issues that only affect women on a biological issue, but I also wanted to point out that these casualties are generally smaller, they are shorter. There are a lot of women, as we know, who continue to work completely normally or adapt the job until it comes out of account. In relation to casualties or permits given after birth, which, as I said, we understand that this is the main reason that many companies exercise this type of discrimination because they are mothers. It's understood that women, after giving birth, we're going to have these months of paternity and maternity leave. And so in this sense we understand that we cannot act alone, as I say, on this last link of the chain, which we also understand is also necessary. But it's also important for companies to understand that maternity does not penalize us in any case. We are women, as I said, and those casualties, those pre-birth biological issues, which are minor, there are many women who work with total normality during pregnancy, however, we know that maternity and paternity permits are not equal right now. And from there this proposal to match, that they be 100% paid and that they are not transferable, so companies understand that hiring a woman or hiring a man will be indifferent, because, as I say, in pregnancy — and all companies know it — is very easy to adapt the job to the pregnant woman. What happens is they know that after a few months, parents can re-enter the labour market right away and women, however, we're going to have those months of permission. I didn't want to forget before we finished the term we heard this March 8th. Women gave us a clear mandate: we want clearly feminist public policies. And, in this sense, I wanted to launch a message that I also launched in the Committee on Last Equality, which is: for our part, we hold hand, we will make every effort and effort to conquer a truly feminist pact in Galicia, because we understand that it is what we are being asked for outside, a covenant that includes budgetary guarantees, that includes temporary guarantees for its application, and that is why I understand that this debate should have it — and surely we have it — in a broader, more peaceful and calm way, because we obviously have to put a solution to this specific issue, but we cannot forget that more general framework. Because, as I said, it probably doesn't lack as much for, especially in a country like ours, where the aging of the population is a clear entity, to ask whether our parents, our mothers in what conditions they are, whether we're going to look after them in the house, whether we're going to put them in a residence, whether we have a mother-in-law or a mother-in-law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u97	Of course — I'm going to finish — maternity is a matter that penalises. We can put measures to minimize this in a very clear way, but let's think of all these forms of discrimination. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Before you close this debate with Mrs Prado, allow me. Today is a satisfaction: we have the forum full of young people. We are accompanied by students of 1st ESO from the Institute of Marines, from Betanzos, as well as students from Ludy College, from Ferrol, who are students of 5th and 6th primary. [[The Crown]] We greet them, welcome to Parliament. Also to the teachers. Thank you. Now yes, Mrs. Prado, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Popular Parliamentary Group also welcomes these small visitors. On the amendments of the opposition groups, tell you, Mrs. Presas, that you say that the woman needs pre-judicial support and counseling. You're undervaluing the work of lawyers and legal advisers from the 83 women's information centres that are scattered throughout Galicia, because there's a very important advisory task being done too. It may not be as specialized as work, but they do have the possibility of deriving the woman from the resource she needs. I already know that the Galician Nationalist Block does not agree with the information centres to the woman, because since 1995, in which they were created by a Government of the People's Party, they were only at risk of extinction with the Bipartisan Government, which was the only one who wanted to close the ICDs, putting a parallel network to place their bonds, and I don't say so, as I said to the IGC, and the IGC is not suspicious of being precisely the People's Party. Therefore, indeed, there is a network scattered throughout Galicia of counseling and support for women who suffer discrimination and harassment, because the CIS are not only for gender-based violence, Mrs. Presas: the CIS are for far more than to deal with victims of gender-based violence. And you should know. If you don't know, I recommend that you talk to them and explain your work from day to day. You say our initiative must be wider. It's just that, you see, with the amendment you tabled suppressing our initiative, because it's a substitution amendment and, if I accept the amendment of the Nationalist Block in Wales, we're preventing that legal reform that we're proposing from taking place. Yes, Mrs. Presas, read your amendment carefully, because your amendment is the only one asking for that, for crimes of discrimination because of the exercise of the rights of conciliation and then intervene immediately in the case of harassment and psychoterrorism. Attention! Because there is no incendiary terrorism, but there is psychoterrorism. It's a word... [[Murmurs.]] Thank you, Mr. President, for... of course, they're kidnapping my parliamentary action. [[Applause]] I say, ladies and gentlemen, that you intend to have the Board take part in a process that is judicialized and in which the Labour Inspectorate has already intervened, but it came out of this matter when the judge intervened. And logically, when a question is judicialized, obviously the Galician Board cannot intervene, nor the Labour Inspectorate, as you did in the beginning, that you well know, that in the beginning it was the Labour Inspectorate. The Socialist Party tells you that, Mrs Vilán, you are asking to equate parental and maternity leave, but this group has already tabled amendments to the opposition's initiatives by asking for such an equalization and you have rejected them. It's just that you guys come here now saying that we accept questions that you systematically refused. Now Mrs. Quinteiro has come to speak of consensus, of covenant. Madam Quinteiro, yesterday we even voted for a motion by En Marea that had many points on which we were in favour — at least six points — and you didn't even let us vote for points. But do you talk to me about consensus if you're not even able to let us vote on points an initiative on which we agree on some points? Is that who you're trying to fool? [[Applause]] I won't do that today, because whenever I've come here I said that we must stop using equality as a political daring weapon; you use it constantly, I won't do it. I have points of your amendments that I agree with and will accept us, I will not do as you do, which won't even let us vote on the points we're in favour of. I ask them once again to take responsibility for equality and to let us at least reach agreements on what we agree on; in which we do not agree, we will debate, we will talk, we will try to bring up positions, but at least on what we agree I ask them for responsibility and at least let this House reach agreements unanimously on equality, at least on what we agree on. And we... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u100	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u101	... yes, Mr President, I will only say what we agree with—if it seems good to you, we propose a transaction that would be our initiative and how it adds point 2 of the Socialist Party's amendment on maternal mobility, which we consider important, even though it is being negotiated in Madrid with social agents. And we would also accept as a further point, point 2 of En Marea's amendment, which says, "Guarantee and ensure the defence of victims' rights, seeking full assistance with psychological counseling and assistance in the courts until the completion of the proceedings, as well as labour, criminal and procedural counseling of victims of violence against women, making all economic and human means available to women and their children, and helping to eradicate and eradicate violence against women."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u103	This is a pact, this is a consensus. You make it easier for us to reach agreement on equality, to stop talking about things that do not happen later when an agreement is proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group and come to agreements that allow equality agreements to exist in the House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u104	Your time is up, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u105	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u106	Thank you. Mrs. Prado, I've got it right. You propose a transaction, and point 2 of the PSOE amendment accepts it as an addition, and also accepts as an addition point 2 of En Marea. From the block, nothing? [[Assentment.]] Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the effective equality of women and men in the general administration and in the autonomous public sector, in businesses and in employment, as well as the demands to be made by the central government in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u107	There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u108	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u109	Yes, thank you President. Good morning to all of you. In equality, as in sport, the more you practice, the more agility you get and the better you feel one. Socialists know enough about training in equality and even we have reached goals that have been very important to us, but we believe so much in equality and we have it so embedded in our day-to-day we want to continue to practice it and mark new goals. That is why today we are again bringing an initiative that talks about measures to achieve effective equality between men and women and which is still necessary until we take the necessary steps. But what's enough? Because until recently the speech of the People's Party was self-comprehensive and that everything in equality policies was doing well. And only after March 8th and all I've been suggesting on that day have we heard demonstrations like those of the Secretary General of Equality itself just a week ago, confirming that it's time to speed up the steps. It seems that she is prepared to improve her willingness to train much more. Well, let's take the floor, speed up the steps and team up, which is the wish I think has always shown the opposition. And to speed up and do it head-on, it's necessary to heat up beforehand and properly stretch the body, to have a discipline in the training; that is, to get the measures for equality to be put in place in all areas. And this proposal speaks of many of them, especially those directed at the workplace and the improvement of opportunities for women in access to and maintenance of work, as well as their promotion of work. In this initiative, we focus first on maternity and maternity leave, and it's not casual. We firmly believe from the Socialist Group that the normalization of equality in access to work and the presence of women in positions of leadership and representativeness of companies has much to do with what social and labor most sanctiones them, such as maternal casualties, because still some women are asked in work interviews, violating the Law of Equality and their right to privacy, such as if they have intentions to be mothers, if they consider themselves able to lead a group in which they are all male or if they are trained to share work and family life. These kind of questions are not at all a concern when it comes to a man. And, you see, this kind of discriminatory treatment, and of course, illegal treatment of women, has even a comparative sport that can be very graphic to them. Do you know any business or business cases you're worried about if a man you're going to hire plays football with friends in your leisure time or running? Do you know how many men, because they practice sports many times for the first time at the age of 40 -- and I'm sure someone feels portrayed -- have meniscus injuries, Achilles tendon rupture, ligaments, suffering temporary disabilities that in some pathologies can be months? I'm sure they know them, and I'm sure there's a friend in their head. The difference between the lower one who is injured in his time of leisure by the practice of a sport and that of the woman who has a low motherhood is that the first one is considered by the employer or entrepreneur as a farm for the injured, while the lower one lives as a farm for the employer or the employer. These kinds of thoughts are the ones that are socially normalized. And understand me well, we see that both things must neither be sanctioned nor avoided, because neither sports nor birth promotion are a fairytale, as neither should be understood, assimilated, nor exclusively fostered by either of the sexes. That is why today we have put forward in this proposal not by law the necessary actions to achieve, within the competence of this government, the necessary equalization in the duration of maternity and paternity permits of public staff serving the 20-week autonomous administration, irrespective of their gender, by remunerating them to 100 per cent and without making them transferable between the two members of the couple. But I understand that the rest of the Greeks and the Greeks are no less important, and we also call on the State to immediately activate this equivalence and intransferability of the permissions of both parents. This, of course, would be the extent to which it would help to balance equality in access to work for men and women, as well as to encourage from the very first moment on co-responsibility in children. And in order for this to be feasible, we insist on the urgency of its start-up. Of course, it is also necessary to make an acknowledgement of the Italian business context that allows us to know in detail the degree of compliance with the Organic Law 3/2007 for the effective equality of women and men, especially in those companies and public participation entities, that are subject to the obligations set out in Articles 45 and 75. In this sense, it is essential to produce a report which reflects not only the comment, but also to know whether equality plans are being implemented in companies and in what number, as well as, if they are not vigilant, to know at least whether negotiations have been initiated on collective agreements that contemplate the elaboration of these plans. The equality plan for public administration and dependent bodies, which is no longer an emergency, is an emergency, because it's for a year that we demand this same thing in this House. I fully remember the discussion with the spokesperson for the People's Party, very concerned not to approve the issuance of the report that was requested on the degree of compliance of the Greek Administration in the matter of equality and the implementation of its own Equality Plan. Something I didn't understand much in his day because it was clear that this report was going to be very brief; it would be a blank sheet with a single title: there was no plan. The truth is, I do understand it today, Mrs. Míguez, because you knew then that that situation would not change even a year later, because, indeed, it still had to start. Not to issue this report would give you the opportunity not to leave a trace of the wish shown up to now and of the inevitable public recognition of its inaction. Today the president of the Socialist Party was talking about fraud. You, in fact, offered me a six-month deadline for your start-up. Trolleys, trolleys, Mrs. Míguez, because not only is it clear to us today that this Management Equality Plan will not be for this session, but you, moreover, as proposed in your amendment, intend to postpone it by the end of the year. To prevent you from falling into further trumps, I invite you to implement the deadline, before the end of the year, in your compromise proposal, whatever it is, but for the presentation of that plan, because I understand that you have already contracted and negotiated your delivery for a specific date. If they are committed to realising that deadline, I am committed to considering the amendment of our proposal at this point. So get some credibility back. From the Socialist Group we began to suspect, in fact, that what Mrs. López Abella said, to speed up the steps, perhaps it had more to do with the rhythms of the Holy Week steps, and much less with the acceleration that someone prints when they realize it's getting late somewhere. And that's why we insist on the practice of equality, not only on March 8th or 25th, but every day of the year, because women need to change the turns into many issues and do it as quickly as possible, as is access to jobs where women's presence is neither present nor encouraged. We understand that this government has to make a special effort to push this aspect, especially in emerging jobs of the new production model. We want women programmers, entrepreneurs, experts in the Front-end, in the Back-end, in Big Data... and ultimately involved in little feminized careers, such as technology, something that has to develop since very young. For this reason, in the proposals of this proposal we include those which are already envisaged in the Covenant against Gender Violence, with particular emphasis on measures 3 and 183, which refer to education. And although these refer to the prevention and detection of sexual violence, focusing on affective-sexual education at all levels of education, their adoption at school will undoubtedly contribute to the dismantling of stereotyped roles of children. And if this is done since childhood, it will be much easier for a child to feel more identified with other roles and as a child can imagine in other roles too. Once again, the importance of training is not only something that should apply to politicians, but to society as a whole, and from a very small point of view. Today I ask the Group of the People's Party to favor as a group of governments that Galicia becomes in that ideal place to practice equality, and for that, you have to demand your team's maximum effort and that they print faster on the deadlines for achieving the goals. To this end, I hope that both you and the rest of the opposition groups will consider the support of this non-law proposal and the measures envisaged here. You rule, so I recommend you practice in person, to be equal, and without rest, without falling into the doping, like what happened in the Madrid master. And if they suffer from handcuffs — which are probably, don't worry — they only last for a while and the way they disappear is to keep warm and practice. When they get used to the body, you'll see that equality is healthy, even for you. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. We went to the intervention of the rest of the groups. The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor to Mrs García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u111	Good morning. Do you think the recommendations of the Socialist Party, PSOE on employment are necessary? Look, Mrs. Pierres, I'm going to remind you of the goals you've reached in this country. Spain has never had as many stops as when you ruled. We had the highest unemployment figure in Spain's history, but, by chance, in the autonomous communities where you are ruling, which are Extreme and Andalusia, they have the top ten in unemployment data: 23% above the average unemployment rate. You destroyed jobs; you destroyed them as fast as the People's Party created it. But to go to the subject that brings us here today, we will, at any rate, give our position with regard to your proposal. The Government of Galicia once again shows its commitment to equality with the impetus of the 2017-2020 Women's Employment Plan. It's been this plan on the table for a year, it's in operation, and it's got a budget of a million euros. Women's unemployment data are falling free in our autonomous community. From March 2017 to March 2018 I already told them yesterday that more than 11,400 jobs were created, but not just that, but that there is a very important data. Well they know that the trend was that unemployment had a woman's face, because this trend is changing, and in March there are 1,623 women working against 1,481 men. They've won jobs, as you can see, more women than men in Galicia. So the summary is very clear: in Galicia jobs are created, quality jobs are created and female jobs are created. The bet is clear and this year the VII Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities Between Men and Women has been approved. It is a document in force, and in its chapter II, in its strategy 3, it reflects the commitment in employment and innovation, with very clear objectives: to eradicate horizontal and vertical segregation, training, increasing presence in certain areas, especially technology and innovation in the female sphere, the incorporation into collective bargaining of measures of corporate social responsibility, the promotion of employment, self-employment and female entrepreneurship, of course, the development of an equality plan for the Greek Public Administration and, finally, the Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan; a document that we already have above the table. As you know, this plan of co-responsibility and conciliation not only wants to remain in the regulation of women's labour rights, but it wants to go much further, it wants to be a great social pact, a great social pact with co-responsibility between men and women, with co-responsibility also within social agents and, of course, among all members of the intergenerational sphere. There will be this first equality plan, as announced by the President of the Galician Union, this year 2018 for the entire Government of Galicia and, of course, for all public bodies in our autonomous community. With regard to the Ministry of Employment, as you know, the minister himself announced that there will be a reform in the Staff Regulations and that there will be a reform in the Equality Act. It has the document, with 24 measures, in which both trade unions and employers are working to eliminate this pay gap and to give reply and transfer of the agreement to the Minister, the Government of Spain and, of course, to the Congress of Deputies. In order to finish, with regard to the State Pact, I would like to refer to the commitment, in the Budget Project of 2018, to the general budget of the State, which reflects the heading of EUR 80 million for the state domain, EUR 100 million for the autonomous communities and EUR 20 million for local policies. I, Mrs. Pierres, just to finish, I want to tell you that I believe in employment, you, the Socialist Party, us, the People's Party, in employment, not a single lesson. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs. García Míguez. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u113	The difference between incendiary terrorism and labour psychoterrorism is that one has already denied the Prosecutor's Office and the other has reports of the Labour Inspectorate and judgements that believe it. [[Applause]] I'm not going to teach equality lessons, that's something that you like to do to the People's Party, but rather a recommendation: I would recommend to the Members of the People's Party that they have a little more sensitivity when talking about the case of a person who has been repeatedly harassed and even physically assaulted since 2009 by a company that is still hired by the Galician Union, that does not exercise its powers to seek the way of termination of the contract. At least a little sensitivity. Action, it's clear they're not prepared to do anything, but a little sensitivity was fine. With regard to the proposal presented today by the Galician Socialist Party Group, it has several demands, both for the Union and for the State, that we can basically divide into two broad lines of action: one band, compliance and accountability of law enforcement, and the other side, all that has to do with the improvement of maternity and paternity permits. I would like, first of all, to insist on a reflection that we have already moved into this House, and it is that this principle of real equality between men and women is collected in a legal framework which is ambitious and which, no doubt, has many potentials, but today we find ourselves infringed, incomplete and underdeveloped. That's why this legal framework is important, where we have reached consensus also in the German field, and, no doubt, it must be a cause for pride for us. Of course, that lack of development must be a challenge to overcome; even more so when there was, when we talked about equality, an important negative impact on the impact of the socio-economic crisis and the neo-liberal agenda of the People's Party. In any case, I would also like to stress that in this matter we think there is, moreover, a relaxation that is conscious, that is premeditated, both by this disregard of the roles of the Galician Union and the Spanish State. It is that the obligation of the public authorities to ensure compliance and the effectiveness of this principle is relaxed and there is no real effort to remove all obstacles that in practice prevent equal rights both in the labour, social or economic sphere. That is why we agree with the questions presented by the Socialist Party, and with particular attention to the ongoing follow-up and evaluation of that legal framework, to see if it is met, if it is not met and what effectiveness it is having. Because we have outstanding examples of this neglect, for example, that the People's Party comes here to assume that it will take almost a decade to adopt an equality plan to which the law obliges. Man!, I think they should cut themselves a little; at least, they should blush. Or, for example, that workers at the Welfare and Equality Consortium should be winning the sentence of their theoretical rights of employment and family reconciliation, which are not being respected. That is why we support the points to implement and develop legislation on equality. I would now like to refer also specifically to the issue of permits. Here the analysis we have made since BNG is that in the Spanish state there is a normative framework which is very limited in those rights and which deserves radical reform. Besides, with the paternity license, if we think of it in the perspective of recent creation, we understand that, having a duration that makes it more symbolic than real, not being approved to the mother, you're not really having an impact on equality. We think that the legislation on these conciliation rights is more scarce and that these uses continue to have a gap in their exercise as well. That's why we bet and bet on the line that follows the Platform for equal and intransferable birth and adoption permits. Already on its day, in 2012, with other political groups, we present a bill at Congress. For us that's the line: match, individualize, and intransferability as well. We are also supporters — we insist — that we should go to a horizon where 100 percent is paid, so that there is also no sex bias, a class bias. And finally, as we are today in propaganda mode of the State budgets by the People's Party, I would like to make a point and a new complaint to that fraud pact. It's a scam because they first promised on December 27, last year that in three months these 200 million would be available, whether or not there were budgets. We've seen that's not true. But you are now reading the draft draft budget. So what is said is that 20 million and one hundred and peak of the autonomous communities — 20 of the local entities and one hundred and peak of the autonomous communities —...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u114	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u115	...what local communities and entities are going to do is to divert them from their funding system, which is a real falsehood. What would really have to be would be a great increase, directly and in a separate and clear manner by the Spanish State itself, if really...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u117	...if you want to engage in equality; if you'd rather continue to increase the defence and the Royal House budgets, then no, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. The Parliamentary Group of En Marea has the floor to Mrs Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u119	Thank you, President. Good day again. We, of course, want to reach agreements, the problem is that many times, as we have always expressed, we want the agreements to have a real execution. Often what puts the paper on then doesn't match. You know perfectly well what our only difference was when we worked on contributions to the State Covenant. You know perfectly well... You know, you love it, you're very funny today, Paula. I can be funny too, but I prefer to focus on really important issues, because, really, if we want to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u120	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u121	Okay, I'll go on. As I said, we want to reach agreements, but we want there to be agreements with real budgetary commitment. That's why, as I said, I've got the hand to work on a Greek pact that's really feminist — me and all my companions and friends — and so we'll work. And you know perfectly well that where we're going to have the most debate is when we get to the question of what budgets. Consents do not only apply to us as papers, as PNLs approved here or even as legislation. We want everything that's collected on the papers then to be applied effectively. And already focusing on the non-law proposition, I wanted to make a couple of appreciations. Taking advantage of the State Pact and, as I say, very much in connection with the work we will be working on in the coming months, for us the State Pact is a totally insufficient pact, as we have stated on its day, because we understand that there are no such guarantees. Now, with the passing of time, time is giving us reason that there were no such guarantees to apply the measures in a time frame... let's say, soon enough, and that there were no such guarantees to place sufficient economic resources. We understand that he also left out many forms of violence, some that even in our country we have recognized and advanced and that we have contributed, but that later they were also left out of that final document. Speaking of other proposals put forward at the initiative, I would like to point out again that it seems particularly important to us that it speaks of the equalization of maternity and paternity permits — and I have already commented on that in my previous speech. The situation is totally unfair and, of course, the amendment of the People's Party is a step forward — we do not say it is a step forward — but it is a totally insufficient advance; it is very small and not enough. We understand that our ultimate goal must be that of full equivalence, and for that work we can put deadlines, we can set time. As I say, in our bill we don't make a change from day to day. We understand and do so justly so that budgetary reasons do not prevent this proposal from being approved. But it doesn't make any sense that we put a lot of conciliation measures on the table, that we put the Conciliation Plan on the table, that we talk about co-responsibility, when then we have these inconsistencies that really make women continue to take care of. Or yesterday's motion too. We understood that it was a complete motion, consistent as a whole, so we did not reach an agreement, because we understood that in that motion the points drawn from context, a point in the abstract that they could approve, does not really change the fundamental. We understand that we have to put together measures, measures that really work to end the roles of gender, because, as I say, there are often absolute inconsistencies between what is said and what is done. The measures we need to comply with the equality plans are not being put in place, the legislation itself has already been adopted. We need to assess it in a much more rigorous way that we are failing, and we need to do so, of course, political will and, as we repeat all this time, we need budgets. And an example, as I said, we see it in the State Covenant. What did you do to us? It's been many months of work, there's a lot of action in that state pact that we assume, which seems to us progressive measures, which help to fight against macho violence, but then, in practice, we see how the months go by and there's no budget, there's no such efficiency to put in place all that that the state pact collects. We must reach agreements in theory, but above all we must reach agreements in the effective implementation of that which we agree on. We tend our hands to consensus, but we want a consensus that is real. We have a clear mandate, as I said. On 8 March he gave us a clear mandate and we have to listen. We understand that there is a change of attitude in the People's Party, because we understand that it is only necessary to see the statements that were made prior to the strike on 8 March and the statements that are made later. And we rejoice because, obviously, a government the least you have to do is listen to the number of women who went out into the street this March 8th. As I say, many times we meet with that absolute inconsistency. We want to work for this non-law proposal to be approved, for example, but above all, so that within a year we can make that assessment of what measures have been taken in front of this non-law proposal, as we have discussed recently. We don't need consensus for consensus, we want measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u122	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u123	...that they really move forward. The Conciliation Plan cannot remain in a role as is the coordination protocol. A year has passed, and we are talking about this in the Equality Commission. Is that coordination protocol in which it is implemented? What effective coordination was taken forward? I've got to go finish. Nothing more and thank you very much. But, of course, I'm going back to that: listen and, above all, let the measures we then approve have that correlation in the real application with sufficient budgets.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u124	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. The author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Pierres López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u125	Thank you, President. Let me first thank the support of the groups of the BNG and En Marea, as well as the provision, if conditional, of the Group of the People's Party to at least amend and try to reach agreement. As I told you earlier, Mrs. Míguez, I am ready to deal with certain transactions at those points where we agree, but not to disregard any of our measures. And yet I would like to comment on the issue of more time-concending the date for the presentation of the Equality Plan; a plan that, according to the 2015 decree, had to be approved last year, thus failing the legal mandate. Concrete — I repeat — more and I commit myself to accepting it; that is, within a common text with the rest of the measures that, in any case, we can compromise. And I'd like to briefly comment on a couple more things. Yesterday we were talking about conciliation and co-responsibility and how a 100-sheet plan aims to hide and wrap up in a nice package everything you're about to do, but it doesn't have an extraordinary budget to support it. We were also talking about trust yesterday and how important it is to encourage it. Tell me how this group is going to keep its trust in a party that, before a state pact for gender violence, had literally agreed: "The general state budgets will, by way of transfer to the municipalities, set an annual increase of 20 million euros during the next five exercises." And it was also committed to the fact that the general budgets of the State would target autonomous communities an annual increase of EUR 100 million over the next five years for the development or expansion of the measures taken in this pact. The reality is that this year is worth investing the first 200 million, of which, in the end, only 80 have been registered in the state's general budgets, leaving the other 120 to be handled by territorial administrations; therefore, in the air. Tell us how we can trust the word if we can't even trust consensual and signed agreements. Beyond today's initiative, for my part, you are told that this parliamentary group registered yesterday an initiative urging the Galician Union to ask the Government of Spain to request that in the general budgets of the State, for the new or enlarged powers reserved for autonomous communities and for the municipalities, if it is intended, via transfer, an annual increase of EUR 20 million for the municipalities and EUR 100 million for the autonomous communities. Because I think you'll agree with me that the pacts are to fulfill them and not to brag about them and then abandon them to their own fate. To delay these 120 million by diverting their management to territorial administrations is to have understood nothing of the urgency and urgency of the implementation of this pact. It is an insult to the intelligence of the rest of the opposition groups in the Congress of the State and, of course, the women of this country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u126	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. [[The proposal for a non-law of the G.P. de En Marea with document number 28005 was withdrawn by this parliamentary group by document number 29060.]] Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union to demand from the Government of the State the amendment of the Criminal Code and the derogation of the citizenship security law to prevent the current interpretation of hate crimes and heightening terrorism
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u127	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u128	Mr Bará Torres has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u129	Do you like the flag, Mrs. Prado? Or does it seem to you that incites hatred? [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u130	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u131	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u132	Thank you, President. It seems that the representatives of the People's Party did not make a master of democracy, they didn't even do the povular of democracy. This is an ABC issue of democracy, of respect, of pluralism. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] This is pluralism and ABC of democracy, and you don't seem to understand anything about it. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, this is also ABC of democracy. Burning this portrait is also ABC of democracy. (Murmurs.) Breaking this portrait is also ABC of democracy, and you don't want to understand it. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows two photographs of King Philip VI.]] [[Mr. Bará Torres breaks the two portraits of the king before displayed.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They don't want to understand! [[Applause]] This is ABC of democracy. I can't burn it because we're in a closed room, but I would, not because I believe these acts must be done, but because I think that we must respect and allow these acts of discrepancy, as the European Court of Human Rights says, in addition, that you don't know. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're out of Europe, you're getting out of Europe every day, because in the Spanish State's legislation and the Criminal Code to burn a portrait of the king is a hate crime, as they did when two Catalan boys were sentenced to fifteen months in prison for burning a portrait of the king. And it turns out that ten years later he had to come to the European Court of Human Rights with a sentence that tells them that this is freedom of expression. It's freedom of expression! [[Applause]] We're Europeans; you're not! You're not up to a consolidated democracy. [[Applause]] They're not up to normal democracy. [[Murmurs.]] They're giving them legal beatings every day in Europe and they don't want to know... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u133	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u134	They don't want to know!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u135	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u136	Look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u137	Well, there you go! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u138	I'm going to teach us a little bit in democracy, because they haven't just found out. Look at what the European Court of Human Rights — a European Court of Human Rights, which is obliged to comply with the Spanish State — says: "Burning the flag was not a personal attack against the king of Spain to despise and vilipendar, but rather the symbolic expression of rejection and political criticism". "Rejection and political criticism," said the European Court of Human Rights, not the BNG. BNG agrees with this sentence as well. That sentence also says that the Spanish State has violated the European Convention on Human Rights. He says that the burning of photos falls within the scope of political criticism or dissent and corresponds to the expression of rejection of the monarchy as an institution. It's so clear! Look, the European Court of Human Rights denies that burning can incite hatred, and recalls that this kind of crime protects discriminated minorities. And, as I know, the monarchy is a minority, indeed; it is a very minority minority, but it is not discriminated against. She's not discriminated against! [[Applause]] It's a privileged minority that, in any case, who has to protect itself, because, what we're seeing, better protect themselves, because they have the enemy in the house. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Spanish monarchy has the enemy in the house. Look, that sentence should be printed, it should be studied, of course, in the faculties of right, in schools and also in parliaments, because it says that linking the burning of flags with the speech of hatred and violence would be detrimental to pluralism, tolerance and spirit, without which there is no democratic society. It cannot be said more clearly: without pluralism there is no democracy. They don't understand it. It's the ABC of democracy, and you don't understand it. And, look, this pin I'm wearing here also has to do with the ABC of democracy. [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a pin that wears on the top of his jacket.]] This pin is the symbol... it's a red star and a micro—see what massive creation weapons: a red star and a micro!—which is the symbol of the La Insurgency group; a musical group of boys and girls who have a support group that uses this pin as a symbol of identification and support for the group and also of fund-raising. A group of rapists who were sentenced by the National Audience on December 4, 2017; a conviction for heightening terrorism in the lyrics of their songs. Each of the twelve members of the group has been convicted... well, not all members have been convicted, only those of Spanish nationality, because in Colombia there is no such crime or if this crime is pursued. They're also more advanced in democracy in Colombia, so you see, than here. They were sentenced to two years and one day in prison and 4,800 euros in fines, with a conviction that also goes against the European directive on the heightening of terrorism and the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, which speaks of the need for a specific risk, which cannot be mentioned as an abstract risk of incitement to terrorism. [[Murmurs.]] That's right, the European Court of Human Rights. And he also says there has to be a terrorist activity of those groups or groups that are exalted or exalted by those lyrics of songs. Of course, this is not happening here, as the European Court has also believed. Look, the rap is clear that it's a provocative musical style, it's an irreverent musical style, it's an unsubmitted musical style. They're not church songs, which I suppose you like the most; they're not church songs. It's an aggressive, critical, bitey musical style. That's the essence of rap; otherwise it wouldn't be. You guys, what do you want, end the rap? Look, we can like them more or less, we can like them more or less. [[Laughter]] Of course, I don't share... [[Applause]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u139	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u140	Yes, I can see that you like my intervention very much. [[Murmurs.]] I don't share those letters or that style. I know that you — I suppose Mr Pazos — will go there; you will read here the words of praise, of the GRAPO... but the judgment and jurisprudence clearly say that there has to be a specific risk, a concrete threat and a specific terrorist activity, and here there is no terrorist activity in order to criminalize this crime. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, of course, all this in the form of a broader escalation, a repressive and regressive process, a delusional, firing and austere escalation in which the Spanish State is prosecuting leaders and political charges; with the invention, in addition, of a supposed violence that no one sees in Europe, with the pursuit of political charges, of public charges, of police officers, of groups that cut roads... All of this is causing a genuine international ridicule of the Spanish State, which is not only receiving judgments contrary to the European Court of Human Rights, precautionary measures of the UN Human Rights Committee, in the case of Mr. Jordi Sánchez, for example, to which they do not leave or attend a plenary session of Parliament... but where that is seen? Why not allow you to attend a plenary session of Parliament? [[Murmurs.]] Look, you and we agree on one thing: Spain is a state of emergency, a state of repression of fundamental rights and freedoms, an authoritarian state in which there is no separation of democratic powers or guarantees. [[Applause]] I'm the ridiculous, the shame and the despicableness in the world, and they're telling them every day. They're telling you in Switzerland, Belgium, Germany, the United Kingdom; in your beloved Germany too. Although it is not in their beloved Germany, it is in the state of Schleswig-Holstein—or as it is called—that, by the way, Germany or the United Kingdom have a level of decentralization of justice that we don't even dream of having here, because there are the courts of the states that solve these issues. [[Laughter]] You set up a castle of nymphs that is mounted on the alleged violence of the Catalan rebellion that was fulminated by this German court. In short, they're trying to use the Criminal Code and the Mordaza Law to frighten, to scare, to subject, to paralyze, to try to get that. And they're also doing it by placing fines on boys for exhibiting this flag in a football stadium. This flag is not an instrument of hatred or violence. [[Mr. Bará Torres takes and displays the flag displayed in the gallery.]] This flag is, and for her she fought...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u141	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u142	Don't change, gentlemen of the People's Party, that this flag is a flag of peace, it's a flag of love for this country and this land. And by this flag they killed Ánxel Casal, by this flag they killed Alexandre Bóveda, by this flag they killed Victor Casas. [[Strong murmurers.]] Therefore, respect for this flag, which is a democratic flag, is a legal flag; it is not the official flag, but it is a legal flag and therefore I have the right to display it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u143	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u144	So you are in an answer that is an authoritarian response, a centralist and repressive response against fundamental rights and freedoms. [[Murmurs.]] You want a silent people, a submissive people, a tamed and domesticized society, and you won't get it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u146	No, they won't. That's why we're asking for this deal, which is, besides...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u147	Mr Bará, stop, please. He has another turn after the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u148	...—ending, yes— an agreement that is in perfect harmony with the judgments, the guidelines, the directives and the jurisprudence of the European courts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u149	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u150	So they're Europeans, they're Democrats...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u151	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u153	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] No, no, take it away, and then do whatever you want with it, but there you can't leave it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Vilán Lorenzo. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u154	Thank you, President. I'm going to use, perhaps, some expression that's not welcome in this House, but I'm going to read literally. Letters of Insurgency: "To those of the Athletic Front, three shots of shotgun. I'm not going through the branches, I'm not metaphorical: I'm hammering oligarchs in my own. Analyze this and tell me: terrorist, who? The ball dance took place. If you don't sit on the side of the village, I'll go get you. Hey, judge, we're going to get to her anyway, although we have to walk over dead anti-fascist heads." Judgments of various courts, National Court and Supreme Court. "Fifty-three murders for male violence in what goes on year, few seem to me to be that of loose whores. And 2015 will end with 56 murders. It's not a good brand, but he did what he could. Let's see if in 2016 we doubled that figure. Patricia was a feminist and threw herself into the river because women get wet on equality." There's no doubt that we live in an era of retrocession of freedoms. You are the greatest example, with your citizen security law of 2015, that we have said since the Socialist Party and reiterate that we are going to derogate. For what? [[Applause]] To derogate the sanctions against those people who go to demonstrations in front of Congress and the Senate, to derogate the sanctions imposed by using images of members of state forces and security bodies, to derogate those sanctions from the photographer journalists required by this graphic material, to prevent personal records in public places that literally leave people naked. But in the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that the division of powers must be scrupulously respected, which does not prevent it from being legitimate to criticize the work of the courts. Of course it's legitimate, we have to do it, I'd miss it more! But without forgetting that they are — and less so! — the only ones who process and the only ones who judge in a democracy. We've had another time when it wasn't, and many people from the ranks of the Socialist Party were justly murdered by people who weren't members of any court. Above all, they are the only ones who interpret the norms, incitement to hatred and heightening of included terrorism; they are the ones who have all the elements of judgment and those who can value the proof live, from the abstract of the law to the concrete of the trial. [[Applause]] That's the wonder of criminal law. The laws that we make in this Parliament or in the General Courts must be abstract and with a vocation of generality, we believe, never concrete. They can't replace the interpretation that in a specific matter in a trial he makes a court on the basis of a basic principle that equates us and differences us all at the same time, which is the principle of equity, which is what is justly sought in each criminal trial. Another thing is that we understand whether or not the penalty for these crimes is very high: up to four years or up to three years in prison in both, in the crimes of incitement to hatred and heightening terrorism. They can be modified. Yes, we could do it, but not here, but in the General Courts; that can be debated, and it's in the hands of the legislator, but it's not our job to interpret them. We have another one, which is to make rules, not to interpret them. We cannot approve or ask for rules to prevent the courts from interpreting them, precisely because the courts are precisely to interpret them. Parliament is not going to resolve specific procedural matters for anyone, not even for the musicians, who have all our respect. The sentence of Insurgency is not yet firm, they can appeal to the Supreme Court and, in fact, they have made it. The crime of incitement to hate exists in the Criminal Code to protect people who need more protection, women who have received these attacks that 56 dead women are a number, a brand — which is still worse — and insufficient, and to see if the next year we're past it. There are two courts in Spain, in addition to the European Court of Human Rights, which sometimes, by the way, you and we both disagree with each other; we criticize, but they are not always right and do not always comply with their judgments. There are two other courts in Spain that follow the line that the BNG marks in its non-law proposal: Constitutional Court, judgement of the year 2016, the right to freedom of expression is not absolute — none is absolute, no right is absolute — and criminal limitation is always proportionate, as long as there is no risk to people, their rights and no incitement to hate. That's exactly what the European Court of Human Rights has to say. There are three recent Supreme Court rulings that have just created jurisprudence, of May 2017 two — one on day 5 and one on day 17 — and another on January 31, 2018, dictated by what we often call progressive magistrates, who were their rapporteurs, and rightly say what you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u156	...—if finished, President—by the BNG they ask, and it is only that they turn to repression in the interpretation of these judgments by the National Court. There is therefore a case-law of the Constitutional Court and there is a case-law of the Supreme Court which expressly cites the European Directive, and the European Court of Human Rights. So we believe that we have to keep this difference between the powers of the state, because if we don't, what we can do is do an initiative suggesting that we install exploding machines in each province...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u157	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u158	...of judgments, like those of Coca-Cola, we put in a coin and the judgments are given by a machine that has nothing to interpret. But that reminds us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u159	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u160	...—thanks, President—the other time. They accept our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u161	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Mrs Santos Queiruga has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u162	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have kept the words of Mrs Prado, who is not the first time that we have tried to kidnap her word in this House. And if it wasn't for the gravity of that kind of assertions and the surrealists who seem to us -- taking into account the decisions made by the People's Party both in the state and in Galicia, and let's not say in the state, when they have absolute majority, that they use with iron hand, not only to exercise their political activity, but also to legislate, in order to be able to make a series of actions which, as has already been explained, should be in the hands of the courts, we're not talking about anything new about what the People's Party of Mr. Rajoy did with its absolute majority of the previous legislation: citizen security law, "Law bites." Obviously, we are going to support this initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block because we are absolutely against these abusive and recessive measures without any kind of justification, in times of social convulsion that only try to silence what the People's Group cannot control with its absolute majority through the media, the media "disinformation", as we say, and that we cannot try to hide, because the sun cannot cover with a finger. We believe it's absolutely irresponsible, an unprecedented retreat and something totally unacceptable that, with an absolute majority or when it's being ruled, what the People's Party does is to stain anti-democratic or almost criminal any collective, citizen or person who tries to criticize the Government or who tries to give a different view of what's going on in our country. Since you rule, you don't accept any kind of criticism, you promote fear -- fear -- and then you make it into rules to execute that policy of fear. Any citizen protest tries to criminalize her, they try to disallow her, except for pensioners, who cannot cover them with criminals, so they have to claim that they are wrong, that they don't know why they manifest themselves, when they really know what it is, and the government's accounts aren't the people's accounts, and pensioners' bills, either. His iron hand is very scary, listening to them, many times, it is very scary, his legislation, his mortaza law and the citizen's security law are very scary. Its way of managing conflicts is very scary: Catalonia, as they managed Catalonia, panics; prisons for rapists, prisons for tweeters, for anyone who takes them against them, criminalization. Let's not remember Cassandra's case, in which fortunately the common sense came out, while the corrupt and corrupt people of the accused People's Party are protected, and yet no one can say anything at all when they are not even condemned for justice. Yesterday I heard a CIS assessment of the bad opinion of citizens and citizens of the economic situation — because lies are and do not correspond to reality — about the bad opinion of citizens and citizens in a way that crushes politicians and politics. We should think a lot of times about why when you start to accuse, scare and sow discord constantly citizens, in the end, have these ratings. And a commentator said it was the fault of the media and social media. That's why the People's Party is so interested in controlling social networks. It's the last thing they have left, that they start imprisoning people for putting certain messages or retweeting certain concentrations on social networks. Democracy, freedom of expression, right to assembly, right to association, we already know that it shocks you when you practice it, criticizing you, especially when you have the absolute overwhelming majority that you exercise with iron. And that's explained by the sociological frankness that inhabits its electoral bases and ideological bases, and that's why they have so much warmth and ambiguity to talk about franchise, Meirás' palace and all matters related to the regime. Some political practices, unfortunately, remind us too much of that regime that so much suffering has caused in our country, it has caused Galicia and so much fear gives us all, and every time we hear about certain leaders, it reminds us that we have to fight for them not to come back. Many citizens have the perception of being persecuted and persecuted, that we live in a pseudo-edited state. They meditate on why there is this citizen perception. They're afraid, and their tibiasity gives them evidence; tibiasity for some things, firmness and hand of iron for others who don't suit them. Police charges in Catalonia, their ultras insulting us and asking us almost to guillotine in Zaragoza when we organized a democratic and free act, arrests, fines... for that are the courts, as the other group told them. [[Murmurs.]] You can't try to supplant the courts by tactics and move forward with the excuse of the absolute majority. We also suffer from this, Manuela Carmena, who has suffered insults, threats and a series of constant statements and attacks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u163	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u164	...and Martiño Noriega. I mean, you don't allow yourself to be the only ones who suffer from these kinds of issues. Of course we defend the actions of the courts and the absolute condemnation of any kind of violence, of attack, and for that, that leads to the places where it has to be taken, because they won't give us ethical lessons. You must never use the absolute majority...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u165	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u166	...to cover democracy, that's what you use, and the media to attack freedom of expression, civil liberties and everything that's meant to change the regime, change the regime!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u167	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u168	Obviously, one cannot support those who don't believe in freedom. So we're going to support the BNG so we can defend democracy again, the regime of freedoms...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u170	...this state, and that no force is used to prevent freedom in democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr Pazos Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this interesting debate that brings us today the new James Dean of German nationalism, a rebel without cause. [[Laughter]] Look, I admit it took me a bit to know what the nature of the debate was. In principle, I thought it was a doctrinal debate. I said, let's discuss the theoretical limits of freedom of expression in relation to the right to honor and to hate crimes. BNG defends the absolute prevalence of freedom of expression over the rights of persons affected by the possible excesses involved in the exercise of that right. Could have been. Then I saw this news: "A councilwoman from the BNG who suspended in October the full of the motion of censure from Fene denounces threats." Threats for this poster: "The judge says so, Mrs. Aguilar jumped to the tower the legality. What will you do on April 6th? Will you decide again for all the phenomena? Painful threats to go to court, eh!, hard, but they were. And, of course, I say, this theoretical debate is overshadowed, not because of this. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago teaches a document.]] Then I looked at this other news: "Critic pain in the mayor of Ribadeo for not burning the seniera in the intruder." Because if you see that burning flags is good or bad, it depends on the flag. The previous year they burned the American, but the mayor said it's not the same thing to burn American flags than to burn the seniera. So, of course, I came to the conclusion that it must be a debate, which you proposed, on material rights. You understand that there must be a criterion, a biased use of law and justice to punish political discrepancy in one sense. I have to discard this, it is discarded, because there are numerous judgments related to hate crimes, right?, where homophobic conduct is condemned, hatred of Islam symbols, hatred of victims of macho violence, hate of ultra-rightness postures, hate of Catalans — there are also those convictions. And I said, man, if all of these exist, the BNG won't pose this rebat. So I came to the conclusion that the real debate before us today is the BNG, which is a debate on the quality of our democratic system. Of course, the debate is being debated to dissect it. I have to admit that I am surprised that this debate is a group that does not believe in democracy. You obviously don't believe in democracy; it's obvious, first, because you don't believe in power division. [[Laughter]] If you believe, they would not present today an LNP, which is intended to be the legislature, which is this House, because it imposes its opinion on the judiciary, which handed down a series of sentencing sentences for certain attitudes. You don't respect him. But I also said the Voicewoman — from the party now investigated in Valencia — that they respect. Home!, they respect as much as their Members went to a trial in Madrid to press the judges, asking for the acquittal of a criminal before the trial takes place — the case of Mr Emilio Cao, who is still without trial. Exactly the same as in the case of Insurgency. There's a first conviction that's pending appeal, as in his pending appeal, the Cassandra case, and he's finally acquitted. Let the courts work. But, of course, what's even less surprising is that you manipulate the data. I want to give you some today, Mr Bará. You are very concerned about the number of complaints against Spain at the European Court of Human Rights. And I said, man, see if it's gonna be true and you have to be worried. And I went to the official statistics. Look, complaints to Spain: 157. They may seem a lot, they may seem few. I think they're few if we compare them to 341 from Portugal, 997 from France or 2,382 from Italy. But I'm going to make a comparison with four countries that seem particularly close to me, those countries where the fugitives of justice have fled; those whom you call "exiles": United Kingdom -- remember, there is one of those fugitives who is in Scotland, indeed -- 545 convictions; Switzerland, where, among other things, Mrs. Gabriel, 182; Belgium, where Mr. Puigdemont was safe, 242; Germany, which gives you so much assurances, 321. If we measure democratic quality in these terms, Spain can be very proud. [[Applause]] Look, I understand that some of the House's groups are going through for a bad time, that this justifies almost everything, but I understand less these pairs that are made here with some pictures and some flags. Look, you came here today to take pictures. I invite you to scrape one more, as it's here; I invite you to scrape this one. This is really important that rache, because look, if you do this simple gesture, this, we, when you do this gesture, will know that on one side are the Democrats and on the other side are the terrorists. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a photograph.]] [[Mr. Pazos Couñago breaks the photograph.]] As long as you don't scratch this picture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u173	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u174	...we don't admit a single lesson this way. I'll leave you a copy of the photo here to see if you're the one today. I offer it to the president for Mr Bará's claim. Thank you very much, President. Finally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u175	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u176	Anyway, and already for Mrs. Santos, I want to thank you for the treatment you gave me today. I really, in respect of what you gave last week to your spokesman, I feel very well treated today, you didn't call me an inquisitor, though, let's say, you inquisitively our proceedings. I think this obsession with the Inquisition doesn't prove that neither Mr. Villares nor I are inquisitive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u178	...but if it shows a certain witch complex. I tell you the truth, I don't think it is, though it is true that some of the members of this House believe that these meats can give you superpowers. It's not a matter of witchcraft, it's a question of democratic quality. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a sheep.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. Mr Bará Torres has the floor on the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u180	I didn't bring the flag because I know it makes them very nervous, and I want them to be careful. [[Protests.]] Look, Mr. Paz said it was James Dean. I'm more of James Bond, especially when I was a character, because I'm from Pontevedra. [[Murmurs.]] You, following the cinematographic simile...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u181	Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u182	I'm from Pontevedra. [[Laughter]] Look, following the motion picture, you'd be the People's Party's Vic Danny. [[Laughter]] Well, you don't want to understand what we're talking about. From that point on, we are talking about respecting the European directive, respecting European jurisprudence and moving it to the Spanish Criminal Code. They are advanced, they are Europeans, and they bring the Criminal Code... by the way, as the Supreme Court itself is already doing in its last judgments, which speaks of one thing being to proclaim and even to shout and another thing is trying to get the message to incite others to commit terrorist crimes. Anyway, I guess they'll slowly adapt. Look, you're pushing on the photo of Otegi. It's his motive milk. Because I have to tell you that Mr. Otegi belongs to Bildu, which is a democratic organization of the so-called "Vasco National Liberation Movement." This is Mr. Aznar's sentence, I think, isn't it, the People's Party? So don't get so upset about it, because in his day Mr. Aznar devoted these honourable words to this political group. And, of course, the BNG talks, talks and takes pictures with democratic political groups and with political groups, of course, defending democracy, as defended by the BNG. They can accuse us of what they want. They've already accused us of everything, and because there's, nobody believes them, nobody believes them. Finally, what we are dealing with is that at the moment the main political problem that the Spanish State has is precisely the persecution and repression of fundamental rights and freedoms. The Spanish State does not give the level, it does not make the size at European level on these issues. He's not up to states, as I told him, normalized and consolidated from the point of view of his democratic essence. You're competing with Turkey to occupy the first ranking positions in the states that pursue and suppress fundamental rights. So what we are asking for here is something that is so simple — we are not going to accept the amendment of the Socialist Group — that Parliament supports the members of the La Insurgency musical group, condemned by the National Audience, because this condemnation goes against precisely this spirit of the European directive and also the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. And we have not seen here issuing judgments, which we have seen is adopting a political agreement for the Government of the State to amend the Criminal Code to bring it into line with the judgments, with European jurisprudence and with the European directive. And we also ask the Government of the State for the derogation from the citizen security law, known as the Mordaza Law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u183	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u184	We are called a lot of attention that at this point in the film — following the film-like — this law is not yet repealed, when there is a clear majority, theoretically, of political forces against it in the State Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u185	Sorry, Mr. Bará, what did you say, that you didn't accept the amendment, that I didn't understand? [[Assentment.]] Thank you. Let's move on to the next initiative. Non-legislative proposal of GGs. PP. Popular of Galicia, In Marea, Galician Socialists and Galego Nationalist Block, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the Manifesto for the flexibility of the obligation to disembark catches made by the European Union fleet, prepared by the Foundation Minimum Sustainable and Social Economic Performance
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u186	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. As a joint initiative of the four parliamentary groups, according to the precedent of the 20 February 2018 plenary session, the debate will consist of a single round per parliamentary group and for a maximum of five minutes each. Mrs Prado Cores has the floor to begin with, by the Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u187	Good morning. First of all, I would like to greet the students and students who are present with us and the representatives of the FREMSS Foundation, who have contacted the representatives of the political organizations represented here in the Greek Parliament, and have brought us to the request that we support the statement they were making. The result of this request is the initiative we are now going to defend and will have the support of all political groups. It is an initiative that calls for the European Union to make the measure of application of discards more flexible; a manifesto that concludes that, being realistic, we have to consider that the goal of zero discards, as a goal of zero food waste, as inconceivable, that is, less revenue discards, that binomial, less revenue discards, can become zero wastes, zero income. The manifesto calls for the support of civil society to, since the firm commitment of the fishing fleet they represent, with the progressive reduction of discards, call on the European Union to apply for the real and effective flexibility of the total landing obligation rule, generating a change that assumes the initial management of these circumstances. We're going to support BNG, even though we think it's not the goal we're looking for in BNG. We think it is a matter of minimums, and we support it because Galicia is the most relative country losing its share of the European Union in fisheries, resulting in others deciding our interests. The European Union, since the entry of the Spanish State — and with that of Galicia — has subjected our country to totally discriminatory, unjust, and unjust Leonine conditions. The Greek fleet is subject to three criteria established by the European Union: to the theoretical protection of the resource — and this means that it has to expel our fleet, for example, of the twelve miles of Ireland —; to the historical rights — a criterion that has been applied in a completely discriminatory way and which benefits other countries such as France, Germany, Denmark or Belgium; or to the principle of relative stability, which has made it possible to distribute arbitrary quotas and does not take any account of reality. Criteria that are tremendously prejudicial to Galicia's interests and that have never been revised, on the contrary, consolidated and worsened. With the renewal of the common fisheries policy 2014-2020 again, the revision of the principle of relative stability has been forgotten and it has enabled certain countries to keep quotas above their possibilities, while our fleet follows the path of scrapping, of clearing, in spite of the fact that there is a recovery of strategic species, such as fish in the Great Sun, or while at ship-stripping we can talk about the Great Sun, which of the 300 ships has passed to the present 69, despite the fact that there are species like rapping where there are no tons to fish. We see how lobbying imposes business criteria and treaties with other countries, while our ships are expelled or the rate and quota model is shown to be demolifier for the maintenance of activity and employment in Galicia, or while the EFF funds are designed not to help such a highly dependent area of fishing, as is Galicia, but to meet criteria imposed by the European Union, but which certainly do not favour the development of our sector in Galicia. In this context, the application of this new coercive measure, as is that of discards, without a plan appropriate to the reality of fishing in Galicia, is a measure that aims to drastically diminish fishing days, already reducing those of itself scarce catch possibilities, making the profitability of our companies unfeasible and stalling the mooring of more days than we already have to be tied to our fleet. We believe that the planting of discards directly affects the Galician fleet, because it is a multifunctional fishery which, of course, has nothing to do with other fishing countries, especially in the north, which are dedicated to certain species and which also have no quota problems, that is, the application of a standard, of course, has nothing to do with or have taken into account the specificity of the Greek fleets. We can also talk about what affects the fleet of the trawler or the minor arts, which are subjected to measures without regard to their impact at all. We have to talk about a modern, competitive, highly professional fleet that generates great economic activity and that Galicia is highly dependent on. For the BNG it is essential to defend our fleet, it is one of our main productive sectors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u188	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u189	...that must have a huge future — President — but, of course, always and when they let us work and always and when we can turn it around to certain standards like this, to allow us to make that future viable. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u191	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. First of all, to greet the various representatives of the fisheries sector who accompany us here today, to all the people who are in the rostrum and listen to us today, but especially to the Foundation for Minimum Social Sustainable Economic Performance, FREMSS, who is the author of the manifesto to which we are going to give our support today, from the Socialist Group. But I think it's important that we explain how we got here. As we arrive at a situation that has totally damaged the sector, pending a decision that can be made, which can determine the future of the fisheries sector. So this started in 2010, when there was a campaign to fight the elimination of discards, and in 2013, the new common fisheries policy included the need to reduce and eliminate discards, as well as unwanted catches. Thus, in the Common Fisheries Policy, we have, on the one hand, Article 14, which sets out this need to progressively eliminate unwanted catches. The sector understands this obligation, the sector always understands it, and when the necessary balance is maintained that allows the continuity of its activity. Environmental criteria are yes, but, of course, also socio-economic criteria. And, on the other hand, we have Article 15 of the Common Fisheries Policy, which sets out the need to retain on board and land all catches of regulated species, and that will also be accounted for against the quota. And there the sector alerts, alerts the problems for the fleets. Why? Because for some species the quota is very small. In order for you to understand — taking advantage of children and children from school — so that you can understand, all fish coming on the net must land it and count it as a quota, and what goes beyond that quota, are discards, and those discards must land them. Disembarking means to bring them to the ground, and that means that they have to be brought into the boat and, therefore, involves space occupation and also involves workload. This is also a major concern for the sector in two sides. On the one hand, let the fishing possibilities be strangled, because if the fishing opportunities were exhausted you can't go fishing, the fleet would remain tied. If you can't fish, you can't get out, and that can lead to an early halt to the fleet and even loss of employment and, as a result, population loss in a Galician that, as you know, we're on a demographic regression. This will be greater, will have greater impact on mixed fisheries. Mixed fisheries are those that have a main species, and along with this main species can come other that have zero quotas. Or it may also occur that there is a natural increase in one or other species and that there is not enough quota. So it's a concern to see the strangled possibilities. And as we said before, it also worries about space as well as the workload that this entails. Well, in this scenario, in this situation, with a common fisheries policy, the FREMSS Foundation has just brought us to all parliamentary groups its manifesto, in which it demands precisely that this obligation we are talking about today should be made flexible, that this obligation to land, which they know will be effective from January 2019, will be made more flexible. It is clear that the European Union's own Committee on Fisheries, with its proposals, has been creating problems to meet this obligation. We all remember, for example, the yard that comes to the net and we remember the images of the Welsh sailors throwing the yard off the edge, throwing away their work, etc. I take advantage, moreover, of the fact that the Counsellor is here to ask her if she really thinks, when they tell us that quotas are sufficient, that a fishing vessel that only lasts two months, March and April, that implies enough quotas. And at the end of the day, discards have been made, the European Union is unable to establish a management model for this fishing vessel that allows the Galician fleet and the Cantabrian fleet to capture the yard with sufficient quota. I think today, in addition, it is important for us to reflect and ask ourselves what the Sea Council is doing to reverse this situation as well. The sector has concrete proposals for the garden aimed at making a different exploitation, but everything, as you know, is stopped. Concern persists and has to persist, because, as the sector warns, measures in solving the real problem for a fleet that lacks sufficient quotas, and mainly mixed fisheries would see their fishing possibilities strangled, which implies, as we said before, binding the fleet. If there's no fishing opportunities, you can't go fishing, and therefore the fleet will be tied. Therefore, today from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we support the statement by FREMSS, which makes it clear that it defends and shares the necessary conservation of marine ecosystems, maintaining and raising the populations of its living resources and maximum sustainable yields, but also advocating that the fisherman be taken as part of the resource, seeking a balance between them, a food that is fundamental to human populations and that, as is currently established the obligation to land in biological terms, it may endanger the socio-economic sustainability of the fisheries structure and the employment of the productive sector. Finally, just saying that we support this initiative today by sharing that the elimination of discards has to be progressive so that it can be a viable compromise. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Before I give the floor to Mr. Merlo, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, allow me, Mr. Merlo, just a second, that I will greet the students and students of the Plurilingual Center O Ramo, de Barallobre, Fene, students of 5th and 6th primary, and also greet all the people who accompany us today in the gallery and the teachers. Welcome to Parliament. Thank you very much. And now, Mr. Merlo, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u193	Thank you very much, President. To greet the representatives of the sector and of the Foundation's minimal social sustainable economic performance, FREMSS, which calls on this institution to facilitate the obligation to land catches within the framework of its zero discard policy. The entity has submitted to all groups at the request of a manifesto in which it is urged not to apply an equal discard policy for all fleets and for all fleets alike. We agree that this is a big mistake. They point out in their manifesto, that we support this initiative, that in general terms the European Union fleet is estimated to discard about 1,300,000 tons of fish, 10% of the catch, because they are not suitable for consumption, they have no commercial outlet, they do not have a regulatory size or they do not have quota to cover their catches. This is one of the problems and reality. The reference mode for contrasting it, they themselves transfer to us the fact that, compared with the discard data of fishing activity, in the European Union, they refuse annually over 89 million tonnes of food in good state, 30% of that produced. So there's a comparative worsening between policies that apply in industries, in sectors, and in others. We consider it necessary to have a reflection, at least, on this. Around the activity we have to consider the goal of zero discards as an objective of zero food waste, which is unattainable today. We know, and we're told, that the sector has been working actively, for the last decade, on reducing these discards, as the data so resembles. They try to improve the efficiency and sustainability of activity, but of course everything has to be trusted with flexibility to achieve common objectives that interest both the sector and society alike. We believe, in this sense, that all society, and the sector itself, share the importance of reducing discards, although we must also consider the need to value other issues. That is to say, the scientific community itself today, even though it considers discards to be a step that must be promoted and that must be involved, they are not clear as this policy so restrictive in terms of biomass itself and the marine environment. For example, there are many lakes in the reports and studies carried out that discriminate the scientific community about how these measures affect the marine environment, since these discards, after all, are also part of the marine ecosystem, as they are often used in the trophic chain. Another of the points, for example, is how it also influences quota restrictions, often in certain species in biomass. Obviously, biomass must be preserved, but often there are fruit imbalances of removing one of the predators from the system, such as fishing. We're often living here in Galicia, particularly with the invasion of this new kind of garden that is not the common, the garden paints, I think it's called... right, and that, of course, if we want to protect the biomass from sardine, we also have a factor that is making this difficult, because that yard entirely devours that other species that we want to protect. So in this reflection we have to introduce certain criteria: that there is no single truth, that there is a common end, but that we must have a certain flexibility. On the other hand, we must also take into account an issue which has already been moved here by the other spokesmen who preceded me, which is the question of how much weight Galicia has and how important the fishing sector is for the gross domestic product not only of the country, but of the whole state, we must have a little more strength and capacity to resolve these issues. That is to say, these policies can really lead to a different objective than they are intended, which is to place Galicia definitely in this slow-speed Europe where we often want to be included with these policies that do not resemble fair or proportionate or effective towards the target they pursue, but rather very effective in order to make it very difficult to develop a productive sector such as fisheries, which is fundamental to the development of the country. So I won't extend much more. I express our support and congratulations for the good work being done by the sector and the proposal for a manifesto that is being moved to us today, in which we ask this institution to support the request for the flexibility of these policies, taking into account, of course, other factors such as the nature of each one of the fisheries, and not making a whole which, of course, is neither fair nor equal to the needs of the sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u194	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. Today we have a lot of student and student rotation, that's good. I wish many more would come here to Parliament. And now we use to greet students and students of exchange, French and Italian, of Burela Town Hall. Welcome to Parliament. And now yes, you have the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u195	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, officials of the FREMSS Foundation, students who accompany us today in this plenary session, Counsellor, before I come into this area, I would like to speak a little bit and take a brief look at the speeches of the previous Members of the European Parliament, who have many recommendations, many demands and many advices for the Members of the People's Party. They say that we should gossip on occasion, that we act with tibia... Before we start the subject — I insist — I meant that the Members of the People's Party of Galicia don't like it is that in this House the Members of you don't know who I am. That's not a decent thing, that'd have to be something to blush. So we are not going to allow all the speeches in this House today to fall on the Members of the People's Party, we are not going to allow them. [[Applause]] Let's go to the subject, let's go to the subject, because the truth is to congratulate all the groups because we are going to support today a manifesto of the FREMSS Foundation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm going to talk about the set of requests they make in the manifesto, so we, this party, this Galician joint, of course, are in favor. I'm not going into any subjects or magisterial classes, as the voicer of the PSdEG, or that of En Marea, of concrete explanations, because I don't think they know more than the people who wrote that manifesto. Therefore, this party and the Galician Union have always defended the need to progressively avoid discards in fishing based on rigorous studies made species by species, made locker by locker; therefore, seeking other fishing alternatives. And it is true that this — the obligation to land all catches — is a very important and fundamental point of the common fisheries policy, and therefore we are very interested in involving ourselves in this matter. This is also reflected — what we say to look for different alternatives — in the Galician Ditome on the reform of the common fisheries policy, done by the Union and the Galician Fisheries Council, and in particular where a main point is taken to set a position on that proposal for the total elimination of discards. In addition, it should be pointed out that this zero discard policy, which sets out the common fisheries policy, directly affects the European Union's fishing quota allocation criterion, called the principle of relative stability and established more than thirty years ago, at a time when there was no obligation to land catches. We have also stated this in a GNP which presented the People's Parliamentary Group on this subject, and we have put these same arguments on the table. It is therefore difficult to implement in the short term this measure which proposes the common fisheries policy, and we understand that technical studies are needed, that there is a need for greater temporary flexibility in its application. Among the flexibility measures proposed by Galicia before the ban are rent or purchase of quota and the increase of quotas to approach the composition of catches. It is also the establishment of a Community reserve for accidental catches of fishing quotas or the use of selective arts, also exposed — I insist — in the GNP that we present two or three plenarys. To advance this issue, we know that Galicia is also actively involved in the State Bureau for the elimination of discards. The councillor represents us at the state table that was set up by the Central Government to analyse the action plans, precisely, to be developed to minimize discards and also to obtain the highest performance and use of them. And for the defence of this flexibility we also call for cooperation among the regions, because this is an initiative, it is a policy of the European Union that affects different regions with common interests. Since then Galicia has already participated in several meetings with other affected regions, such as Britain or the gallop country in the preparation of joint actions. There was also in Vigo, last June, a day with these regions to share these jobs and delineate the course of our demands. Demands in which we share feelings and interests and in which we have many allies. We, as a majority parliamentary group and which also supports the Government, feel that we have a great responsibility to support this manifesto. And we therefore believe that it is fundamental and that it is very important to go hand in hand. We also know that the work of the sector in this sector is being supported by the self-government and the central government. And there are several projects that are developed with the participation of Cetmar, known as several developed with the fleet of Marin and the fleet of Vigo. In any case, this document that FREMSS proposes seems to us very accurate, we believe it represents the feeling of the sector and also that of the Union. A document, in addition, which was the subject of debate at the Galego Fisheries Council, has therefore been referred back to that council where the sector is represented, and will therefore be referred to the Galego Fisheries Council and this Parliament, because we will vote in favour of all the groups. And we share the vision of FREMSS and we don't want to fall into positions that drown our sector. We know that fewer discards, more revenue, can turn into zero discards, zero revenue, and that, as this explanatory statement says, or we discard some fish or we will have to discard many fishermen. So we either discard some fish or we'll have to start discarding a lot of value added to our economy. We advocate and support FREMSS in its defense of a real and effective flexibility of the full obligation rule of landing, a position in which we also know that there is the German Government and that it has come to defend, in addition, in the management of the norm itself, and by that time, that the rigid posture of a principle becomes already a gradual application of that air; we need air, we need air, and in that we know that it is. If we add forces, if we add arguments, we know that we can all go out ahead together and that we will go forward. So welcome are initiatives like this, by the whole House, and the support that will be given to you today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. After we have finished the debate on non-legislative proposals, we proceed to the vote on these proposals. Close the doors, please. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u197	We begin by voting on that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative by Mrs Noela Blanco, on the increase by the Greek Government of the number of jobs of the disability assessment teams in Galicia in order to eliminate waiting lists. I was pending a transaction. If you'd like to read it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u198	Yes, I read: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to increase the number of jobs of disability assessment teams in our autonomous community with the aim of eliminating the waiting list before the end of November 2018, both in applications and in reviews of disability assessments."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the increase by the Government of Galicia of the number of jobs of disability assessment teams in Galicia in order to eliminate waiting lists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u200	We are now voting on the Non-Legal Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, through Mrs. Ángeles Cuña. There was a self-amendment that was approved, and a transaction is pending. Don't read it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u201	Yes, the same applies to point 1, the 2 and the 3(a) and point 3.(b) would read: "In view of the agreement unanimously adopted by the plenary session of the Council of the European Union, put in place all appropriate administrative and judicial actions to achieve their recovery or conversion of possession and of their own will for the public heritage of the peace of Meiraes and their subsequent destination agreed to the use of public resources."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. In Marea, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez García and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the title of acquisition of the palace of Meirás by Francisco Franco. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; against 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u203	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mrs Maria Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez. Amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block and to the Socialist Parliamentary Group were not accepted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez and eight other Members, on the establishment by the Galician Council of measures to strengthen the International Committee of Experts on the Way of Santiago, as well as the development of a programme of collaborations with the Jacobean study centres. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; abstentions, 18. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u204	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the demand by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government for a plan of compensation in railway matters that includes concrete commitments specifically directed to the interior of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u205	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado. Point 2 of the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was accepted as an addendum, as well as point 2 as an addendum, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and eleven other Members, on the impulse by the Greek Government of legal reforms that are necessary for the Galician Union to be able to defend the rights of victims and to take criminal action in trials for crimes of discrimination arising from or because of the family situation as a result of the woman's motherhood. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u206	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Ms Maria Luisa Pierres. Is there an amendment from the People's Parliamentary Group and a compromise proposal? Isn't there? [[Pause.]] So we vote as the proposal is drafted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Maria Luisa Pierres López and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the effective equality of women and men in the general administration and in the autonomous public sector, in businesses and in employment, as well as the demands to be made by the central government in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u207	We voted for the Non-Legal Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was not accepted. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry. Yes, Mr. Bará?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u208	The Socialist Group calls for a separate vote on point 2, and then we would have no problem accepting it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u209	Then we have to start over. Of course! [[Murmurs.]] We have to start again, I'll hear about it now, and I can't... then we'll start the vote again. Vote of the second point of the Proposal, not the law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union to demand from the Government of the State the amendment of the Criminal Code and the derogation of the Citizenship Security Act to prevent the current interpretation of crimes of incitement to hate and heightening terrorism. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This point two is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u210	And we vote on the rest of the points of this non-law proposal. Voting the remaining points of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union to demand from the Government of the State the amendment of the Criminal Code and the derogation of the Citizenship Security Act to prevent the current interpretation of crimes of incitement to hate and heightening terrorism. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 53. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these points are rejected in this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u211	We are now voting for the Group of the People's Parliament of Galicia, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Group of the Nationalist Block and the Group of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Non-legislative vote of the G.G.P.P. Popular of Galicia, In Marea, Galician Socialists and Galego Nationalist Block, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the Manifesto for the flexibility of the obligation to disembark catches made by the European Union fleet, drawn up by the Foundation for Sustainable and Social Minimum Economic Performance. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u212	Before I continue with the other item on the agenda, let me read an institutional statement that brings the groups to me in relation to the International Day of the Gypsy People: "The Galician Parliament, like every 8th of April, adds to the celebration of the International Day of the Gypsy People. A date that reminds us of the Georgian World Congress held in London on April 8, 1971, where the Roma flag and anthem were established, symbols of an identity with a history and culture of their own. A good moment for homage and I remind all those victims of a long history of exclusion, rejection and persecution. A good time to remind our societies that the Gypsy people continue to live today, in Spain and Europe, a second citizenship. Despite the social advances that have taken place in recent decades, and despite the most recent steps in the institutional recognition of the Roma community, Gypsy and Gypsy continue to experience situations of serious inequality, exclusion and segregation with regard to the whole of citizenship; they continue to be the most discriminated against, both in Spain and in the European Union, and they continue to be excluded from the social participation processes of those who enjoy the rest of their citizens in societies like ours. Since public authorities have often given partial, sectoral and short-term responses to a reality that does not take into account the value of cultural diversity and does not recognize it as a development factor in society. We need to address the question of gypsy from an integral perspective of cultural recognition, rights and citizenship. Faced with the persistent gap of inequality suffered by Roma people in access to and enjoyment of basic social rights, such as the right to decent housing, the right to education, or a job and to equitable and satisfactory working conditions, they buy policies that really protect, promote and defend the rights of people, also minorities and socially disadvantaged groups. Faced with the growing rejection of the different and exclusive discourses that promote negative prejudices and stereotypes, and incite discrimination and hate speech towards certain groups, such as the Roma, more education, awareness-raising and enforcement of legislation than the promotion of equality and the right to non-discrimination. Faced with social dynamics that systematically exclude or invisibility the Roma people from processes of citizen participation and cultural recognition, policies are needed that favour spaces and channels of participation of people and groups with multiple and diverse cultural identities. To ensure the exercise of full citizenship of the Roma community since recognition of its cultural identity, it is therefore necessary to advance in parallel in three directions: equal access and enjoyment of social rights; protection against violation of the right to non-discrimination; as well as institutional recognition of its cultural identity and the promotion of its participation in the different spheres of society, such as citizens and citizens, such as Gypsies and Gypsies, by placing on value their cultural identity and the approaches that they have made to society throughout history. The International Day of the Gypsies, although not officially recognized in Spain, is increasingly being held in towns and cities by the involvement and commitment of many administrations, entities and institutions that recognize the Gypsy people as an inherent part of our society. It's a good time, therefore, to claim cultural diversity and the value that comes from the different cultural, plural, diverse and dynamic identities that, like the gypsy, make up our society. But it's also a good time to ask for the support of public authorities and the solidarity of society to move forward, as other groups or groups are doing more active or with greater support in society, towards the recognition of economic, social and cultural rights that allow Gypsies and Gypsies not only to improve their living conditions, but also to be an active part of citizenship. Santiago de Compostela, April 11, 2018" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u213	It's over, they can open the doors, we continue with the order of the day. We continue with interpelerations. Da Eva Solla Fernández, by G. P. de En Marea, on the policy of the Italian Government in relation to the provision of health care in Sergas through concerts with private health care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u214	Mrs. Solla has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u215	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, now. However, we are here again to talk about this matter and, as we have already indicated yesterday, we did not really have much hope — certainly, there is no problem in recognising it — that you accepted the appearance, but we are glad to maintain the insistence on this interpellation, because yesterday we were witnessing an appearance in which you virtually did not answer any of the questions we raised. We already know that we do not generally agree with the health model and, of course, with this privatization, in our understanding, with health services. So today we are forced, again, to come here in the face of a situation that we consider to be a very serious situation. And I would like you to answer questions today, not only during yesterday's session, but what we're going to do today. The reality is that you only have to see the requirement for technical prescriptions and the requirement for administrative clauses to realize the magnitude of this privatization, which you minimize by transferring that there was already a service consultation. Indeed, we are wondering why today in all of the Galego Health Service, today, it cannot provide the public system with haemodialysis, the hemodialysis treatments that should be taking place within the Galego Health Service. You know, you probably already know, that we've required those contracts and the list of contracts that you keep with a series of companies and foundations in a situation, in our understanding, totally opaque. A benefit that should perfectly and could be provided within the Galician Health Service. You enter into this contract as a lot, but of course you introduce another lot more than, for our understanding, it is the first time that it is globalized within a contract the privatization of all these services, and there are a number of questions within the nails that you should -- I would say that you will have to answer -- here, because it's customary that you don't answer. You normalize a situation in which public health funds are progressively being transferred to private health. And we're going to start with the order of the pages of the nail, because there are a lot of questions that you should clarify here. I think it is quite clear — page 3 of the requirements for administrative clauses — that when you transfer that, of course, in this process, in addition to making the company's own history available, and you tell them here that they have to undertake not to use or apply the data to those who have access for reasons of service, it's worth it. How will they ensure entry since it is in compliance with the Data Protection Act? And with what consent do those people, to whom you are obliged to go to private under the Health Insurance Act, give consent to have access to their clinical stories? This is not the most relevant thing about privatization, but of course it's there. [[Murmurs.]] And there's a very important aspect and we've already told you yesterday that it's what we're most interested in, which has to do with those public health professionals you're going to force to go to work or intervene in private. It speaks for itself, in the first page, for example, of the procedures carried out by physicians of the Galician Health Service, and throughout the whole of the prayers it will refer to some procedures in which these professionals will be required. You didn't answer yesterday. Our understanding here is the Incompatibilities Act, although at the beg they say that the law will not be violated, and, of course, you are on top of collective bargaining with respect to trade union power stations. It is patented in the prayers of itself in that sense. But, in addition, there are other relevant aspects that you should answer here today. We understand that what they're doing, in addition, is not only privatizing the system, but encouraging the low quality of care. There's one point that seems to us to be a scandal, and it's that you put the most premature highs on that contract. He literally says, "In order to establish encouraging mechanisms that prioritize centres that strive to provide higher quality of care and to have less average stay, they will be distinguished within the category of stay with doctors from the center three subcategories." I mean, you give more points to the centers than you guarantee they'll send the patients home first. That in practice is something totally distant from the quality of care, you don't have a medical approach, there are patients who need to leave first, there are patients who will need to stay longer. But here are more scores for those who can ensure that, of course, people will be sent home first. Of course, that, of course, Mr. Almuinho, is far from speaking of quality of care. And to ensure that the business continues — page 7 — when the discharge is caused by the transfer of the patient to a hospital in the Galician Health Service because it does not have the right means for its assistance, it will not conduct the billing of the process, in which case only the stays generated so far will be paid. He just had to be paid without the treatment! The reality is that, in spite of the fact that they will privatize and, therefore, those companies sign contracts with public health, it turns out that if they have no means, nothing happens. In practice what does that mean? The companies will choose what is more profitable for them, and as always the most expensive, the most complex, remains for public health. You don't want to end everything with public health, it's obvious, because you need it to meet those more expensive pathologies and that they're not business for private health, it's quite obvious throughout all the nails. In cases — I said — in which in the same intervention it confuses more than one pathological process or different locations of the same process, it will be billed with a 40% increase on the most complex process rate. Business for the private company, page 8. It seems to us quite striking and at the same time shocking. In the field of vascular surgery, as regards arterial pathology, the tariff does not include the special diagnostic procedures, which are expressly marked as billing concepts in Annex I. I would like, Mr. Almuña, to clarify here today how good these interventions will be done. There's a scandal in the hospital in Pontevedra, you're sending people to intervene in Quiron, in private, with an older and more invasive technique, without warning them of the technique they're going to practice. I should reply here today that you are going to do not only with Pontevedra's patients, but also with the Coruña's patients, and what quality of care you are going to ensure with this privatisation when — if we go to the demand for administrative clauses on the score — there is not a single element that refers to the quality of care as a score for this contract, but you are referring to technical criteria that range from the number of beds to the number of surgical interventions. By the way, the sessions that are going to be held with private staff are the same as with the Galego Health Service staff, which you are going to force to go to work in private, we don't know what conditions, because it seems they haven't negotiated them. Therefore, there is no quality criterion of any kind, and you should answer here today according to which patients and patients in the Crown may be safe that when they are sent to the private, of course, in a mandatory way — thanks to their Health Insurance Act — they will have the same quality as in the Galician Health Service. They can't, because Pontevedra is already doing it. What's going on? When one refuses to go, he disappears from the list and loses the warranty. Yes, Your Ladyship, that's in your law, that's in your decree, and people eventually go to private because they don't give you another choice, and they go, in addition, in this wrong case, with greater sequels and they go with higher recovery. That technique was good for when there were no others, but now in the public service, fortunately, there are better techniques, but you have to guarantee the business of the lords of Quiron. Tell us what are the techniques for vascular surgery that will be used in the University Complex of Coruña. And blindinan, blindinan, throughout all the nails, speak of what will be done, that will blow the rate of the process, discarded if they had any evidence done; i.e. private will never lose, you can select patients and in case it doesn't work well, you'll always have the public to assume the treatment of that person. And the patient circling from place to place without an assessment of the quality of care. Not only the quality of care, but a financial assessment. And yesterday I told him and I'll transfer him back: the Board of Auditors complains that you don't have any sort of oversight report in any of the EOXI, neither in the Coruña. On the basis that you can make a contract of 98 million euros when you don't even have EOXI accounts? What kind of internal operation is this? What kind of quality in management and administration, Mr. Almuña? Can you answer why there are no accounts? It is quite serious, the truth, and every year the Board of Auditors denounces it. I'm going to end up, I'm going to be running out of time right now. There are other aspects that I'll transfer to you later. We should explain that this is the concept of "surgical aid", a new way in which private personnel will replace public personnel to operate in private and which, in addition, will be billed over the surgical bill or the particular intervention bill. And, of course, throughout the rest of the pages that lasts please you guarantee that service, and yet you do not justify, or you did not justify yesterday in any way, as you will guarantee the rights of workers and workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u216	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u217	...and today we were forced to bring back these circumstances and I hope that today you will answer at least some of the questions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u218	Thank you very much. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u219	Very good morning. Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that today I'll probably repeat some of the data that yesterday in the audience, because my interpellations today one comes from a question from the previous plenary and another comes from an audience yesterday. So I'm really sorry if at some point I repeat data already exposed. The integrated organizational management structure manages the health resources of its reference route, both for staff and for hospitals and health centres. The Integrated Management Administration of the Crown is about to be the Branch of the Crown and Virgin Area of June, and provides health coverage for a population of 548,283 citizens, of which 52% are women and 48% men. 23.3% are older than sixty-five years and life expectancy at birth is 82.6 years. This population is located in thirty-six municipalities in the province of Coruña and has five hospitals, three specialty centers, fifty-nine health centers, twelve consultants and thirteen continuous points of care. In these facilities work around 7,500 professionals, 77% are women, and the budget that manages this agency for 2018 is 662 million euros, 9% more than 2017. In primary care, the health system in the province of Coruña and Sergas forms a solid and well distributed structure, a care network that allows any citizen of Galicia to have a health resource very close to their home, that's one of the great strengths of the Galician Health Service. Since April 2017 we decided to move forward with Telea for primary care, which is the home care platform integrated into corporate information systems, which facilitates the telematic access of patients in the various care services and allows the care control of patients at home. At the same time we also advance and enhance the role of nursing—as we also commented yesterday—with the creation of the category of nurses specialists in primary care and the convening of power squares, as I say, acting on patients, especially with important aging in our community. The health centres set up in operation in recent years by this council are Culleredo, Artexo-Vilarrodis, Cambre, O Temple, Vilarmairo, Oleiros, Agualada-Coristanco and New Mexoeiro. We're also with the CHUAC master plan, doing so. So right now, we close Phase II, where we act on a 32 million investment in the Surgical Block, Urgency, Sterilization and Radiology. And the reform works and the expansion of the Earth's Emergency began this week for a value of 1.4 million euros, and we'll act on an area of 1,300 square meters. We're working on phase III of the Coruña hospital right now. The new surgical block that we put into operation just a few months ago is located on the same floor, when it was previously distributed on four floors, with which we have the thirty-two surgeries on the same line. At the same time, we also have three new emergency surgeries with more than 600 meters of surface with respect to those we had before. A work, this new block, of 7 million euros and an equipment supply of 7.8 million. In this investment we also invest the new sterilization plant, which, as you well know, is essential for good surgical performance, to be able to sterilize the material as soon as possible to provide coverage for the activity of our professionals. Within that surgical block, as you know, is one of the only two hybrid surgeons currently in Galicia, and also of the few in Spain. But also the comarcas hospitals in this area are also being strengthened, as we said, of course, by following the philosophy approved in the Health Law in the last few weeks and which will enter into force at the end of this month. The Virxe Hospital of the Young Youth, as I said, a new health district, is shielded, but at the same time we are acting in the Hemodialysis Service, tripled the capacity it had so far, so we will avoid displacements to the city of Coruña. As for activity, because we have very good numbers, as for priority 1 has been reduced in nearly 1.5 days, from seventeen to sixteen days. In priority 2 pathologies there was also the average waiting time in sixty days, and in the external query area the average waiting time to be attended significantly decreased by 43.4 days compared to ten days less than in the previous year. As for the number of people waiting to be assisted in external consultations for a first consultation, the number of people decreased by 1,600. And also the fast ways are working in a way, I think, very efficient way. In lung cancer, it's about 3.8 days, in prostate 9.4 days, with which the records, the truth is, they went down a lot. In breast cancer it's also in one day, in bladder cancer in 9.7 days and colorectal in 3.5 days. So these priorities 1 and 2 the opposition always says that we are privatizing them, they are clearly responses from the public health system, just like the new decree in maximum times, where we are responding — as the President said this morning — to all the interventions within the public health system in Galicia. As for the concerts, with regard to collaboration with the private sector, we believe it is important that there is a private sector complementary to the public sector, which adds value to the health system as a whole. The concertation of private centres has been taking place for decades, through legal instruments available. Once the previous concert contracts have been completed, a new tender has had to be processed. The procurement dossier for specialized health assistance shall be used as a framework agreement, subject to harmonised regulation for the selection of undertakings and the establishment of the conditions governing contracts arising from it, in accordance with Article 196 et seq. of the Consolidated Text of the Law on Public Sector Contracts, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 3/2011 of 14 November. In particular, as regards the type-approval of the contract arising from the procurement file under consideration, we must take into account the provisions of Directive 23/2014 of the European Union, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 February 2014. After the expiry of the deadline for transposition of the said directive, our order of 18 April 2016 is expiring the legal regime of the contract for the management of public services in its form of concession, which was what had so far been, and replaced, so we present the contract for the award of public service every time the definitions contained therein are bound to be clear, precise and not to have to be conditioned. There is a change of name that marks us the legislate and transposing of the European Union. This is a contract which has as its object one of the activities referred to in category 25 of Annex 2 recast text of the law on public sector contracts, social services and health services, and there is no doubt about its qualification as a service contract. Open procedure and ordinary processing are used for its adjudication. We therefore comply with the rules and all legal instruments. In fact, the documentation to which the honourable Member referred consists of a legal memory of the need for administrative clauses, the requirement for technical prescriptions, the initial requirement of the file, the report of the Directorate-General for Health Assistance, the report of the Legal Counsel, the report of the general intervention, the agreement of the Board of Trustees, and was published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, in the DG and also in the BOE. Therefore, transparency and logically the different reports indicate that there is complete and absolute compliance with the law. The 2018 budget for concerts, as we have repeated on many occasions, is going to be EUR 205.5 million, with an increase of 1% compared to 2017, but 11 million less than the two-party government has known for a number of years. So what has to be clear is that it's a legal issue, that's been done for many years and that, of course, what we're going to move forward is the changes that the contract law requires us to give quality assistance. In view of the fact that we are always talking about concerted centres accredited by the inspection of the services of the council, the council itself, with quality criteria; quality criteria that are also within the prescriptions, which it just didn't give Parliamentary lady time to read and study, but are there for them to be seen. I think it's a controversy. I think by not reading at the first moment that it was, he wanted to give a press round and he went out a little bit of a mother, and now he wants to resume, but, of course, there's no reason to put privatization when we're always talking about minimal percentages and, as I say, repeated for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u220	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u221	Thank you, President. This is not an interpellation for you to clarify the administrative concepts, although it is good that you recognize that there are, indeed, other forms of recruitment. But this isn't an interpellation for that, and let me tell you that you are wrong about this House with this intervention. Yesterday he no longer answered the questions, and we are accustomed to his sovereignty, to his disrespect. But I don't care about myself — who, frankly, offends me who can, not who wants, but the rest of the Greeks and Greeks and the people waiting for an answer from the health officer of those Greeks and Greeks. Because you, very much to our sorrow, are responsible for the health of all the Galicians and the Greeks, and unfortunately you have neither the courage nor the ability to come here and answer, as is your obligation. I remind you, once again, of the questions and questions raised by the opposition. You don't believe in power division, you have an interpellation in writing. I think you have the ability to read it and, of course, to answer depending on what I just moved it. And you do an introduction again by making a description that we don't ask for in this interpellation. It's quite common for you to use the first intervention to say nothing, the second to insult the opposition and in the last phase to make a summary that you use as a headline. We're used to that method, you do it pretty often. But, Your Ladyship, you have the written interpellation and you haven't responded. And I'd like you to say why, despite having no accounts of your EOXI — that you should answer for that — because the responsibility for us not having EOXI accounts of the Crown and the rest is yours. Responsibility serves both the opposite and the negative, and you should tell us here what the justification is for resorting structurally to this provision of private services. See, of course, the Board of Auditors, this is not a supplementary benefit. The Council itself — which is not, of course, close to En Marea — indicates in all reports each year that these types of benefits, the agreements, are constituting something structural of the system. In addition, it indicates a page of the last report, which generally does not set specific requirements for the management of the provision, in particular, do not regulate the resource conditions or the quality of care, nor do control indicators be specified. There's not a single indicator of control that tells us what the quality of care you're going to give to the patients. Tell us how they're going to treat those vascular surgery patients, if they're going to cheat them, as they do in Pontevedra. You should answer for this. And, of course, he didn't answer what they were going to do with the professionals. You have, Mr. Cousin, I repeat, the questions in writing. You don't think this is an abuse of public health, you think this is a nimity, that this is a small contract, and you want — you think — that by insulting us and demeaning our parliamentary work you can take away or withdraw the focus of privatization that you are perpetually committing to public health. But we have a contract for four years, 98 million euros shielded for that private health, and in which the patients will not be able to say they don't go, because for that you have been shielded in the Health Insurance Act, and the money, all that accumulation that goes more and more to private, and I have to get back the report of the Board of Auditors, which says that last year it has increased by 0.9%, and in the previous year it was 1.4%, because we reviewed it every year, Mr. Almoínña, all that money that goes to private doesn't go to the public, and there are bad cases like what is happening in the Santiago de Compostela Urgents. By the way, tomorrow we take him to the commission, and we have precisely the caution of the doctors at the center before the death of the patient who is being investigated. We're tired of bringing grave circumstances here, and you despise all that suffering from these people, and you force them, in addition, to go to private with a blindfold of those contracts that you make; you have the written questions. Tell us how you're going to negotiate with the unions that forced mobility of these professionals. Tell us what the conditions are going to be, and tell us why, repeatedly, you refuse to answer here. We're not going to get tired of bringing this circumstance here, as much as you insist, because what you're doing with public health is no longer what the Board of Auditors says, that it must of course be warned that the President of the Council repeatedly and you also when he insists that professionals have increased in public health, the Council of Auditors is written the percentage of reduction of that expenditure. But, Mr. Almuña, at least tell some truth, or try to answer some of the questions. We, for our part, will continue to insist, as much as it bothers you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close this interrogation, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, until now, I don't think I've insulted the parliamentarian, I've called myself proud, lying, and ignorant yesterday, so I don't think that's the formula for making opposition. I honestly don't think so. Logically, I have to answer what I think I have to answer, not what you think I should do, but if I have to say a number of things that have been said and that are not real about the issue of inefficiency, that all that is spent on concerteds is because of inefficiency. The inefficiencies mark that we are Spain's waiting list rooms, I think it's a good data of inefficiencies that says the opposition. The framework agreement is an agreement that gives legal certainty to an act, it is a political decision that is made at a given time, but with a legal framework based on everything we are saying so far, with total transparency, which I think is also important. And there's a change of name, which is that public service management contract becomes a public service concession contract. There are quality criteria, there are quality objectives that are in the annex, I don't know if you've seen them or not, but if you call me attention, deeply, besides, to say that reducing the average living room -- the average living room, not the living room of an individual -- is bad. I thought, precisely, what everyone wants is to try to solve their problem and go home. How can we consider that not a criterion that must be given primacy? Of course, you have to push it, because the citizen needs to get back to his house as soon as possible. Of course, the most complex thing we do in the public, with difference, and there we all agree, but it seems also bad, according to the parliamentarian, it has to also derive the most complex from private. Of course not, we won't. Why? Because we have the best facilities and the best professionals. And we're still doing all kinds of pathology in the public system. When we talk about it being a contract equivalent to 2.7 percent of the total public assistance budget in the Coruña area, it's obviously a smaller percentage, but it's less than what the Bipartite made a few years ago. And, as I said yesterday, he's bad luck, too, for taking an appearance first and then bringing this plea, knowing that he was already accepted by the audience, that you lied yesterday saying that you didn't know if they would accept the appearance. At the Bureau of Parliament he said, and he didn't want to withdraw this. What they want is not to solve, not to inform themselves, they want something else. They want something else! But I say they're bad luck, because just yesterday -- and it's funny too -- the Board of Auditors, multi-appointed by the representative of En Marea, and we're talking about the Federation of Public Health Defense, it puts Galicia at the level of what privatization they tell us about the EOXI of Coruña, and it turns out that we're on the middle level, and that we've been improving four posts since 2015, down on privatization according to the Federation of Public Health Defense at the national level, and last year we're down two posts. But in addition, there's another additional data, which is a point that is the percentage of health expenditure devoted to hiring private centers. Interestingly, in that we're the tenth, or the eleventh, because we're drawn, from seventeen, we're at the number ten or number eleven, that is, the ones that we have less percentage of spending. We're not talking about Catalonia anymore, but we can talk about a lot more. So I think they have some bad information, or they want to misinformation. And there's another thing, which has been repeated several times, the subject of which Sergas professionals can perform interventions in a concerted center. Well, look, that happens, that's in the contract, because at some point we have works, or we have some problem with surgery, we can use these surgeries to work, in the normal working hours of the worker. Obviously, on a voluntary basis, but doing his job. But I rescue an information that says that when works were done — I believe it was in the Bipartite in 2007 and 2008 — the works in the surgical block of the conxo hospital, the Hospital Complex Administration used the surgeons of the concerted centres to perform operations with its own personnel. Press release from El Correo Gallego. These kinds of performances were done in the Bipartite, and they have always been done in concerts, and that possibility remains, but of course, the highest percentage is made in public health, only 2.7 percent is derived from private health, and this is an exceptional measure that is used when necessary, and so on. But I say, quality, legality, political decision, that all governments — not just Galicia, Spain and for many years now — use it in a balanced way to use it in certain peaks. And as he always repeats, the one who decides not to go to a concerted center, which, as we say, are not the complex patients, continues in the patient register and is intervened in the center he chooses. And with the decree of maximum times, we managed to get all the patients who weren't willing in their hospital to be intervened, they could elect another hospital if they wanted, but always public, public, non-private, public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u224	Thank you, Counselor. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the deficiencies in hospital emergency services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u225	To formulate the inquiry, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u226	Good morning. First of all, I want to greet the representatives of the CHUS Emergency Service professionals of Santiago, and I want to correct it, Counsellor, and also very good day, because this interpellation does not come from a question from the previous plenary, this interpellation comes from that neither you nor your advisors give answers to the problems they have in the CHUS Emergency Service, because if you had solved the problems, we wouldn't be asking again about the question, nor would the workers' representatives be here. That's just the point. [[Applause]] Clearly, you come here with your little paper, you answer what you want, but you don't answer, you repeat mechanically what you want, you don't give the answer. I have to tell you that they leave scandalous when they come here, because they have the naivety to believe that when the counselor asks, he gives an explanation of why things happen. More or less, a more or less credible answer to why of things. But well, at least we asked you to come here, even though it bothers you -- and you notice that it bothers you -- to have to listen to what the problem is. At least you know there's a problem, and until you solve it, because it's going to keep coming, because, of course, at BNG, what we're not going to do is keep our arms crossed in the face of the most serious problems, as much as you're putting a lot of tinkers — very little to solve the problems — to impose the report that there's no problem, that public health is great, it's in the state of the magazine. In that they put all their effort, to impose that account, and practically none to solve the problems. But look, the CHUS Emergency Service professionals are denouncing the situation of the service, which is unsustainable, both from the point of view of work and assistance. A situation they've been reporting already -- not for days, not weeks, not months -- they've been reporting for years, they've been asking for meetings, they're trying to figure things out. Since 2012 they have been denouncing the situation in front of the leadership, in front of the People's Valedor, in front of the council, but without getting any answers. Words of, "let's look at it, let's see if we do that," but they didn't get an answer. In front of that they chose to start mobilising, and in front of these mobilizations for moving to political organizations what the situation was for us to demand an answer, but already as the last cartridge, they first tried everything. They tried the dialogue, tried to get the deadlines put into effect, but they didn't see the issues solved. The CHUS Emergency Service has been in a bad situation for years, but now the situation is extreme, the situation is extreme. Before there were flu peaks, then there were peaks in the summer, then there were... but now it's a structural problem, and the situation is structural throughout the year, so much so that they mobilized, they brought the problem to the political organizations and even the subject is in the prosecutor's office, Counsellor. They took the matter to the prosecutor's office, the prosecutor's office investigated the death of a patient in the emergency wards, who died before being treated, and the prosecutor's office saw signs of crime, and transferred him to trial. You're looking forward to seeing what the outcome is, but it's not just a matter of complaint, of alarmism, which has no basis, but even the prosecutor sees signs of crime. I suppose you keep looking elsewhere and minimizing questions. Lack of material, lack of resources, lack of personal resources. I insist, a problem that's not new. The demand did not stop growing, the staff was already scarce, it didn't expand and they pretend to stretch it out as if it were gum, and the staff wasn't chicle. Staff can at a given time for a few days multiply, it can prioritize, but indefinitely, every day, every week, every month, it cannot multiply. A health area that was increasing and incorporating new municipalities: The Road, Lalín, Agolada, Valga, and therefore the flow of patients to emergencies, increased physical spaces, but this was not increasing staff. A situation of very high demand, with very little personal. They have one of the lowest ratios of emergency services -- already told here -- of the Sergas hospitals, below the Chuvi, below the CHUAC. Similar emergency doors in number of treated patients, yes, but nothing to do with human resources; they made the comparative table and I'm going to repeat it. CHUAC, nursing staff, 88; Chuvi, 88; CHUS, 70. Eighteen different nursing staff. Tecaes : CHUAC, 63; Chuvi, 60; CHUS, 44. Between twenty and twenty-three differences, at least in the CHUS. CHUAC, 42; Chuvi, 89; CHUS, 24. An already astronomical difference. We're talking about data, we're talking about the averages of these hospitals being between 300 and peak, 20 to 20 below. Contrasted statistics, Counselor, and if not, sit down with the professionals and put the data on the table. You have them there, when you end up sitting with them, set up a day, fight with them and with the professionals of the other emergency services and collect the data, and talk about what reality is rather than deny it with your head. Sit down with them, sit down with them and talk about the data. Emergency Services respond to this average of 300 and peak-four hundred daily emergencies, with patients growing older, with higher pluripathology. And all while it's worth noting, while the surgeries are increasingly outpatients and beds are closed. Let's remember that advice from the Council that bed is becoming less and less necessary in hospitals. In hotels yes, but in hospitals it is less necessary; with which, outpatient surgery, high and fast dance, waiting lists increase, oncoholic patients increase and primary care is precarious. And where do all those patients end up? In E.R.! They end up going through E.R. People who end up going to the E.R. grow up. Of course, people have the ugly habit of getting sick and not paying attention to that story from the People's Party that everything is magnificent and that people don't have to be cared for. For the situation is not that health in the country of wonders, but that the situation is very different. We're talking about the staff chapter, and now we're going to the material chapter, tremendously deficient, with a very important level of deterioration, obsolete, in many cases, without replacements, with an impressive basic material supply deficit. It's a matter of shame even to mention them, Counselor, like there's no tensiometer per nurse, there's almost one thermometer... It's not understandable that this situation happens in a Sergas hospital, it's not understandable — and it doesn't deny me with my head. And, I insist, get in front of the professionals and have a chance to tell them what conditions they work on. And we can talk about rusty armchairs, questions... I know you can tell me that now a few have changed. They came with a few new seats because, of course, in front of the public opinion that they have to tell a patient: sit down there, in that chair — which even shamelessly tells you to sit in that chair — they just change a few seats and they come up with a few serum sticks... well, less bad!, it's already worth something that we have brought to Parliament and they mobilize, but it's their chocolate. That's the situation of the material: lack of respirators... well, a situation... of course, we are not describing the situation of Burundi's emergency services — and forgive me those of Burundi — but an emergency service in Galicia. And this has a clear impact on the quality of care it lends. The workers are at the limit because they're in a situation where they can't perform their work with a minimum of professionalism, where they're putting their professionalism into play every day, especially where they can't give a quality of care as they should, and where they see they can't care for people as they deserve. That's why, Counselor, I ask you not to play escapism again today, don't play not to answer and please don't give us a storytelling which is the number of boxes, seats, staff... you know! I ask you to speak to the representatives who are there at the tribute, not to give them a report of what is the size of the number of patients and how many emergencies they care, who already know!, and to give them answers to the questions they need, which gives them answers to the beg for minimum questions, because what the professionals transfer to them is not to solve the urgent problems. What you're asked for is minimal questions to improve a little bit the matter of emergency in which you are. And tell them if they're going to solve those minimum issues to start with, and then those minimum issues can sit down and be solved by the emergency service structures. For once — I ask you in their name and for them, which you cannot address here — you have told them, for once you have the opportunity to answer them and to tell them: indeed, we take note -- and today we are talking about the CHUS, but we could talk about the other emergency services -- that this structural situation that has been dragging for a long time cannot go on like this, and we are going to meet the urgent demands that you have brought us up with, immediately, within a week, 15 days or a month, we are going to make a temporary timeline and then we're going to go with the others. He had the decency to start by answering them and he didn't play scapism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u227	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u228	For now, nothing else, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u229	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u230	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Workers and representatives of the workers of the CHUS. The development of emergency services in recent decades is an indisputable issue: structural reforms, staffing, seasonal contingency plans, different processes, clinical pathways, alternative circuits... so, in structural reforms, we have renewed and strengthened the infrastructures of emergency services, and we continue with those improvements. Part of the axes of hospital reforms in Galicia are always from the emergency service. Patients are always cared for, first through the process of screening — implantation complemented in the Greek hospitals in 2013 — and, depending on this, with the established priority. It's not true that they spend hours without being cared for; they're prioritized from the very first moment. Subsequently, these patients are distributed in the different areas of emergency services, being evaluated by the optional according to the levels of this classification — the choice — and not according to the time of arrival at the emergency service. Thus, with this international classification, known by Manchester, it is ensured that critical and urgent patients are treated before those who are not. In the Emergency Service of the University Hospital Complex of Santiago we attended in 2017 — attending professionals — 154,763. By the way, Mrs. Prado, he says he knows the emergencies that he cares about the day, but he doesn't go out half. Watch out for 400, that is, that data also needs to be corrected. 80% are adults and 20% are paediatric. This means 3,119 emergencies more than in the previous year; an increase at the expense of adult emergencies essentially, more than children, who are stabilized. 15% of the emergency care received, the same percentage as in the previous year, which means more than 23,000 incoming patients and an average of 63 daily incomes. This volume of emergencies is distributed in shifts as follows: in adult emergencies, in turn tomorrow, 45% of urgent care demands are received, in the afternoon shift, 38%, and in the night shift, 16.8%; i.e., 83% of care demands occur during the day, from 8 in the morning to 8 in the evening. In pediatric emergencies, although the proportion remains similar -- 80% during the day and 20% during the night -- it is during the afternoon shift when the demand is higher -- 50%, compared to 30% in the morning. Once the patients were brought, the attendance time, that is, the time to get in touch with the optional, was 47 minutes on average in 2017, compared to the 51 that was in 2018; they were down 4 minutes. That is, there is the right answer; of course, with the magnificent picture of professionals we have, which makes this possible: classification and attention, reducing the number of minutes it takes to complete the assistance. By levels, the most urgent patients — red, level 1 — were treated without any delay; the standard was zero minutes. The orange patients, level two, had a 12-minute wait. Yellows, level three, took 44 minutes. Green patients, level 4, a 51-minute delay — the standard is 120-minutes. And blues, level 5, 78 minutes in average time — standard, 240 minutes —. On the other hand, in the Galego Health Service we are aware of the importance of primary care, which has been able to achieve an emergency resolution level at the continued attention points around 91%-92%. I mean, a very important way to try to reduce emergency service assistance is precisely to give more information to the population, knowing that we have a primary care system that is very resolute. So it's important that you get that information. In addition, we have other programs that allow patients not to have to approach hospitals to be cared for, among them, is the Telea Program, home hospitalization, and of course I cannot forget all the support work that 061 does, both in coordination from the telephone station and from the transfer itself to the hospital centers. [[Hado]] All these statistics mean is that we have the studies we need to be able to act. Urgency is a service that cannot be planned, in the sense that it is a individual decision of the patients, of the citizens, in order to choose that service. Logically, we, with these statistics, what we can do is see the workloads around an average. And the template — which we will then comment on the template that this hospital has — is a template that always has to adapt to the needs. We know that right now, with the increase that occurred during the winter months — the respiratory episodes, the flu and other processes — the templates obviously need to be strengthened. During the week we also know the different incidences, so the template is not the same in the morning as in the evening, but it's not the same in the week as in the weekend. And all of that we have in mind so we can adapt. We have the adult area, as we said earlier, with two triage consultations, 9 consultations and 6 polyvalents—1 for otorrin, 1 for ophthalmology, 1 for psychiatry—, 4 resuscitation boxes, 6 monitoring posts, 20 conventional exploration boxes, 49 observation boxes, with 4 isolation, 20 treatment armchairs, 1 xes and 1 cure room. The pediatric emergency has a triage consultation, three multi-purpose queries, 1 resuscitation room, critics, 7 exploration boxes, and a gypsy room. The one about obstetric and xynecological emergencies also has a query and an exploration box. And as for the equipment, the service is currently equipped with 15 multiparametric monitors, 8 defibrillators, 6 respirators, 4 Bipap equipment for non-invasive ventilation, 9 electrocardiographs, 12 tensimeters, 7 pulseximeters, 4 gasmeters and 1 ultrasound. These equipment has been increasing in recent months with the acquisition of 20 wheelchairs, 10 camels, 3 tensimeters, 3 pulses and 2 electrocardiographs. The equipment will be incorporated according to the needs at every moment and, logically, they will be continually restored, always in function — as I say — of those needs. The staffing of adult emergency personnel has 41 optional, 70 nurses and nurses, 44 ACEAs and 32 janitors. And in the distribution — as I said earlier — logically, we follow what the workloads are. According to the workloads, that distribution is different in the shifts tomorrow morning, in the afternoon shifts and in the evening shifts. And also, as I said, in certain periods, we increased on this template. Thus, this painting has been strengthened over the past few months by the presence of a doctor more in turn in the afternoon, 2 nurses and nurses more in the day shift, 2 ACEA more in the day shift and 1 captor in the afternoon shift. In the CHUS emergencies, we treat more than 400 people as average every day of the year, but we all know that distribution is not even throughout the day, as I said, or over the week or months. That's why this care demand requires an effort according to the specific care needs of our patients. I also mean that comparisons sometimes don't reflect reality. We're talking about what we're comparing with other centers. Obviously, we don't know if the times of reinforcement or non-enforcement are counted, but at this point last year, the action, the number of emergencies attended, in the Coruña, was 174.510, 180,823 in Vigo and 154,763 in Santiago. I mean, there's almost a difference between 20,000 and 30,000 attendances per year, which are the populations of Vilagarcia or Lalin. I mean, we're not talking about the same number of urgent care interventions. We continue to value each day. There's an agency in that hospital that has frequent meetings with workers, with union representatives. And, of course, we're going to continue to assess needs, as I say, not only month by month, but also day by day and week by week, providing what we consider at every moment necessary at this and any of the other hospitals. But the Emergency Services are services that have great workers and that solve many of the problems of citizenship, as indicated by the high qualification that citizens give to these services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u231	Thank you, Counselor. Replica round, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u232	Look at one thing, Counselor, the professionals and this Parliament, the truth is that they deserve a little more respect, I say, like this, because you come here practically repeating the same intervention of the whole past, the truth, to me, is that it is not to respect the workers and workers or this Parliament. [[Applause]] I already know that it bothers you to come to account, I know it bothers you that Parliament exists, I know it bothers you that there is democracy and I know it bothers you that there is public health. You guys... yeah, you're bothering them. [[Murmurs.]] You act as emissaries directly from private health. They're in the Council directly at the saying of private health, they're there like Trojan horses directly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But for now there is Parliament, and for the moment there is public health; for the moment there is public health. Look, what the workers and workers move us is they don't want any more reinforcements or they don't want to come here and say that when there's more work, they have to ask for backup. What they want is to work with a minimum of dignity, because they're not working on boxes, they're not working on a production chain putting screws. They're working with patients, they're working with urgent people, and besides, in emergencies, with people who aren't stabilized, and at any time there can be a stop, there can be anything and they can't be working at the limit. Let's see if they understand it once and for all! It's just that we're inventing here a situation of alarmism, as if it wasn't a real situation and they weren't in the Emergency Services at the limit, asking for reinforcements all the time. They can't be in a situation as if nothing had happened, as if they were in an external query. We're talking about emergencies. I insist that professionals deserve a minimum of job guarantees, they can't be sold every day, and, as they're working, they're sold and sold. They can't be in that limited position all the time, looking after people as if they weren't an emergency service. With the irresponsibility you're showing here, making it okay... do you think if you were in normal conditions they'd be manifesting and they'd be demanding continually improvements? Do you really think that professionals are so irresponsible to be demanding improvements and reporting a situation, if that didn't correspond to the reality of the service? Do you really think they're as irresponsible as they are? Of course, at BNG we don't think so. We think it's because the situation is not only serious, but the next one; otherwise, they wouldn't be doing it. And with his irresponsibility, Mr. Counsellor, with the irresponsibility of the management, with the joint irresponsibility of his counseling, they're putting both the professionals and the professionals at risk and the patients at risk. There are cases in the prosecutor's office and a lot of other matters that don't happen, or that don't know, and then when they do, we'll put our hands on our heads. Of course, at the BNG we're echoing their demands because we don't want any more questions going on. That's why today we ask you, on behalf of workers and workers, to heed your demands so that no more things happen. And, I insist, the demands that are being moved are the minimum issues. They ask for minimum staffing strengths and demand improvements to minimum materials. They're not asking for Asian luxury, nor are they asking for staff supplies above any ratios, but minimum, minimum. And if you had a minimal sensitivity and you really had a bet, even if it was just a little bit, for public health, today you had to commit yourself to saying, yes, this is what you're asking for is minimal issues and we're going to put them into effect within a reasonable minimum period of time. That would be the least I should be committed to here today. And if you don't want to do it here because you think it would be to give us a point of opposition, to BNG, and you don't want to do it, of course, no interest on the part of the BNG that gives us any point; don't do it here and then, in a few days, get in touch with the professionals and do it. Then do it with your little mouth, but take care of the demands, because they are, I insist, minimal questions. Of course, I ask you to do so and not to receive your account, not to do what you did here today, which gives you no matter the suffering of people, who gives you no matter who looks at the service, who gives you the frustration of professionals, who are getting frustrated because of how they work every day. Please add, because they are in a situation of impotence and not being able to provide a minimum quality of care, and do not intend to impose that fraudulent report that nothing happens, that they are with normal ratios, that you can care for health care as they are, because you know perfectly that it's not possible. I ask you to come down from that story and attend to the demands, because they are more than just. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Close this interrogation, Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u234	Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, when there is no argument, you have to resort to insult, because you don't consider me a Democrat simply because you don't fit into your political criteria, I think it's an insult to the intelligence of the people who are here. I've probably spent more hours in my life working for the public health of Galicia, a lot more. [[Applause]] But when you don't study and there's no argument, then you go to insult, disqualification and the others. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I deeply respect the Emergency Services workers. I worked in emergencies and I know it's a service, possibly, of the most difficult there is in a hospital; honestly so. But that doesn't mean that you use the parliamentary route — by the way, instead of addressing your colleagues, it seemed that you were always looking up; I think this is a parliament — when it's a management issue and a union negotiation issue, too, but they want to use it. Why? Just because there is no, because they have no themes; there are no arguments and they want to use any way for anything. Look, let's talk about data, arguments. With the figures I gave you as a number of optionals working in the Emergency Service at the clinic — as I say, it doesn't mean that this is unmovable, and it's never, and it's not, and less in the Emergency Service — with that number of optionals and that number of emergencies, if we divide between 220 working days, 2,992 patients/year, go out to 13.6 patients per optional day. Spanish and world scientific societies working in emergencies and emergencies estimate that an emergency physician can attend -- and it's an average -- to 4,445 emergencies/year. We're here at 2,992. Our optional emergency ratio is substantially lower than that, or similar to the estimate, and of course the ratio is the same for everyone. We, as I say, don't mean that emergencies work exactly the same every day of the year, and that's not the case. And, as I say, the public health system in Galicia has been in the emergency service for many years. We increase areas, increase personnel, increase staffing. You recognized yourself that material is coming, possibly because you had asked for it here — it will surely be for that — but this is a subject, a continuous plan of needs, and, as I say, coverage too, what is needed at every moment to provide the best healthcare service. We're open. The CHUS management team is constantly talking to the workers, to union representatives, and trying to improve that situation. Of course, I think we've made a lot of progress and there's probably a lot to do, too. It's not a picture of saying that everything is perfect, but of course we assume when something doesn't work well and when something works bad, and obviously we're there to fix it. But Sergas' emergency services have a conditioner, which is the one that can't plan at all, because it's an individual initiative, but of course, I think we have to be proud because they are flexible systems that adapt to a different demand. And the way to negotiation, the way to dialogue, the way to improving the conditions of workers and also of public service is always open to us from the Health Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u235	Thank you, Counselor. There's a question to the Government. As you've reported, there's a change in the agenda. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the fulfilment of the obligation of the Government of Greece to defend the environment by controlling the potentially contaminant mining that operates in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u236	Mr. Sánchez García has the floor. Whenever you want. Give a voice to Mr. Sánchez's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u237	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. There's a succession of facts in the last year that clearly show the situation of lack of control over the contaminant activity within the mining sector. I'll show you just a few small examples. November 14, 2017, News: The Prosecutor's Office leads Junta to trial for irregularities and eviction in the San Fins mine. Among the indications of the crime that the Prosecutor's Office sees is the dislosure of the Galician Union, since it did not charge any sanctioning file against the constant contaminating greens in the streams near the San Fins mine for decades — second place the Prosecutor's office for decades—. There's not a single file initiated against that company; a company that reported to an activist that went to pick up samples that demonstrated the contamination of that stream. He was denounced, he had to do that person the work that he didn't do on the board of Galicia, the public administration, play the guy to prove there was pollution. It also transfers the complaint to the Prosecutor's Office in a text indicating that, with two rafts that pose a danger to the environment today, the Galician Union has never urged the recovery and restoration of those rafts that pose that danger. Another fact of this succession, Counsellor: Judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia on 23 November 2017. The Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia fails in favour of the complainants and condemns Junta of Galicia to surrender the information which was denied to these persons for five years requesting the Corcoesto mine file. They were neighbors and neighbors of Corcoesto who were asking for a report on the risk of sterile rafts to be located near their homes. Do you remember, Counselor, that sterile raft of that project that was several times what was the Santiago Bernabeu stadium and that therefore produced an obvious concern in the neighbours and neighbours, that they wanted information and that they were denied by the Council of Galicia? March 2018. The People's Defender sees the passivity of the Union with the slate canisters. You don't act against environmental risks. And also, before that, the village defender, Soledad Becerril, denounced the Galician Junta to the passivity of what the environmental disaster was supposed to be the remains of the exploitation of the Touro mine, which it closed in 1988. And that moves us to a reality where San Fins, Touro, Santa Comba, etc., miners, are polluting and where you are not doing your job of protecting the environment and protecting people's health. Counselor, I don't know if you're aware of that, I don't know if Mr. Tahoces does and undos without you finding out, or you're also in the lobby. But you're what you're doing is letting these companies do without even doing their job, that they have to do other people who are playing the guy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u238	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u239	...to do things that you should do on your own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u240	Thank you. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, we are in the Government and therefore in our condition what we do is as simple as applying the law. And when we talk about mining, we apply the Mining Law of 2008, that law that was passed by the Bipartite, of which now it seems that you just don't trust yourself, and that they want to question it. I don't understand your group's approach when it comes to mining, I don't understand it; it's a strategy of harassment and overthrow, a strategy of transferring a amendment to the whole mining work, making it a question that there is a lack of control over the whole mining activity. Honestly, we disagree logically. I think you should probably speak more clearly. Just as they are against important projects for Galicia, linked to thermal power stations, wind parks, Reganosa itself or the Ence, for surely they should speak a little more clearly, be brave, be honest and say that once again they are against generating wealth in Galicia, taking advantage of our native resources, Mr. Sánchez — our indigenous resources! — and, above all, an area of which 5,000 families live. I'd like your group to have thought about this, because there are about 300 companies that are developing their activity by applying the law and by law. More serious it seems to me that I do not recognize the work of the officials themselves in their follow-up work and therefore applying the rule and fulfilling their functions. I don't understand this strategy, Mr. Sánchez, of trying to confuse access to information with control. Nothing has to do with access to information with the control of mining activity, and I don't understand that intent that you have to confuse the admission of the processing of information with a sentence. I believe that if you want to talk about mining seriously, we have to order the debate, we have to apply the common sense, and from there, logically, to give you an answer to all your ideas. He knows that in the case of Valdeorras slate canisters we are already in touch with the People's Valedor and we have transferred all the information to him. You tell me about San Fins. You should know that mine work is being paralysed. Just like your question tells me about the Touro mine, that there are open sanctioning files about the company's activity. So, I think you have to leave that black story next to Galicia and talk about mining, talk positively, talk about the wealth it brings to mining in Galicia, talk about the job it generates in Galicia, and from there, logically...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u242	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u243	...to comply with the Mining Management Act itself, which was a law approved by the Bipartite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u244	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u245	You tell me to apply the law. Those who have to apply the law are you. When you don't act and you don't have sanctioning files, what you're doing is you're not applying that law, Counselor; don't confuse yourself. Look, I'm not talking to you about accepting any procedure. You come from there? Judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. [[Mr. Sánchez García shows a document.]] He should have fallen in the shame that these people had to spend five years fighting to get the information they should have from the first minute, and you were forcing them to appeal to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. Or does it not seem reasonable to you that these people would like to have a report on the risk of rafts they intended to install, Counselor? Look, I don't make any amends to the whole mining, no, what I want, Counselor, is that we don't pay with money from all the business of a few, because you know what happened in Monte Neme, right? That blew up a raft, and we're still waiting for that company to assume the cost of restoration, which we all pay with money from everyone, right, Counselor? And the company that left the business in 1988 in Touro doesn't pay all the damage they're doing in the streams, which, by the way, go to the Ulla River, which, by the way, reaches the Arousa River and which gives more jobs to the Arousa River only the entire mining sector of Galicia, Counsellor. Why do we have to be bearing two rafts in San Fins that are a risk when I had to pay the company for restoration? Counselor, you tried to divert attention, you didn't answer. You're talking about us messing with the officials. Look, the Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and the People's Defender, they say so. They're talking about lust and passivity. They're saying that no sanctioning files have been launched. What you have to explain is whether this is because of your incompetence or because you are working for the interests of these companies, because, in view of these facts, which are made, which are judgments, which are documents of the Ombudsman of the People...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u246	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u247	...you have to clarify that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u248	Thank you very much. Close the question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u249	Mr. Sánchez, I'll have to talk a little bit slower, because, of course, if I tell you that in the Touro mine we opened two sanctioning files and you say we didn't open sanctioning files, because logically, we have a little problem, simply to keep a dialogue with a certain common sense. You're in that position to veto mining in Galicia, and it's ahead of you that at all we admit that. We believe in sustainable mining, we believe in a 21st century mining. You are anchored in the 20th century in mining and, unfortunately, in that context, it is very difficult to maintain this dialogue. You're actually telling me about San Fins and telling me about crime signs. Let him logically investigate the prosecutor's office what he has to investigate, but he knows the work of the San Fins mine is being paralysed. Tell me about Monte Neme, about a raft. He didn't break any raft, he knows it wasn't a raft, he knows it was the exploiting hole. We need to talk to some property, because if you don't, you just want to confuse, and that's what I think the Greeks, of course, don't deserve it. It's not the same, Mr. Sánchez. I understand that logically, you don't like listening to reality, you don't like listening to the data, but surely, if you had left me, you would have moved that we've reached a commitment to the People's Defender and to the People's Valator himself here in Galicia. And in the case of Valdeorras, the People's Defender himself, of Spain, thanked the collaboration of the Galician Union, because we are collaborating with the People's Valedor itself. If you logically do not accept that, in fact, the Government and the Valedor of the People are collaborating, logically, we have a problem simply ordering the debate. You talk to me too... well, you don't talk to me, but I'm going to put a case of access to information, because there's recently been a complaint against the United Nations precisely because of a lack of access to information. Curiously, it's spoken as if it were a sentence, when it's an admission to the proceedings, but I'm going to give you a data. These people have been making the documentation available since December last year. You know what happened? We're waiting for you to consult. Where is the transparency interest of certain people, who ask for information from the Administration, if they make it available and then simply not consult it? We will continue to work with maximum transparency, and logically, giving citizens all the information...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u250	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u251	...but, Mr. Sánchez, defending mining and defending the mining sector, which you, unfortunately, are not doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u252	You've finished your shift. Thank you. [[Mr. Puy Fraga asks for the floor.]] Mr. Puy, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u253	I call for the floor in accordance with Rule 77, which sets out the request for compliance with the Rules of Procedure at any time during the plenary meeting. And I do so in connection with Article 105, which calls for a call to order when some member of this House misses the decor of some institution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u254	Yes, Mr. Puy. Got it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u255	During this session we saw the photo of the chief of state, as well as of the former chief of state, that is, the king and his father, the king emeritus, Mr. Juan Carlos. It is clear that we respect the freedom of expression all over the world, but we understand that that freedom of expression cannot be used — and much less in Parliament's rostrum — to offend those who symbolize the union of Spain, who symbolize the 1978 democratic Constitution and who represent all the Spaniards we believe in that democratic standard. So, Mr President, let me make it clear what our complaint is and we ask that these kinds of events not only cannot be repeated again, but also that if they come out of the appropriate legal consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u256	Thank you, Mr. Puy. We'll take note. And in that sense, I also ask all of you to make it easier for us — because it's not easy to preside at times — and to cooperate with us. We suspended the session and in five or seven minutes, Speaker's board. Thank you. The session is suspended until 4:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u257	We resumed the session. We're continuing the interrogations. Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the loss of purchasing power of pensions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u258	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u259	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. "The public authorities shall ensure, through adequate and periodically updated pensions, the economic adequacy of citizens during the age of age. Likewise, and regardless of family obligations, they will promote their well-being through a system of social services that will address their specific health, housing, culture and leisure problems." You recognize that, don't you, Counselor? He knows perfectly well that it is Article 50 of the Spanish Constitution. You also know, Mr Counsellor, that the Toledo Pact, which was formed in 1995, established a mechanism for defending the social security system, and that the proposals in this Toledo Pact, among others, were: separation and clarification of funding sources, creation of the Social Security Reserve Fund, maintenance of the purchasing power of pensions, and strengthening the principle of contribution as a basic element for the preservation of the financial balance of the system itself. Mr. Counsellor, yesterday I said it and today I repeat it again: socialist men and women feel very proud of our public pension system, one of the basic pillars of the public welfare system; a system of welfare driven and guaranteed during socialist governments. This public pension system allowed a reserve fund for Social Security to be provided in a decade of over 66,000 euros during the Government of José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero. [[Applause]] And I repeat that again, I am glad that the Members of the People's Party know and have internalized it. You know, Counsellor, that pensions during these years of crisis acted as a vertebrate element of society and allowed the cohesion of citizenship. The People's Ombudsman's Memory 2017 says that the pension system was transcendental during the years of crisis. Say it or the Ombudsman. Counsellor, you know that in 2011, in the full election campaign, Mr. Mariano Rajoy — the head of his party — once again lied to all citizenship, all Spanish and all Spanish. So, in an interview on November 5, 2011, he said, "I'm going to scissor all but education, health and pensions.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh He's obviously already put his hands on education, he's already taken care of health care, and now he's holding hands, or scissors in this case, on pensions. The reality is that the People's Party, once it begins to rule from 2012, agrees with its ideology, and simply using the crisis as a justification for applying its ideology, initiates a government action, and what it takes are totally regressive measures that undermine the dignity of our country's men and women pensioners. First adopts a Royal Decree Law, 16/2012, of pharmaceutical co-op. So the first discount of purchasing power for pensioners. Then they pass continuous decrees of laws which eliminate certain medicines from the pharmaceutical catalogue of Social Security. So 8 euros on one side, and start paying the full payment of those drugs for the second. Second downgrade of the purchasing power of pensioners in our country. Thirdly, they pass a royal decree that tightens the conditions of access to retirement, and if not enough, they unilaterally approve Law 23/2013, in which they regulate the sustainability factor and the rate of re-evaluation of the public pension system of Social Security. You know perfectly well, Counsellor, that this law affects pensions that are managed from the year 2019 and the pension revaluation system, establishing an update modality that imposes a loss of purchasing power on pensioners and hence their impoverishment. You know perfectly well that Article 7 amends the revaluation of pensions and decouples prices. Therefore, in positive inflation scenarios, the purchasing power of pensioners and pensioners in this country will be assured. The PP approves a 0.25% sustainability factor, which will assume that with a 2% inflation — which is the goal set by the European Central Bank — we, the Socialists, have not fixed it — pensioners will lose more than 17% of real purchasing power in ten years. And in twenty years, more than 30%, more than 30% of real purchasing power are pensioners and pensioners. The truth is that the ideology of the People's Party is hiding behind all this, because you conceive pensions as a expense and not a right. They don't understand it as a citizenship right. Counselor, I'm going to give you data, real data that you can consult at any time; all the data we bring are from official sources. Government of the People's Party, Mariano Rajoy, in front of the Government of the Socialist Party, José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero. Data 2012-2017: the structural deficit in Social Security accounts increased by more than EUR 9 billion. The reserve fund — as usual called the pension fund — and for the same years, 2012-2017, in five years falls in more than 55,000 million euros. Minimum retirement pension with a spouse in charge, 2005-2011, seven years of government of Mr. José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero — Socialist Government — is increased to EUR 257.11 plus a month. Seven years, the same period, Counsellor, exactly the same period, during Mr. Mariano Rajoy's Government, rises to EUR 46.90. That is, the fifth part of what was increased during the time of a socialist government. Counselor, that's the difference. This is the reality, the PP doesn't believe in the public pension system. But look, Counselor, I will also bring you data from Galicia, data from the reality of men and women pensioners in Galicia; data that you can consult perfectly, published by the Ministry of Employment and Social Security for Galicia, March 2018. I'm also bringing him here so he can't doubt our sources. Galicia, EUR 144 less than the average in the State contribution pension. Less than 144. Galicia occupies the place 18 of 19, 18 of 19!, where are all autonomous communities and Ceuta and Melilla. It's just behind the stremadura. 28% of the total population in Galicia are pensioners, and you know that the number of Social Security affiliates is, in February 2018, 976,816 people. By the way, the best data from this last historical series, date of July 2008, 1,090,752. July 2008. He's back with Zapatero's government. Don't laugh. I, if you like, then I'll leave the report to you to read it, if you haven't had a chance. Therefore, Counsellor, the state as a whole requires 1,92 contributors for each pensioner, and in Galicia 1,29 contributors for each pensioner. That's what we got! And in Ourense, in Ourense province, nine years are spent where the number of pensioners is greater than the number of contributors. Counsellor, in the interpellation made by another opposition group in the previous plenary you pointed out as an important solution to solving this problem by increasing employment and improving the quality of employment. The Socialists are fully in agreement with what you have pointed out, but I'm going to say: the reality is that since the People's Party has been in power since 2009, eight uninterrupted years of Mr. Núñez Feijóo, we have lost 85,000 inhabitants; the number of homes with all its members unemployed is increased by 16,300 more; the number of homes without income is increased by 15,200 more; the number of unemployed is increased by 14,500 more; and the number of unemployed by 86,400. Get down, Counselor! And the type of contracts this past year is that in Galicia there were 10,376 contracts, but look, 7.9% were undefined and 92% were temporary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u260	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u261	...and no longer enter the temporal analysis. I'll just give you a piece of information — and I'm done, Mr President, thank you very much. With this data and with your assertions, I will give you a note that is regrettable — that I hope it will be in all media tomorrow — that your Government, the Galician Union, will let it go unimplemented — pay attention, please — in section 32, Employment promotion and labour market institutions — better Members and Members of the People's Party when they hear it not so much — in 2013, 98 million; 2014, 84 million; 2015, 124 million; 2016, 100 million; and in the last year, 2017, 133 million, with a 56% execution. I mean, 529 million euros that in five years they left out of execution for job promotion and labour market institutions. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u263	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I would like to point out is that I have already had an opportunity to refer to this issue in the last plenary session on 21 March, although we now have new information, which I think is very relevant, with concrete figures of the greatest increase expected for pensioners, which can benefit many of the Greek pensioners. So in the first part of my presentation, I will reiterate to you what the position of the Government of Greece on this subject is, and then I will try to update the information beyond what we have in connection with the last plenary session, which, as I say, is quite relevant. The Greek Government, as it is known, has no direct competence on this issue which is being raised to us: the re-evaluation of contributions. It's a state policy, not an autonomous one, but since the German Government, of course, we're very sensitive and we understand the anxiety that pensioners have in relation to the public pension system. Precisely, because of that concern of a very important part of our society, it would be very positive that the group you represent has agreed that the final objective must be to maintain the sustainability of the current public pension system, which is a good system; if I may, it is a very good system. As a socialist honourable Member he knows perfectly well that a pension model transcends any government, because pensions do not pay them this government or any other government, it is a matter of state. How can we make the current system sustainable? Through two essential aspects I've had occasion to comment on in this House three weeks ago, and what you also referred to in your first intervention: with more and better employment, and with higher wages too, I added. But also, secondly, with agreements within the framework of the Toledo Pact. At the first point, I want to reiterate that in Galicia, as a Government, we are putting forth all our effort to make the job that is believed to be growing, of better quality and with higher wages. This effort is corroborated by very recent data, which proves a clear recovery in the last year. We have more indefinite and full-time contracts; indefinite contracts have increased in the last year by 15.8%, and 3 out of every 4 contracts in Galicia are indefinite. Full-time contracts went up by 13.7%; and in Galicia 9 out of 10 busy people work full-time. Salaries are also well behaved, in fact, the last known data places Galicia as the second autonomous community where wages increased, both by month and by effective time, around 4%, when the state average is at 1%. And why do we put so much emphasis on employment and its quality? Because more and better employment, with better wages, leads to more and better pensions for our elders, by increasing contributions by broadening their base. But this measure must be complemented by structural reforms to ensure the future sustainability of the current pension model. And here I am connected with the second aspect necessary to provide agreements within the framework of the Toledo Pact. Today, no serious economist maintains that the current public pension system can continue to lend itself under the same conditions as in the past. And that's because our public system is of a contributing nature and tries to secure replacement income over a certain percentage of wages received. Your Honor, we can all understand that the application of the sustainability factor causes dissatisfaction when it involves a revaluation of pensions under the IPC. But what we can no longer understand are some criticisms, in this case of a socialist honourable Member, the party that most of the time ruled in Spain and which not only started reforms of the pension model, but even froze all the pensions of all the Greeks. That all of our elders know, and they don't forget, and I don't think they'll forget. Faced with this, in the reforms of the People's Party, pensions were shielded by law so that they would rise every year, so that no other socialist government could freeze them again. That's why let me tell you that it's not understandable, as a militant from a party that in the Government has taken much more drastic measures to contain the expense of Social Security, which are now targeting demagogic measures. [[Murmurs.]] Be responsible, you don't want to transfer the feeling that there are easy solutions to such a complex problem. As I listened to her very carefully, I was thinking that any German pensioner who was attending this debate would not be able to distinguish between the arguments of Mrs En Marea Verao in the past Plenary and those you did a moment ago. In a matter as important as pension matters, it's hard to distinguish between En Marea and PSdeg, because you use the same demagogy and populism. I'm telling you this because you seem to have selective memory to talk only about the measures from 2013 onwards to ensure the sustainability of pensions. I'll remind you of some questions you don't mention. It was also the former Socialist Government which introduced into our system in 2011 the figure of the sustainability factor with the objective of maintaining the proportionality between contributions to the system and expected benefits of the system and ensuring its sustainability. It did so through, as has already been said, Law 27/2011, of 1 August, on the updating, adequacy and modernization of the social security system. And he basically did three things: expanding retirement age to 67 years, expanding the period of years for the calculation of the pension and introducing the figure of the sustainability factor. Do you agree with these measures or deny them? It would be nice if you needed it. What the current Government of Spain did — in addition to not questioning the reform of Law 27/2011 — was to continue to make decisions to ensure the sustainability of the system, with an objective: to maintain proportionality between contributions to the system and expected benefits, ensuring, both to present and future generations, adequate pensions and sufficient pensions in accordance with the mandate of Article 50 of the Spanish Constitution, where you began your first intervention. Your Honor, it is clear that the pension system and its future viability is one of the main priorities for the Government of Spain and one of the great concerns of citizens. That is why I reiterate to you that we must leave the demagogy and the parties side by side and seek consensus within the framework of the Toledo Pact Commission. Among all of us we have to come up with viable, equitable and solidarity solutions — I insist — without demagoxy. We have a proposal: consensus in the Toledo Pact on measures to ensure the viability of the system and to prioritise higher minimum pensions and widowhood pensions. What's your proposal? Because the PSOE is asking for pensions to go up the IPC line, and with government budgets, lower pensions are going up a lot above the IPC, and yet it refuses to support this measure. It's hard to explain. Ladies and gentlemen, the recent state budgets include an increase in pension expenditure of EUR 5.188 million. And, additionally, the general re-evaluation of all pensions is spent more than 1 billion euros to raise the lowest and widow's pensions. In particular, IRPF deductions are increased for pensioners who enter between EUR 12,000 and EUR 18,000; they rise by 3% of minimum pensions; they rise by 1.5% of pensioners who do not exceed EUR 700 and 1% of pensioners who exceed EUR 860. And widows and widows who don't get extra approaches will have an increase of 2%. Since the Greek Government we support these measures because they will benefit in a very special way the Greeks, both by the high weight of the retired population on the total of our community from the Spanish average and by the lowest amount of average we have. State budgets will allow half a million German pensioners to benefit from these increases. I therefore hope that the Socialist Party will be responsible for this and in the parliamentary processing of these budgets some Members will allow them to go ahead. It would be an excellent news and opportunity to see if what they say matches what they do, allowing this budget to exist so that this climb can materialize. Reiterate: half a million German pensioners are waiting for approval from state budgets to be able to have this climb that I have just commented on. The Government of the Union, of course, supports the materialization of this best climb of pensions, such as those 500,000 at least Welsh and Welsh. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u264	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u265	Counsellor, the Socialists already know that you have no competence here, but, when a government is elected, we understand that the Government must ensure the well-being, in this case, of Galician men and women pensioners, that's why they've chosen them! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Then defend us! [[Applause]] Of course we don't agree with the pension system that defends the People's Party! Obviously! And data is just giving you, and I'm just giving you reasons. And we're never going to agree when what you're looking for is charity and not dignity in the pensions of the men and women of this country. You're looking for charity. You're still defending a 0.25% rise, which I've already shown you in practice is a loss of purchasing power for all pensioners. You tell me they're looking for -- and I told you before we agreed -- a higher salary and a better job quality. But I repeat and I would like you to insist on a data you gave before, why does it leave Galician Union, in five years, without running 539 million euros in promotion of employment and labour market institutions? Why? [[Applause]] Does it not seem to you, your entire Government and the Members of the People's Party, that something will have to see your inaction, your passatism and not use this money, so that we stop having 66,500 homes with all your members unemployed? [[Applause]] Won't they have anything to do with the policies of the People's Party or the lack of execution of those things that they say on paper but that they never do after? You're the art of doing what they do. They do it over and over again. When you tell me about the type of contract I'll tell you about the type of new contract. Don't meddle! I know perfectly well what I'm talking about, and so do you. You can also consult: Ministry of Employment and Social Security, January 2018, 10,376 contracts, 7,9 indefinite, 7.9 new contracts!, 92% temporary, Counsellor. And besides, you know perfectly well what typology they have these temporals, which are sometimes for an hour or a day. And we're not going into that anymore. You're telling me about demagogy. But, look, I think I just gave you data, not demagogy. Yes, I may be wrong, I didn't go to that master's at King Juan Carlos and then I'm wrong from time to time because I'm a rasa economist, I don't have any master's, what a dick! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] But look, Mr. Counsellor... — I know they're apologizing and getting sick — I can show you the increase in the minimum retirement pension with a married couple in charge between 2004 and 2017. [[Murmurs.]] The red is from the Socialist Party — the red — it is 257 euros more in the pension of all Spanish pensioners while the socialists ruled. While Mr. Rajoy's seven years, which is what's in blue, 46.90, a fifth, Counselor. These are data, these are realities. And if I tell you about the evolution of the Social Security Reserve Fund, to see who's betting the most, of course, on the reserve fund, red becomes the Socialist Party again. Don't be mistaken, don't be wrong, we left you 66,815 million euros and we're at 8,095, okay? [[Murmurs.]] This is reality, this is data, they like it or they don't like it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u266	Answer the counselor later. This is a debate. Then answer the counselor and he'll listen too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u267	But look, Mr. Counsellor, the forecasts, unfortunately, are still much more discouraging... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u268	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u269	Mr. Tellado, you answered me yesterday.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u270	Quiet, Mr. Tellado. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, on your subject. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We have guests upstairs, please. We have children's audience and we use to greet them. Yeah, I'm glad to say hello, let's take this into account. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u271	Good afternoon, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u272	They're students of the Fray Luis College of Granada...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u273	All right, well, good afternoon everyone and all the assistants...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u274	... of Sarria, Lugo, of the fifth of primary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u275	...and so can you learn...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u276	...who are greeting us and listening to us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u277	...what is the social reality of our country. Welcome, pension policy will also affect you, so you're in a perfect debate. [[Murmurs.]] In the short and long-term projection of the IGE -- you know that in the short term is 2031, and in the long term 2050 -- unfortunately, the forecasts for Galicia are even worse, because they tell us that the population over 65 is going to increase by more than 11 points in Galicia -- more than 11 points! -- and that the population between 20 and 64 is going to fall by almost 11 points. It's the IGE projections. [[Murmurs.]] I know they don't like official data, but that's the data we handle, that's the projections. And that life expectancy from here to 2050 will increase in four more years, so, from retirement -- if things go well for those who can enjoy it -- they'll have 25 more years as a half. So it's a very important problem that doesn't solve with patches or approve half-year budgets that will affect only a part of the population, and it's not exactly those that have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u278	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u279	...lower pensions. You never look at those who have the lowest pensions, you look at those who have the highest pensions. Yesterday Mr. Tellado, in his speech, was talking about pension plans, and then explaining to him, taking a coffee, that the problem isn't that socialists have pension plans, we have all the right of the world, or is it the people of the People's Party's heritage?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u280	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u281	Is it the heritage of the People's Party?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u282	It's over, it's over...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u283	The problem is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u284	Finish, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u285	...for those people who are going to have a pension of misery, not to say otherwise, and will not be able to have a pension plan. That's the big problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Thank you very much. Close this interrogation, Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u287	Good afternoon again. Thank you, Mr. President. I'd already told you a little while ago, in my first speech, the tone you used to make your speeches, but you call me very much attention to your speech -- I told you before -- by the similarity that you have with someone else that I heard three weeks ago. And besides being a very used one, I recognize it, it doesn't cost me anything, I have enough humility, as most of the group that supports the Government, in recognizing the great contribution of the PSOE to the public pension system. But, as I say this, you will also have to recognize with me that the first adjustments, and of a very important magnitude, the only time pensions were frozen in Spain, are fruit from that side of the bench. So, it seems to me to remember that we have to put everything to its proper measure and not start to waste each other's caressing because — I repeat again — we are facing one of the great problems facing Spanish society, especially when we're talking... — that you never say, you put your hand on it, and now I'm going to refer to it, from your demagogy manual,...no one talks here that we're specifically talking about 760,000 Welsh people who charge pensions. That's what we're talking about. In so many numbers he gave, it turns out he didn't give one that is the magnitude of our pensioners. Put them in value, take them very seriously and not just when there's a certain level of mobilization. [[Applause]] I think the Greeks don't understand that, on the one hand, if they're talking about IPC, IPC, IPC and, on the other hand, I'm talking about more than 66% of our pensioners, where the government's offer, through state budgets, and on the other hand they go out, if they don't get out of the contributions, they go out of what we all put together, they also have to tell new people what the sustainability factor means, that they'll hear a lot about it in the coming years; because they'll hear that the balance is not only achieved with certain automations and simplicitys like the ones we've been giving, but there has to be, first, a generational balance, because today's pensions are with today's taxpayers. That's also what I'm going to say about the time I have left. So I invite you to reflect on each other and, at least, be calm enough to realize that there is an offer made by the Government of Spain in the Budget Act this year that improves in more than 500,000 people above the expected IPC. So you have to say this in a very clear way, to see if people are going to shut up too, not because they're bigger, they're less understanding than others, and they're not as simple as some of the messages you're trying to move. A real demagogy manual you used. First of all, the so demonized People's Party. PP only has negative values, even in the tone used by you. A little more maturity. The trick of cheating. You're talking about what you're supposed to know. Totally incomplete information and numerical demagogy. [[Murmurs.]] Use the numbers on a theme so complex just to give four dabs a question of similar magnitude. And it obviously raises false dilemmas: good-bad, regular, there is no, no tones, nor are we going to try to do among us all, through the agreement in the Covenant of Toledo, where there are not only political parties, but also trade union and business organizations, to try to agree. That's the way, let's put it all down. Because as long as they refer here to the various reforms, in the last reform, which contains the sustainability factor, there is a central issue that is never explained enough in such a complex issue, which is transparency. Let's talk about everything, let's put it all blank so that people, on a generational balance in the medium term, take all of this into account, not just certain statistical extrapolations that the IGE can have to say whether the population of Galicia is going to be A, B or C. That we already knew about it ten years ago! [[Murmurs.]] By the way, it does not manipulate the data when here, boasting certain graphs, it presents the great achievement of the Socialist Party, when it must be taken into account, for example, that in 2008 — it seems to me that the Socialist Party ruled — the average pension in Galicia turns out to be 83.4% of what was in Spain. In 2009, 83.5%. Interestingly, in 2012 the average pension is 83.9%, plus, in a People's Government party. But today, after all this data chain that came here in an interesting and totally torturing way, we're at 84.6%. As far as I know, 84.6% is higher than 83.4%, than 83.5% or 83.6%. I mean, don't mix the numbers because it's not true. [[Applause]] The most important, the most important — I repeat again — are positive measures in the Budget Act for this year, which is being dealt with in Congress, which in particular means that there is an increase of 3% of minimum pensions. I suppose that's superior to the IPC, which I think this year the calculations are approaching between 1.5 and 1.6 if I don't get corrected by Mr. Lago, who usually throws more of this kind of theme. And that's the official data. I also suppose that widows and widows without people in charge, who have 2%, will be above the expected IPC. And so on. More than 500,000 Galicians and Greeks are waiting for. Let's be consistent, let's talk about everything quietly. You have the data, and we, we put it, the Toledo Pact, and we keep walking. That's the way to be, I think they should. And why is he changing all this? It's changing all this since 2015 because there's a change in the economy, in the whole of Spain and Galicia, which is manifested in more and better jobs. I've already told you, in terms of more employment, it's now 25,751 memberships more than a year ago. That's positive.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u288	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u289	As well as wages are at 3.77, 3.2 points above the Spanish average, and also in the young population. As well as that composition of indefinite and full-time contracts. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u290	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u291	And let me tell you before you finish something, that the most important thing is that, act positively...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u292	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u293	...let's put together within the Toledo Pact what we have to put on, correct, but above all, let's go to intergenerational sustainability, which is what it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u294	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u295	Support the budgets.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u296	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u297	By the way, we'll talk about budget execution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u298	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u299	What's so sad is coming here to bring totally partial figures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u300	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u301	...and don't know what rides one exercise on another. That's the first public auction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u302	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u303	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u304	Thank you. We move on to point seven of the agenda, which corresponds... [[Mr Rodríguez Rumbo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, why do you want the floor? This debate is over. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] 76? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, and what was the indecoration? No, no, quiet. [[Protests.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, please, be quiet. Quiet. What is the lack of decorum in the House? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, shut up. That's what the Presidency does to you. You have to know the rules, eh! What exactly is the lack of decorum? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u305	Mr. Counsellor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u306	Quiet, Mr. Trenor, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u307	The Counsellor doubts the information given by this honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u308	Well, that's the debate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u309	Sorry, wait, wait, wait...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u310	No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u311	Because he told me that was learned first from Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u312	That's not missing the decor. It happens constantly in this House, some question some data and others. It's over, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] As I said before, we moved on to agenda seven, you ask the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u313	We begin with the question of Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Question by Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the information of the Government of Greece on the deadlines for the bidding and execution of the project of environmental dredging of the Burgo River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u314	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u315	Good afternoon. In March last, in the plenary, Madam Counsellor, since the Socialist Parliamentary Group we asked you about the regeneration of the background of the Pontevedra River and I think we have received long. Today we ask you that knowledge specifically has the Government of Greece on the deadlines for bidding and execution of the environmental dredging project in the Burgo River. And we have put this question to you for your oral answer, Counsellor, in this plenary, before the successive evasive responses received in writing by your advisor, in which, without prejudice to these evasives, what if it was literally said is that the Council of Galicia will, as it cannot be otherwise, ensure that all commitments acquired with the Burgo River are fulfilled and that the budgets run all the essential for the development of this action. It was also literally said that the goal of the Greek Government is that dredging is a reality in the shortest possible time. Is this the answer, Counselor, which you can give to this House today and which you can give to the seafarers who accompany us from Burgo's laugh? Because, Counsellor, in 2013, which is precisely the year in which the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament issued that report on the state of the Galician rivers, that year in which that visit of parliamentarians sank their feet into the Burgo River, the year in which the Ministry of the Environment had begun the drafting, if that year, of the dredging project. Having this project finished in July 2016, depending on the initial forecasts, it wasn't until September last year when the ministry declared the environmental impact of this project, that is, four years behind schedule. On November 16, 2017, the Central Government, in response to our group in the Senate, indicated that it was still modifying and adapting the project to the conditions set out in the environmental impact declaration, and that, even then, once modified, it would be necessary to agree with the administrations involved in co-financing the work, obviously prior to initiating the bidding of these actions. And the central government also said, to finish, in that question received in the Senate, literally, that that's why you can't give start dates for these jobs. Counsellor and lords, in the 1980s in the Burgo River, worked more than 2,000 seafarers and seafarers. Today the productive capacity of the Burgo River is below 20%. Today there are no more than 60 sailors on foot in the Burgo creek. The declaration of environmental impact collected 281,000 cubic metres of sediment in the Burgo River, 161,000 toxic cubic metres, which must be confined to two rafts, one smaller, on the banks of Oleiros, and another, as you know, larger, on the banks of Culleredo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u316	Please put the question to you. Ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u317	We're talking about 300,000 people affected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u318	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u319	That's why we ask you, Counselor, if really with that million euros that budget the state for 2018 really believes, as I said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u320	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u321	...that they can carry out this project of environmental regeneration of the Burgo River.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u322	Thank you, Mr. Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u323	Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u324	Thank you. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u325	Thank you very much, President. First of all, expressly greet the sailors who accompany us today. As you know, Your Honor, I know the sector very well. I don't say I personally know these seafarers, but I did have the honor of working with them in the Government of Galicia as the delegate of this council, and therefore I know the situation in which Burgo's laugh has been found since 2002. In fact, he could even claim that in the 1980s, 2,000 people worked in the river wasn't true, because the Permex had been given since 1991, which is just how much the shellfish work is officialized in our community. But, beyond making that appreciation, what if you do not doubt, Your Honor, is that, if you want to have a concrete answer, if you want no one to give it far away, you know very well, better than me, than whoever has to address is the one who has the competition in this case of dredging. You and your training have a representation in the Congress of Deputies, where I hope that, in addition to being accompanied by the sailors, you will also ask the same question to those who have the competence. Meanwhile, the Galician Union does what it does is to develop its competences with rigor and diligence as it reaches the sanitation, rather than the dredging, to the sanitation of the Burgo's creek. This is not the question of who is responsible for one thing or another, because it is obvious that the honourable Members and the honourable Members know the powers of the Government of Galicia. And of what there is no doubt, and I share also with you, is that, indeed, human pressure on this creek, since the 1970s especially, has done a lot of damage. And indeed, we have had in some way to be removed from the European Union in 2013 so that we can put among all of the things we have to put, which is our budget on investment, in the case of the Galician Union, of its competence, which is sanitation. It was this political formation, the People's Party, and I repeat again, it was this political formation, the People's Party, which did all the actions that were contemplated in the plan of healing the Burgo River. I'm talking in particular about 13 events and 67 incidents that we have developed over the past few years between the four municipalities that mainly pour into this creek and this council. In particular, the two actions that end in that sanitation plan, I point out again, the competence of the Galician Union, so that no one is wrong, that one thing is to clean up the river and the other is to clean up the mud, that sanitation plan ends this advisor, on his own will, with two actions that today are being executed in the Burgo River, with an investment of more than 6 million euros, in a bomb and in a storm tank. Of course, these are the efforts we have to make to move forward in the commitment that the Government of Galician Union, and I as advisor, have with this laugh. And he's also done an important job by the Town Councils...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u326	Thank you. Thank you, Counselor, you have a shift later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u327	...that, in fact, they now put the laugh in a situation of low-income children. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u328	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u329	Thank you. Mrs. Mato, you won't notice that you personally don't know, but since you've had responsibilities in the fishing delegation, you didn't really know about the boat crew. But I suppose it's part, sometimes, of evading responsibilities. We are fully aware that the project is an initial competition from the Ministry of the Environment, a macro-ministery at present. I suppose that this is why it is not enough with so many competences: agriculture, fisheries, food and the environment, and the environment needs a specific weight. And we asked — that is why I told you that we received another evasive response from the Ministry of the Environment — to our Congress group, but it is that the ministry itself speaks of an action that must be co-financed by the public administrations involved, and among them is precisely the Junta de Galicia and the Government of Mr Feijóo. This is the action map currently published by the Ministry of the Environment on the Coruña coast, by the demarcation. There is no action planned beyond Sada's, which, by the way, are giving up. So, I really don't know what commitments are made in the area of the environment and the regeneration of the river by the governments of the People's Party. Counsellor, you've told us about the ability to run on sanitation. We really doubt that capacity, and therefore also in the Burgo River, for which we are asking for budget budgets in the process of budgetary debate, in amendments, of 2.5 million, which they refused. Actually, if we go to the data, we're called attention to how that ability of execution by your advisor can put on the screen precisely all these kinds of environmental regenerating actions in the Welsh rivers and also in the Burgo's laugh. We just checked how in terms of environmental action function 54, in 2017, it was in a 65% execution, they left 42 million euros unspent. And by setting an example, I think it's very serious, in program 542A...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u330	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u331	...hydrological planning, left 12% dead, spent only 4 of 38 million.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u332	Your time is up. Thank you. Close this question, Environmental Advisor and Territory Planning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u333	Beyond the execution, I believe that those who live in the Coruña, and in the corner of the Coruña, not only see the execution, but might even say that we are suffering it, because, indeed, we even have cuts in the streets — in particular those of Oleiros — precisely by the execution of these works. So I think that's an absolutely palpable reality -- I insist -- because this advisor wanted to bid more than 6 million euros last year for this year to be a reality and end. Beyond that, and not by giving any kind of evasive or much less, the Galician Union is strictly committed to the Burgo River, and the Galician Union also demands the rest of the administrations that fulfil those commitments. Obviously, I as an adviser had the opportunity to be in the office of the minister recently, in the month of January, and to speak to the minister, to ask him to have an increase in the State Government's commitment to the Burgo's laugh in the case of the dredging of the funds of this laugh, and that commitment, today, is a reality, since it has multiplied by three the State Government's investment commitment in this creek. Where you say there was a million euros, actually last year they were engaged seven, and now they're engaged, for the next three years, 24 million euros. I will urge the ministry to make that investment happen as soon as possible, in the same way that I will also urge you to believe that commission in which, as your political group in Madrid answered, we actually have to create a commission because we all have to see where that environmental commitment really is with Burgo's laugh. I mean, here all sitting together, the ministry, the Galician board and all the municipalities, we'll see if that environmental commitment to Burgo's laugh is real or just a whisper, because we all have to talk here. And, of course, the Galician Union is going to sit down, if the municipalities sit down, and they're going to commit even more, if they also commit to the municipalities. But that's where we all have to be. I insist, no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. The Government of the Union works with facts, as is the reality of these two investments that come to complete the entire sanitation of the waters of the Burgo River, and of course I will demand that with the utmost speed, in the coming months to be possible, be a reality the closure of the completion of the sanitation project, of the mud drain project, so that it can be called immediately, and I will also tell the ministry that I immediately call that table where we will all have the opportunity to face it, if we have it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u334	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and four other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Galician Board for the Heritage Protection of the Footway Access to the Castle of Monterrey
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u335	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rodríguez, today since the BNG we want to transfer to you a series of doubts and concerns about the heritage situation and the preservation of one of the important elements of the fortress of the Castle of Monterrey, its access path. As you know, when we talk about Monterrey Castle, we're not only talking about one of the largest fortified villages in our country, already declared in 1931 a monument by the state and with BIC conservation right now. We also speak of the history of an outrage, the history of the political heritage for privatized and sponsored purposes by the Government of the People's Party, because you, against the social will, against the criteria of several universities and entities such as the Galician Council of Culture or the Academy of Fine Arts, after an important public investment, handed over to the Paradores of the State this Greek heritage, formerly public, for nothing but seventy-five years. Since the BNG, as you know, we do not agree with this use, and the passage of time confirms, unfortunately, firstly, that it does not have a positive impact on the economic dynamization of the region; and secondly, that what you have done was bumpy. We have warned on several occasions that you were starting home by the roof, that there was a poor cataloguing of this heritage asset and the still pending need on the table that, in character prior to any performance, you had made a more rigorous planning. But, beyond the uses, we wanted and we want guarantees. A protection that we understand goes far beyond the castle itself, to each and every one of the singular elements that make up this jewel. You, as I say, started the house on the roof. First the breaker and then the rest. And those dusts we have these muds. You haven't made the right planning on the real road, on this walk, and now the need for works to provide basic services to the parking lot leads to a closed private facility today, but, above all, a lot of anxiety at this moment between the vicinity of Monterrey as to what will be done with the walk. It was not surprising that at the time of acting on what is a real path they had found archaeological findings and had encountered intervention problems, and precedents were worrying. I have here an image to show you what the state of the shoe is. You can see perfectly the concrete, you can see perfectly how the rain and the passage of time expose the layers of sand that were used for the passage of heavy trucks, and you can see, if you talk to the people of Monterrey, the doubts that exist right now. We don't want mere cement or just layers of sand for the real road...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u336	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u337	...what we want is an alternative of protection, so we ask you today what you will do to ensure that protection.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u338	Thank you. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u339	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Presas, we agree with the Block in which the Monterrey enclosure is a place of undeniable historical relevance, unquestionable landscape beauty, unquestionable cultural and historical value. Great lines lived there: the Eye, the Fonseca... he was the protagonist at star moments in our history, in the War of Independence itself. It's been a top-level cultural focus. That's where the first incognizable Welshman, Missale Auriense, who is right now in Ourense Cathedral, wrote. But, of course, we do not agree on other matters. From the very first moment you've stood against driving the launch of a tourist infrastructure, with a capacity for economic dynamisation in its very important surroundings, as it is a bumper; something that, no doubt, to many villages and towns in Galicia would like to have as a dynamization element. Obviously, your plans, the plans you had in this case the Galician Nationalist Block for the Monterrey compound, are known. There was a great event that brought together 800 young men in costumes or medieval dresses to make a great game of role. At the time, it was -- let's say -- an activity of great cultural value and that generated a huge development in its environment. That was BNG's policy on this premises. Obviously, we have a different one. Our policy is founded and based, while we regain our heritage, in generating a focus of economic and social development for the whole of the region, job creator, as it can undoubtedly be a bumper. From that point on, we can talk about a lot of questions. What you care about is whether cultural preservation is guaranteed what is called "real footwear", which is access to the top of the acropolis. You know perfectly well that you are working in this field and you know that a project is being developed -- or you should know -- by the way, spoken in this case both with the municipality and with the company Paradores, to solve a problem that exists, which is real, but we think that the solution is the most logical solution because it will allow you to preserve, on the one hand, the enormous cultural value of that footwear, which is part of the historical-cultural set of the castle, the enclosure, which can be made easier to access, in this case, users, to people who can visit this set, who, of course, had a restoration that significantly improved the castle and made it an important element of economic dynamisation. Anyway, seeing the weather, I think I'm going to be very fair. I'll wait for the second intervention to explain technically what will be proposed to solve the problems you pose. And from what I can see, I haven't just made it very clear whether BNG supports whether there's an accessible fence or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u340	Thank you very much. He explained it to you in the second intervention. Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u341	Mr. Rodríguez, do you know what the BNG policy was, and also the Socialist Party as a government partner, about this facility? First, get the transfer. And secondly, to do something that you, in almost a decade of government, haven't done yet, that was to make a master plan; don't start the house by the roof, as you did. [[Applause]] I don't know if you can tell us today whether at some point in the next story we're going to see a master plan and a true plan of protection and dynamization of this set. Together, I insist, not only castle, not only parasol, or not. It's a request that I again take advantage of to transfer to you, not to get into other matters, like you, as an education adviser and also as a teacher in your past, I don't think you should underestimate the role playing as a learning and leisure mechanism for youth. Tell you that I must know what is being done, or what should be done. Man, I know because I'm talking to the neighborhood and because I read The Region. What I don't know is if you know what they're doing, because here's a February 2018 headline where you say, "Parents and Together will look for a solution in a few days." This after the fence had been closed without knowing very well why, neither when nor for how long, information only from the private entity; at no time from the Galician Union, at no time from the Monterrey Town Hall, which is not a paradigm of transfer, and that's why we bring this question here, because neighbourhood has many doubts. And not only have we brought this question, but also proposals. We insist, in addition to that plan director, that we also have to do a damage assessment. I'm asking you if you've done that damage assessment on the shoe or not, and if you've planned to take some kind of file, and also to make a planning for this element, which we think is very important...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u342	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u343	...from a secondary point of view, its heritage protection is guaranteed. And not as yet, because I showed him a picture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u344	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Your time is up. The operating microphone is no longer available. Close this question, Counsellor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u345	In fact, Madam President, what was best known in the BNG policy, of its socialist partner, was a great event, a play of role, I do not question it, but it is true that there has been a huge investment in costumes and costumes. I don't question that, it's your policy and the truth is that it's okay, and above all try to convert that into the place of the German revolt. There are historians in Spain and Galicia of the German revolt, it was their plan, not the question. But anyway, you tell me what we're going to do. I'm going to tell you that we've perfectly planned what we're going to do, and I'm going to explain to you — if you let me put a plan, that I think it's much easier to understand — that there's a part that's the old shoe, that, obviously, at the end of the day if you saw that, in fact, there were archaeological remains that you need to preserve and put on value. We've detected this and we're going to intervene on it. How are we going to intervene? Through, first, the enabling of secondary access, initially, by which they have been ascending without any kind of problem people, users of this compound. It is true that this climb is not as dignified as possible, it has problems, very closed curves, pending problems, etc. First of all, we're going to protect the shoe, we're going to put on a layer of land to preserve that compacted shoe, so that we can later fix this secondary route to facilitate access. Writing a mail project into Roman footwear value; while writing the project, building and running, we have this secondary entry. Later, we will intervene in this. We are talking, for the first case — from secondary — about two months to have everything prepared, to facilitate access to this area. And we'll also have, more or less, an average of twelve months, with an investment of around €350,000, approximately, rehabilitated the current footwear. When this process is finished, we'll have two accesses, one by the old shoe and the other by the previously secondary access and not now. You worry, I don't know if it's real or fictitious, that the bumper was closed. After so many years, from so many statements, BNG is concerned that the whereabouts of Monterrey are closed, when he doesn't want it or he is. Perfect! From that point on, I wonder: you are informed only by the media, because if you asked — in this case — the head of the station would tell you that it is a scheduled closure, a closure programmed to do a series of intervention works inside, and they would pass on to the users inside the building. With which there is a plan to facilitate access, it's not easy, a slope, an area with many ruins, an area with archaeological remains. It's not that easy... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u346	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u347	...it's much harder to play role. But it is true, absolutely, that planning and respect, in this case, to the heritage asset...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u348	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u349	...that is absolutely guaranteed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u350	Thank you. Question by D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Planning regarding the participation of educational centres in the initiatives so far developed in relation to vocations in the STEM areas, or of science, technology, engineering and mathematics
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u351	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u352	Thank you, President. Counselor, very late. A pre-questioned advice: don't denigrate the intervention of the Bloc Commissioner by the fact that there was a role playing, because argumentation is the same as denigrating robotic kits in primary education because toys like robots won't form great technicians either. But, well, argumentation is of the same kind. Look, our question concerns the content of the report of the Economic and Social Council on 28 February, in which, after making fifty proposals for an alliance in the Italian industrial sector, it provides in the area of the Education Council the proposal to generate a range of scientists and scientists and scientists and technologists, stimulating scientific curiosity with particular attention to the incorporation of children, that is, of students, into the technological field. That's about two fundamental lines: one of them, of course, has enough human capital, sufficiently formed, for the technological scenario that it accompanies and which is understood around not many years, and it's also very important to reduce the gender gap in faculties, which, as you know perfectly, exists within the degrees of scientific and technological linkage, not only in Galicia, but throughout the state. This report sets out a number of tracking indicators to achieve, among them, 44.4% of the enrolment in degrees related to vocations or areas of knowledge STEM — science, technology, engineering and mathematics — by 2020. And also that half of the student, also in 2020, in those degrees are women. But there is evidence that there is no aggregate information available — mention of the Economic and Social Council — about the number of students involved in scientific outreach activities; there is no evidence that we are not surprised at the response given by the Director General of Education, Vocational Training and Educational Innovation in the Education Commission last week on the 2016-2020 Equality Plan, that is, there are certain indicators of which we do not have the slightest information. It is true that your board has strategic lines of action, and especially Eurodigital ones, which tend to favour — they have actions to encourage — the acquisition of STEM competences and the development of students in these areas. The truth is that for this 2017-2018 course in your board, certain actions have been convened that ultimately suppose there will be eleven primary education centers and eight secondary education centers because there will be throughout the autonomous community for that famous STEM week. So the question is very simple, so what is your assessment of the participation of autonomous community centres in the initiatives developed so far related to STEM education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u353	Thank you. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u354	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, I sometimes use the rhetorical phrase that we are grateful for this question — it is used rhetorically — and I am going to use it without being rhetorical. I thank you very much for two reasons: the first because it allows us to speak in this House of a project and a line of work from which we are healthyly proud in the advice on how you are being welcomed by the educational community and how you are evolving. I think it's a very positive line of work, and it's, above all, giving opportunities, giving many opportunities to students today who are going to be the Greeks tomorrow. And I say it because if I said what I'm going to say behind a question from the People's Parliamentary Group, or I said it in a media, you would say that we're advertising and propaganda, with which I thank you for asking to allow us to say, or say, what I'm going to say next. The second reason, which we also thank him for, is that in his own explanatory statement he says something that I would like to repeat and I would like to read literally: "Surely, the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order has begun lines of action aimed at enhancing external vocations." I think it's a positive recognition for a line of work of which, as I said, in the council, we are healthyly proud, and compared to other autonomous communities, we are at the forefront of a process that, whether we burn it or not, will mark not only the current becoming of education, but the future of society, because, whether we burn it or not, we live in an increasingly technological society, and it's necessary for the education system to prepare the adults tomorrow so that they can develop with the skills and skills that will increasingly be demanded in social life, in everyday life and, of course, also in working life and economic life. And, obviously, and this is true, you then tell us -- and so it seems to me in your exhibition -- that there is little money, which spends little money, which says that only about 600,000 euros are recorded in this budget. And that's where political picardy comes out trying to pose the part for everything. You're talking about an ESC report, obviously the ESC has to answer from its reports, the ESC itself. We can respond to our strategy and we have a strategy, an educational strategy, which is the Eurodigital 2020 strategy, which was presented at the Board of Directors, which has passed through all the filters, let's say administrative reports, intervention reports, budget reports, etc., which sets out that by 2020 there will be an budget aimed at promoting STEM vocations and aimed at promoting digital education of more than 50 million euros. I think they speak clearly these 50 million euros of the vocation that this Council of Galicia and this education system has to give opportunities to our young people and, above all, to encourage everything that has to do with the skill of the future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u355	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you. You've finished your shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u356	In any case, I would like to thank you, as I have already said, for your planning and I will be delighted to continue to respond in the next part of the intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u357	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later. Thank you. Replica, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u358	Thank you, President. Counselor, I appreciate your gratitude, we're not going to enter this spiral of thanks because we're not leaving her. Look at one thing, if you say you're proud of the response from educational centers, because of 898 primary education centers that could be targeted, 36 were selected, 11 were selected, 4%; and 511 secondary education, 31 were selected, and 8 were selected, and in total of the autonomous community, 300 and few students -- when I say few are 308 -- that week STEM of all the thousands in the autonomous community, if you say they're proud, I'd be worried, frankly, I wouldn't be very proud. [[Applause]] Man!, it is true that we must bear in mind that we have recently attended — and I see, I truly believe — with concern, with pain and anger at the devaluation of the university quality of this country; I am watching with deep anger. But, of course, when it turns out that some of your co-religionaries, not this autonomous community, but if from Leon, say, "OK, Cifuentes don't have a master, what's the problem?" You say, okay, the figures are these, what's the problem? I really don't have any problems — you know perfectly — in recognizing the kindness of the Greek education system. That's why in this initiative you recognize what's obvious, that is, that the council has paths started; now, are you satisfied with the response given by the centres?, do you think that this amount of centres that voluntarily apply to participate in the STEM week is enough to achieve the targets that are marked? Even you, not the Economic and Social Council, but the Education Council itself for the year 2020, do you really believe that within two years the objectives of the participation projects will be achieved? You just asked me that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u359	Thank you. Close this question, Counsellor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u360	Mr President, this is a plan, it is a strategy that was adopted in September of this year, which proposes many innovative and pioneering initiatives that have never been given, this is one of them; and it is growing progressively, we cannot change the education system overnight. I remember words from his group and some opposition party when they said that multilingual education centers, plurilingualism, affected a very small number of students, yes, but it will grow, and this will grow, don't doubt it. Look, I'm going to invite you for the 20th and 21st of an action also linked to the promotion of STEM vocations. Look, to see that, too, that data you've given, which takes part at all, is easily contradicted by a lot of other data. These two days, 20 and 21, there's going to be an activity we call the StemLab Fair, where many educational centers, about 120 educational centers, will bring innovation projects in STEM subjects, where more than 3,000 students are targeted, where there's a training activity of about 1,000 teachers. Obviously, are we satisfied? No, we'd like to have much more, but you can't value a process and a progressive line of work that year by year is growing. And, of course, you tell me about that concrete action, and I could tell you, for example, that all the classes in the public education system in Galicia have a connectivity of at least 100 megas; or you could talk about 20,000 students who are going to study right now with a digital book system; or you could talk about the digitization of all the classes; or you could talk about lots of elements, in secondary, for example, robotic kits in all the classes at all the secondary schools. This year we started in primary school and we have 140 already distributed in primary schools; we will continue to grow and we will continue to have more. Why? Because we care a lot. And there the education system has a great capacity to generate equal opportunities, where, of course, Galicia — I think we must all be proud there, all of us who are part of the family or the great educational community in this country, be one party or another, whether we are responsible today or those who have been years or who will be — has the most equitable system in Spain and Europe, where more opportunities are given to students. And that's because we're able, with a diffuse effect, to promote very important programs so that they can be conscious and that they can have tools and tools to fight the challenges that the future will have. And there are a lot of questions we could say here, but obviously we don't have much time. But you're talking about the STEM week and I can tell you about the science clubs, how they're growing; and I can tell you about the STEM weeks, which obviously have to keep increasing their number; the STEM weeks; I can tell you about the science clubs, the making spaces, the full challenges of STEM. That is, a series of actions that are envisaged in this document, which is the 2020 Strategy, which was adopted at the Board of Trustees, which dedicates 50 million investments by 2020. And what you basically want is to generate equal opportunities and prepare and give opportunities to our young people for the future. And believe me -- and I think you know it --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u361	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u362	...that we are a community that we are at the vanguard...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u363	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u364	...I spanish it in this field. And I think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u365	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u366	...that that's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u367	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u368	...a cause for satisfaction...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u369	Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u370	...absolutely for the whole set...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u371	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u372	...of the educational community. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u373	Thank you. Question by Mr Carlos Enrique López Crespo and eight other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the improvements produced at the Comarcal Hospital of Barbanza since the operation of the integrated management organisational structure system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u374	Question by Mr Núñez Centeno, of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u375	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. I put this question in the name of our colleague Carlos López Crespo, who was the author of it. And how it is possible that he is following us through the website — because I know he does — I would like to convey to him a greeting from here from all the Members and Members of this House, in addition to wishing him an early recovery and re-integration into his seat. [[Applause]] Counsellor, from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, we want to be interested in the functioning of the integrated management structure of Santiago de Compostela, which includes the hospital of Barbados. Once the amendment of the law has been approved, we will have to talk about the health area of Santiago de Compostela and the district of Barbanza, because, as you all know, ladies and gentlemen, Barbanza was neither an area nor anything, it was a hospital. Since then there will be the district of Barbanza, which, as the amended Health Act defines, is a territorial division of the area and constitutes the framework for coordinating primary, hospital and socio-health care devices, and which has to have a hospital in its geographic area. We shielded, then, by law, the existence of the hospital. The integrated area of Santiago de Compostela provides assistance to improve the health of the population, and teaching and research are elements inherent in the care process. It has excellent professional, technological means of information and communication, which it uses efficiently, effectively, safely and effectively, in order to contribute to the well-being of society. It integrates specialized care, primary care network, other institutions and centers involved in health, establishing alliances that ensure the care continuity and overall improvement of the system. So the goal is to bring as many health services as possible to citizens. A further example of Junta's determination to enhance Greek health is the Barbados hospital at the expense of more services and to convert it into a more modern hospital, with the aim of bringing the services to the patient in that region so that he can receive the best service and the closest to his home. For all this, we are asking the following question in full: What are the improvements that the hospital in Barbados has experienced since the operation of the integrated management structure system, from now on, health areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u376	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u377	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I, of course, join in greeting the dear companion Carlos López Crespo, who is sure — as Aurelio said — that he will be listening to us and that we want to see him soon. The truth is that — as my friend Román, the Councillor of Culture said — I like to ask me this question, for different reasons, but especially because I want to thank this Parliament for the support it has given to the Health Act, for that amendment which confirms what began in 2010 with Decree 168 of 7 October, regulating the organizational structure of integrated management of the Galician Health Service. At that moment we heard that the comarcal hospitals would be closed and that they would lose services, at least. The reality is that with the development of EOXI, comarical hospitals have more services for citizens close to their homes. More than 300,000 moves have been avoided in the last five years from the area to the comarcas. Approaching the health service to the citizens is the ultimate goal, which we can solve in the health centers, we can solve, and what we can solve in the comarcas we're going to do. As far as the assessment of the current situation in the hospital in Barbanza is concerned, in relation to the quality and quantity of services, has been expanding since these years — if we have been counting on Cardiology, Endurology, Pneumology and Neurology, and since 2013 also on Urology. On this date more than 60,000 consultations were held, which prevented so many other movements. As for the equipment, we acquired an endoscopic surgical tower, more than 62,000 euros; a radiology and mammography room, 508,000; and we made other investments in the equipment of works of around 300,000 euros, and we continued to make improvements. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, once again I would like to insist that the new Health Act will improve the health service with particular interest in bringing more and more services to citizens. And the patient will receive closer attention to his or her home and care, in addition, full assurance of quality and effectiveness. In addition, it will ensure and enhance the services of specialty at comarcal level. In the case of Barbanza, the entry into force of the Law published on 9th and which will enter into force this month, establishes the districts as territorial divisions of areas, as the honourable Member said, and will constitute a framework for coordinating the activity of primary, hospital and socio-health care, which will be established around the hospital in its territory. But it will also expand social participation, because within the health district it is established, also by law, the District Health Council, which, among other things, will have the functions of proposing to the governing bodies of the district those health measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u378	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u379	...that contribute to raising the level of health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u380	Thank you. He's got another shift later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u381	So, I think we won...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u382	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u383	...we all win and, above all, we won...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u384	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u385	...the district of Barba. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u386	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u387	Thank you for the answer, Counselor. I think it is clear that the implementation of the EOXI represented an important advance in the benefits offered to citizenship in the comarcas hospitals. Members of the People's Group are assured that the amendment of the Galician Health Act will further increase the portfolio of services in these hospitals by facilitating the presence of specialists in these hospitals and by providing legal coverage for the movement between centres of the voluntary ones themselves, which will allow, as I said, to bring people closer to health care. We trust time will put everyone in their place. We understand the concern of people in some parts in the face of the claims of some politicians, trade unionists and activists regarding the new territorial structure, but we don't share it. We don't share that concern. We all remember what has been said about the EOXI, the disappearance of the comarcas hospitals, the collection of consultations, the remuneration of professionals for high dispatching, the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro and many other things. The reality comes to dismantle these falsifications, although surprisingly these days a journalist from a local edition of a Greek media had been surprised by the absence of cuts in a comarcal hospital after the approval of the legislative amendment still unpublished. I was surprised that there were no cuts yet. No, ladies, there will be no cuts. There are advances, investments in infrastructure, new health benefits, increases in professionals and specialties. We will appreciate over time the benefits of the creation of health districts, such as those of Barba, which, as I said before, will improve the health care of the Greeks and the Greeks and bring them closer to them. On the part of our group, Counselor, the answer seems complete to us. We thank him for the same, that we hope that he will be positively valued by the citizenship of Barbanza. I don't know if in extra time you want to make some precision or expand some data in relation to future forecasts. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u388	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u389	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 16 March we presented the draft enlargement of the emergency area of the hospital in Barbados, which will have an budget of EUR 1.6 million. This is an important intervention, since the area currently destined for the emergency area, about 650 square meters, on the first floor of the hospital, will expand to the area of the entrance plan. Reform and expansion works will be developed sectorally with the aim of reducing the impact on the service and maintaining its use during its execution. It's a complicated work in the sense that, obviously — as you all know — the Emergency Service is the heart of any hospital, so we're going to have to make it compatible. The total staffing area is about 1,000 square meters and passes through the occupation of a part of the outer area of access, a covered part that will be used for the care of the Emergency Service and an unmet outside area for ambulance access. Once this intervention is carried out, the current availability of observation beds in the emergency area of the hospital may be increased, taking into account the demand of the said service to facilitate the activity of professionals for the benefit of patients. A new functional band scheme is formulated, which will have two different accesses, the main, of emergency, and one exclusive for padiolas, with separate circulations. The most outpatient area has been dumped to main access on the east facade, while the boxing area will be taken to the more private area on the west front. The observation room, with more than 100 square meters, together with nursing control, is established at the center of the proposal, so it works as a neural center, limiting circulation and maintaining total control of the whole. We have to thank the Council of Ribeira for the facilities they gave us, too, because it had to negotiate with the mountain community — which we also appreciate its involvement — to try, as we said, to modify an entranceway and through it to gain more meters for the Emergency Service. But as important as the meters we increase is, as we said, the functional change that you will have. The emergencies now work differently and we're going to separate the Pediatrics from adults with choice, with classification, with observation; with all the elements that mark the service, the involvement and effectiveness of an emergency service. So we're going to continue working, Mr. Parliamentary, we're going to continue to improve the health service. And, of course, what he talks about cuts I don't think he talks about health, because in health he's the most sensitive one, which, of course, at all times, the Council of Galicia in these years of economic difficulties has always given way. And we're going to continue working — as I say — to improve. Thank you very much. Thanks to all the parliamentarians who have supported the Health Act and will be able to maintain and continue to improve services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u390	Thank you, Mr Vázquez Almuína. We're still on the agenda. Question by Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and six other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the Galician Union forecasts for the number of dependents to be met in 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u391	To put the question, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u392	Thank you. Good afternoon, Counselor. The president of the Union has marked as a priority objective of the Government of Greece to serve 60,000 people in a dependency situation during this legislation. In October 2017, the president advances this goal and commits to the fact that by the end of 2018 these 60,000 dependents will be met, increasing the funds of the Board to the maximum of its possibilities to be able to multiply by four the number of service dependents that were found when he arrived at the Board in 2009. Specifically, in 2018, Junta spends 369 million euros to care for dependents, 39 million more than last year, 243 million more than in 2009. And besides, it allocates 67 million euros for Home Help Service, 8 million euros more than in 2017, 64 million more than in 2009. From the very first moment, the Government of Feijóo considered dependence a priority. Since 2009, Junta has increased the budget for the dependency; this has given us budgetary guarantees even in the toughest moments of the crisis. In the last four years alone, the budget for dependency has increased by 60 million euros. In the last report published by the State Observatory of the Unit for the month of February, the focus ratio of Galicia is 83.1 per cent, exceeding 7 points on the average of the State. So today we ask you this question to find out what the Galician Meeting forecast for this year 2018 is about the number of people in a dependency situation that will be met. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u393	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. To answer, you have the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor, Mr. King Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u394	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the improvement in the quality of life of people whose personal autonomy is limited is one of the priority objectives of social policy in Galicia. We can say that today the situation of dependency attention is much better than when we arrive at the Government in 2009, but we also have to say that while there is only one person who needs dependency attention we have work to do; therefore, we will continue in that work, fulfilling our commitments, and fulfilling our commitments through the facts, not words. The facts that we can make in this Parliament today are that we are devoting more economic resources than ever to the older people and people who have their limited autonomy. For the first time, we have exceeded the 55,000 dependents who receive their benefit, and Galicia is placed above, above, the average of the state in coverage ratio and also in professional services. As you asked in your question, the president scored a goal for us, his government, which is to reach the 60,000 dependents with attention this year. To achieve this goal, we have a budget in the area of greater and greater disabilities increased by 9%; therefore, more resources than in the previous year. We also hope to be able to have increased resources provided for in the State budgets, which have recently been approved by the Council of Ministers; and since the establishment of the Social Policy Council — to be part of Galicia's reality — the accumulated growth is 23.6% of the budgets from 2015 to the year in which we are at present. If we take as reference, instead of 2015, the year 2009, the accumulated increase is 168%. So, I think we're seeing here that there's a clear bet and a determined government bet. Today, by summarizing it in one sentence, Galicia pays attention to dependence of 231 million euros more than nine years ago. Finally, we can also say that since the establishment of this council we have surpassed six autonomous communities in relation to dependence and we have placed ourselves far above the national average, that we are still going to increase with all the measures we have put in place this year to achieve the goal that the president has set us up and so you ask me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u395	Thank you, Mr. King Varela. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u396	Thank you. The data is positive, Counselor. The budgetary effort to care for dependent people is shown in the budgets of the Board for this year, EUR 369 million; the state-of-the-art ratio is 76.2%, Galicia's ratio of care is 83.1%; Galicia therefore exceeds 7 points in the average state. It's true, as you say, that there's still much to be done, but with more resources, more services and more public squares the number of people cared for will continue to grow. Galicia will move from 14,000 dependents attended in 2019 to 60,000 dependents attended this year 2018. Thus, while the Galician Union increases its funds to the maximum of its potential and allocates 369 million euros to the dependency, others are dedicated in this Parliament to saying that the Union has a malicious plan to destroy the welfare state; while the Galician Union works to meet 60,000 dependent people at the end of this year, others, when they rule, said that the welfare state should be able; and while the Galician Union increases by 34% the public squares in residence, others lead the ranking of officially poor municipalities in social services. So indeed, much progress has been made in relation to dependency, we have more resources, more people cared for and, of course, we hope that at the end of this year those 60,000 people will be cared for. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u397	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Mr. King Varela has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u398	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Well, actually, I agree with what you say. Which is a lot to do, doesn't mean we've made a lot of progress in this and past legislation. So I'm not going to repeat quantitative data and qualitative data; quantitative data of people, which is the most important, of people cared for, and quantitative data also budgeted, which demonstrate without any doubt that at this time is investing in the area of older people and dependent people more than at any other time in our history and at no different economic moment. So what we can highlight is that we increased the ratio of care by 50%, from 30% in 2009 to 83% at this time. 83% does not seem enough to us, but this increase that we have made in these years seems to us to support enough, precisely, to continue to overcome many autonomous communities, to demonstrate that Galicia wants to be Spain's best autonomous community in caring for dependence and attention to its elders. We will continue to do so to achieve this goal. We're talking about a very ambitious goal, it's 5,000 people we want to incorporate into the system this year through the different professional services that are planned, precisely, in the law, with more hours of help in the home. Helping hours at home seem to us something very important to Galicia; a very scattered population in which we have to serve the older people who live in the urban area, but also those who live in the last village of Galicia. Precisely, this home help service allows us — I say — from the Government of Galicia to be able to provide absolutely services to everyone. As in the advancement of teleassistion, which we are planning for this year, also increasing its recipients. Also, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, with new booksellers, new booksellers that are going up, budgetedly, at an increase this year of 28%. The philosophy of librency is the philosophy that the biggest will be those who choose which resource they want to be better, and that it doesn't have to be the public administration to tell them what to do. And we will continue to advance this same year 2018 in the commitment also of legislation of 1,000 new residential squares for larger. This year we have planned the openings in Galicia of the residences of Vilardevós, Artexo, Baleira, Roundola, Paradela, Cervo and Foz. We already expanded this year 2018 squares in the residences of Manzaneda, Lugo, Hill, The Boat and Growing. So what we are seeing is that there is a whole package of important measures to fulfil this commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u399	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u400	I would also like to highlight in that respect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u401	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u402	...the unanimous agreement of this Parliament this morning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u403	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u404	...instigating something very important, which is improving our evaluation teams.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u405	Thank you. Question by Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the reasons of the Government of Galicia to choose the model of private management for the centre of minors of Montealegre, in Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u406	Good afternoon, Counselor. I'm tempted to ask you about these 400 million euros that the Government of Spain has left out of the addiction last year, but this question doesn't concern you about it. In 2012 you closed the Montealegre Minor Center, which is located in Ourense. They did so — they said then — for a period of six months to do works that we agreed they were necessary. So they got a hard, consistent criticism of the PSdeG, because we were facing what was going to happen -- that privatization of the juvenile center. The juvenile prosecutor's office, too, and the People's Valley itself, since that closure assumed that the minors in the center were relocated to Carballeira, with completely differentiated cases. And also from the Social Policy Entrepreneurship Committee of Ourense Province, which accompanies us today and I want to thank you for being here, since this also implies a elimination of squares within the Council itself. You came here at the end of February to account for the policy of the Galician Youth Protection System, and you lied. I myself asked him whether the juvenile centre was going to be public, public management, and attended by public employees, and you obvious the answer, he told me absolutely nothing, he didn't answer, and nine days later we found ourselves, via DOG, on March 1, with the privatization of this center; a center with works that cost EUR 1.7 million to all the Greeks and Greeks and that deliver for EUR 3.2 million to private companies. That's why we asked the three opposition groups to appear. What was your answer? So do the ostrich maneuver: hide your head under the ground and send the Pretorian Guard, send the Director General of Family and Children, who had an appearance in the 5th Commission that was ashamed and a genuine coat of hair. Besides, we found out that there are companies that have paranormal powers, because it turns out that before you published that tender, that contract, they were already offering employment facilities for these juvenile centers in Ourense province. By the way, they ask those future aspirants for very varied knowledge from physics, physical education, carpentry, psychology, and everything for a modern wage of 700 euros a month. I mean, they're empowering the precarious workers with superpowers, because you'll tell me who's able to meet all those conditions, and less for that salary. I want to ask you today why you don't trust the public administration that up until now you've been playing in the juveniles centre and why you don't trust the employees and the employees of the civil service. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u407	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u408	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Blanco, the truth is that you have to understand why I don't answer some questions, because I'm part of a government and there are some things that I think it's best not to answer them, especially when we're talking about something as important as the juvenile centers, something very delicate and something that is of interest to all the Greeks and all the Greeks, and, besides, ask me something different from what you're talking about in the written question. But there's no problem, I don't hide, I like to answer everything. So, if you want to ask me other things, you can also do it with the time you have available. The truth is, in my time available, I prefer to talk about the protection system, about the protection system in Galicia. Of the total number of guardians, 56%, fortunately, of children and children protected are found in family shelter, which is the formula that we consider optimal. We have to go to get most of the receptions to be in our families and not in our centers, although, of course, our public centers have to be in the best conditions, which was not happening in the Montealegre center, and that's why at the moment their closure was decided; not their definitive closure, but their closure for a complete remodeling; a remodeling in which all the Greeks have invested 1.6 million euros, because we want the centers, which are a resource, I say, substitute for family reception, to be in the best conditions, because that's what children and children deserve, especially those who require greater protection. Look, in his speech, in his question, in which he formulated, I'm told that the professionals who were working at that center passed to the public center of Ourense, the Carballeira. Look, actually, that's right. Thirty workers have passed, exactly, from that center to the Carballeira, in Ourense. This allowed us to have that center of Carballeira, which had 38 public employees, had 68 public employees, greatly improving the ratio for each child and every child in that center. So there is a huge increase in public squares, public workers, in the centre of Carballeira, which allows us to give better service and, on the other hand, allows us to increase the number of squares in that center, in public squares in that centre of Carballeira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u409	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u410	At the same time, we are now considering creating a new center. I'll follow after.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u411	Thank you. Mrs. Blanco's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u412	Thank you, President. They remodeled so much, that it went from public to private, Counselor. [[Applause]] Look, it's not true what he says about the workers and the workers. A part indeed moved, but the temporals that were in Carballeira and in Montealegre were fired, Counselor, by his government. But today I want to speak also — because it is a serious and sensitive issue, as you said — of the companies that will opt for this position. One of them — I'm sure you know her well because she has a lot to do with her friends in the Autonomous Community of Madrid — has just reported a few weeks ago Mr. Granados fake invoices, the Ginso company, related to the "unique plot" of illegal financing of the campaigns of the People's Party in the Community of Madrid — if, from this student president, sorry!, of Mrs. Cifuentes — from the 2007 to 2011. A company that has, in addition, a custodian, Counsellor, with complaints from the Council of Europe for handcuffing, binding and insulating these minors' rooms. Another, the Dianova Association, which manages the reception of refugees, has complaints from Acnur, Amnesty International, the Ombudsman of the people, and the Ministry itself has withdrawn his subsidy for these aid. Sociosanitary Assistance Consulting is that of the paranomical powers, which, oh chance!, is also the one that is currently managing the services of minors in the Autonomous Community of Madrid. Diagram: died, died, a minor at the Minors Center in Melilla for lack of health care. The other two are also involved in very serious cases of ill-treatment. You're going to have to choose between these five companies and those that are involved in illegal financing of your party, those that inflict ill-treatment on minors or those who exploit workers. And you know what I'm telling you, Counselor? That the Socialist Group is very clear about what remains. It's the public administration and the employees and the public employees, who were doing a great job. I ask you to stop making the ostrich...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u413	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u414	...who appears in this House and who abandons that irresponsible attitude that you are having on this subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u415	Thank you. Close this question by Mr Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u416	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Blanco, look, of course you didn't understand my reasoning. We have public servants who were in a center and who pass through another public center, thirty, thirty! What do you want? Do you want these workers to return to that center and leave us with inappropriate attention ratios to that public center of Carballeira in Ourense? Look, we think it's better to double services, to double services with a new center, really. I believe that the centre of Montealegre will be a reference center for children under the age of 12 to 17 who are in custody or guardianship of the specific Union, as required by the entire sector of care for children and children. This morning you should know that in Galicia a platform of third sector entities, precisely in the field of family and children, has been set up, that demands us a specific centre in Galicia that we do not have at this time, and that we are now going to have, and we are going to have it in Ourense. Then I'll talk about the private and so on. Look, this center is not only new, but it will have unique technical specialties, which did not exist at this time — clinical psychologists, psychiatrists, nurses, social workers and doctors — that did not exist before in the center of Montealegre. That's why we're really going to improve that center. And besides, we will go from 12 to 17 educators; yes, from 12 to 17 educators. Before there were 12 educators, now we're going to have 17 educators. And I say it because there are people who doubt they're going to be educators. They're going to be educators, as in all the centres that depend on the Social Policy Council. Look, as I've just had time, on the subject of privatization, we're not inventing anything, we're following a management model that has always used this autonomous community, who has ruled, the People's Party, but also the Socialist Party or the BNG, in the area of minors: working not with companies, which is a very important slaughter, but with social entities that are working throughout Galicia and are working throughout Spain. Look, as you point out -- I don't like it too much because it's public processes -- to some of the entities, I quickly -- although I don't intervene in the recruitment tables -- saw some of the ones you mentioned. Look, I'll tell you that one of them, of whom he spoke, works in Canary Islands, Balearic Islands, Galicia, Madrid, Asturias, Cantabria, A Rioxa, Aragon, Castile-A Mancha, Castile-Leon, Andalusia, Stremadura, Murcia and Catalonia. And the other one in Canarias, Madrid, Cantabria, La Rioxa, Aragon... Man!, therefore, just as he is making permanent allusions to the People's Party, he could also make allusions to the socialist governments of those autonomous communities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u417	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u418	And I could put many more examples of today's press on privatizations of the social services of the socialist Party councils. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u419	Thank you. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece to correct the deficiencies reported by the Committee of Enterprise in the residence of senior persons of Campolongo, in Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u420	Thank you, President. Counselor, good afternoon. You painted us an idyllic picture of the situation of attention to older people. I don't think he's gonna apply it to this case, to the residence of Campolongo. You have here today a representative of the Corporate Committee of the Social Policy Council in the province of Pontevedra, you have the opportunity to give you an explanation, and above all to give you an answer about the needs that have already brought to you a long time ago. And you also have the opportunity to apologize for the attitude, of course little respectable, which the Mr. General Technical Secretary of your Counsellor expressed when he received it last March 5th; an attitude that the unions described as "petulant, altanist and prepotent", which does not seem to us to agree with a representative of the Public Administration of the Greek Government. The truth is that both the committee and the staff of the residence of Campolongo are taking an example of effort, patience and responsibility. They've been claiming improvements in human and material resources for more than three years, in the equipment at the center. It came to a situation that was already limited after finding all those closed doors, and they had no choice but to make a public complaint of those deficiencies and needs, with two main objectives: firstly, to improve the care quality of the people who are being cared for there and, secondly, to improve also logically the working conditions of the centre. The situation is very serious. I think you've visited the residence and you've got to meet her. The cause has to do with the transformation, decided in its time, of a residence for autonomous persons in a residence for assisted persons; and to decide this without making all changes as to reforms and works and equip them with necessary means, both of personnel and equipment and material. The logical thing would have been to make a master plan and to do all the necessary reforms and works, and not to allow the situation to deteriorate and we are currently seriously lacking in health and care. I'm going to count some. For example, the need for a nurse. The center doesn't have nursing, it just has an office of attention. He needs to improve the service of the elevators, which is currently insufficient. And he also has problems with the mobility of people with reduced mobility, as well as the irregular use of the mounters. There are also no oxygen intakes in the rooms of the assisted people, which we also find very worrying about given the conditions in which these people are. There are no intakes of aspiration in these rooms too. We have to use portable material. Another of the demands is the need for comprehensive reform of the third and fourth plants, adapting them to the needs of the people who enter; for example, the need for dining rooms and living rooms in these rooms. I insist very much in the living rooms because they are people who are currently sitting all day in chairs where they eat and where they spend the day. They're also asking for something as simple as an outdoor leisure space and, of course, you're getting better than the staff.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u421	Thank you, Mr Bará. The question is clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u422	I therefore ask you, Mr Counsellor, to reply here, at parliamentary headquarters, to all these demands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u423	Thank you very much. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u424	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, the aim of the Galician Union is to achieve the well-being of all the Greeks and all the Greeks, especially when we talk about our biggest ones, which we need to have a special sensitivity. Look, I can't tell you either, when the answers don't like them, they're due to something particular. In fact, we've already had a question about this, about the scope of the elderly. The truth is that this government, the whole government, is very aware that we have a lot to do, but what we cannot deny is that we have significant progress in recent years. And the first of them is the budgetary advance. Because sometimes you're talking about cuts, etc., but, look, in the area of greater truth than in 2009 the budget of the Galician Union was 276 million euros; and in this year 2018 the budget for the larger is 414 million euros. So we're talking about a 50% increase, more squares, more resources, more leverage. In fact, we also have, within all those resources, a network of centres in which, in fact, in times of crisis difficulty, we did not invest everything we had to invest in them. By the end of 2017, therefore... sorry, since the Council's constitution we have invested 10 million euros in improvement works, which are certainly not enough; as you say, they are not enough. At the end of 2017, a new dining room was set up in the central area of the fourth floor with the aim of increasing living space, adapting a new nursing control, doing jobs that were pending in the elevators and technical and equipment aids. At this point, the kitchen equipment is being restored. But I say we are aware that there are still actions that we have to take. That's why I really appreciate this question. Because, in fact, we were able to see that in this residence we have important improvements and that the technical teams of the Council have already moved to the same place, so that they can be published in two phases, which I will then be able to report to you in the second intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u425	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Bará's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u426	Indeed, Counselor, I did not ask you a question onanist, of those who posed to you your parliamentary group, of self-satisfaction and autobomb. It's a demanding question about a reality that doesn't correspond to that description that you have made, wonderful, of the situation of residences and attention to older people. What we ask of you and what we propose here is that you give clear and concrete answers to the representation of the company committee. We even ask him to meet, at the end of this question, with them, and to hold a meeting with them, which acquires commitments to resolve these demands that have been formulated for more than three years. Because I have here written for the year 2014, for the year 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, including an interview request with you. And we also proposed a visit by the parliamentary groups to the residence to first-hand know exactly the situation you have. They have, for example, raised specific demands—and I ask you to answer—as far as staff are concerned: a minimum of eight more people; two nursing workers, five nursing assistants and one cook or cook, who are essential needs to improve the quality of care. They ask you, in addition, for improvements that already exist in other residences, like Vigo's, that you have a staff ratio of much higher than this residence in Campolongo. This situation you're leading to is an overwork, an overwork in the staff in order to try to meet the minimum quality of care. Counsellor, there are situations in this residence that could soon lead to their closure if there is a requirement — for example, health — as regards the use of mountaincars. We don't want to be alarmists, we don't want to go that way, but they really have to put the batteries, they have to make commitments, because it's not to be received that is happening at these heights of the twenty-first century, and it's not to be received above all that the people in there get this deal; it's not a decent deal, it's not a human treatment, and therefore they have to take steps to correct all these deficiencies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u427	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u428	...and act in addition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u429	Thank you. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Time's up. [[Applause]] Thank you. Shut up about this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u430	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, Mr President, I would like to express to you the commitment of the Government of Galicia to the residence of major Campolongo in Pontevedra. Tell him that, indeed, we have diagnosed needs; some have been implementing; some of those that have been implemented, from my point of view, have not been as timely as they would have been. But in the Council, there's the councillor, but there's a whole series of departments that have a lot to say when there are performances at the different centers, which we're going to try to coordinate it sufficiently. I've already given you the instructions you need to be well-coordinated. Having said this, tell him that, indeed, there is need. I'm going to tell you now what action plan we have at this moment, according to the technicians who have already moved to the residence. But I also want to say one thing — if I may — that the residence of Campolongo is a magnificent residence. He has deficiencies, how we can all have in our homes and in our public facilities, but we have to say this: it's a magnificent residence; that's, first of all. Secondly, he has magnificent professions. Those are two things that I, as an advisor, as you will understand, want to put into effect, acknowledging what you are proposing to me. Improvements: they are necessary, in the short and medium term. So at this point I gave instructions to the departments involved in my Council to proceed in two phases. In a first phase, which is immediate, or which does not require the development of projects, as there are some more quiet things that require it, to act immediately in the conversion of the fourth floor dining room into a multi-purpose room that at the same time allows us to improve the space reserved for the plant staff. Because I've already told you some of the things you might have been able to do with a greater adaptation to the needs of the staff, but sometimes it's really complex in the administration. In parallel to this, we will build a new dining room, more spacious and bright, at the end of this fourth floor. And in parallel to that, and in the same year 2018, we're going to have all the oxygen intakes that are essential for attention to the invalids who are in that residence. Therefore, announce this first phase of work this year 2018. And start the projects that are needed for more closed actions, which has to do with accessibility. It's not a single competition from the Council. We'll have to agree with the Town Hall, from an urban point of view, where we install something that, from my point of view -- and I agree with the workers --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u431	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u432	...it's essential, that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u433	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u434	...are the elevators, the nursing area and new jeriatric baths. So, I hope and hope that among all of us we will be who, according to all the staff of the residence, will improve it to give a good public service. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u435	Thank you, Counselor. Time has to control it very much, because here is very important; if not, we never end the questions. Question by José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Galician Union regarding the adoption, before the Holy Week, of the Plan to Prevent and Defend the Forest Fires of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u436	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u437	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, I don't think I'm going to kick if I say Pladiga has been a study compendium of the mountain situation, district to district, prevention measures to be taken, assets to which it counts (both material and human), states of the same and patterns and protocols of action. So a real plague, in addition to a cut and paste part -- let's say -- has another more interesting one, as a result of an annual assessment of all prevention measures taken, of the flares and causes and behaviors of the same and of the errors and correctness of the emergency and extinction devices. This reflection and evaluation should be made by social agents related to the mountain and the operational varicine of prevention and extinction, so that, after the relevant reports and discussion meetings, they can bring to light an operational Pladication that responds to a changing reality and that was the star instrument for the next season. But about a week ago we knew he was ready and waiting for his approval. And, Counselor, the signs that he has do not differ from the routine of other years, the cut and paste that bothers them so much that we tell them. No, there was, as it is preceptive, district meetings with the mountain communities and with the neighboring mountain communities to plan the prevention and defense work of each of them. It's 700,000 acres of the mountains that we're talking about in this section. Yes, I know that in previous years they haven't had these previous meetings either, because, Counselor, the Pladiga has been another document like the Forest Plan, a mere contentless process that doesn't take seriously. You don't take the hill or the countryside seriously, and that's how it goes. Despite the secrecy around this plan, tell us that we are wrong and that they have followed the right steps in drafting. Tell us that this time they took the matter seriously and everything is ready. Or isn't it? Some little thing we're going to know, as now the extinct forest fire research brigades are going to be replaced by the group of hunters, who, rifles in laughter, will watch the mountain in part-time. Tell us: Do you include training courses of at least 15 hours? It's amazing, worthy of the best times of Don Ramón del Valle-Inclán. We continue with the question, which is out of time — and not because of our guilt —: will the new Pladiga be presented in society before Holy Week? Or are we waiting for the patronage and intervention of St. Cucupato, patron of lost things? I'd almost say we'd settle for it before the Holy Week of 2019.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u438	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u439	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. The truth is, you have a good tone of voice, but the content goes less and less. [[Murmurs.]] First of all, I wanted to tell you... well, I don't know why you're upset about this, you have a good tone of voice, and for me the content is less. [[Murmurs.]] Well, I think it's fair that you say that, don't you? Firstly, what I want to make public is to thank the various political groups here for the great work they have done in the committee that has been developing for two months in this Parliament and for the people who have passed through this committee — some of whom have never been in Parliament before a micro — to give their views. And in the end, the result that we all pursue, Government and non-Government, is to put an end to the incendiaries and, therefore, to the fires in Galicia. Having said this, that I had the opportunity to do so a week ago and also to tell the representatives, I think it's fair to say it here in Parliament too. To wait for that dictation and those conclusions that I said would be welcomed by the Government, by the Rural Council, in two areas: analyzing the past and the present and talking about the future. And the future of course is the forest plan. And I would tell them that, in this sense, if you speak more rigorously and more seriously, because behind you there are a lot of people who are waiting for what we can among all do to improve rural Galician, to improve the economy in Galicia and above all to live more than quiet. He said the question was out of time, and he actually wondered a while ago and had to be postponed, and I say the reasons why he didn't answer at that time, and it was that I coincided with a trip to Brussels to defend the future of the CAP in Galicia. And to talk about Pladiga because it's talking about the forest fire prevention and defense plan in Galicia. Pladiga has been active since 2007, with a lot of contributions over the years. And believe me, Mr. Rivas, that this year has more contributions, firstly because we're not only focusing on a single document that was worth the summer, but it's a document that's worth the whole year; and we have a lot more in the summer, of course, because this is when we have the greatest risks. And what includes the Pladiga? For this Pladiga includes prevention plans, protection plans, sensitization, surveillance, detection, extinction, research and development, as well as coordination...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u440	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u441	...in different fields. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u442	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u443	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I started talking, half of his speech, I thought I didn't understand the question, I thought I was talking about the forest plan. We're talking about the Pladiga. And speaking of the Pladiga, nothing has changed. Tell us. Well, I'm glad in principle that you don't talk about incendiary terrorism, that you're talking only about incendiaries. The commission has already served something, though it was only to change a word. It became clear in that commission, Counselor, that the problems are structural, they're not problems of a little thing here or so. [[Applause]] The plague as prevention should have provided, at these non-existent meetings of work with the mountain communities, with the Sofor — or with the Sofor, which there should be only one —, management plans for the burned lands, to avoid making the mistakes that have been made so far; that is, here a mountain is burned — let's say — mediumly ordered and reordered in the same way; that must be changed. Will you contemplate the Pladiga measures with respect to the safety strips in the areas of domain by the holders of public roads? And I mean, for example, that if you travel on the Feb in the north of this country, you see the gestures and the woods, and above all the toxos and the eucalyptus, they invade the path; they are not on the shore, they invade the path. And that's about you, it's not about the municipalities or private entities. Look, it's over the first quarter. We're on our way to get the escape from the prevention plans to catch us in the middle of the season of fires. You know, Counselor, that in this country, fifteen days without rain, we have a problem. And you know that you have to cut it off, and you have to put it down from a plan that is taken seriously. But you don't take it seriously. Last year they approved in June and this year when does it go? For July? And besides -- I repeat, Counsellor -- a serious Pladiga has a part -- let's say -- mutant that there must be consensus and that it must be spoken, district to district, with social agents on the mountain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u444	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u445	It's not something you've been doing since an office. That's what we have technicians for. Then let's not do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u446	Thank you very much. Close this question, Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u447	Thank you, Mr. President. I said it to conclude the commission and I repeat it now: let's not look for professionals anywhere, the best professionals are working in the forest districts, in each of the nineteen forest districts we have in Galicia. No one takes this as a joke — I don't know if you — of course, the rest of society, no; the Government, no, and the people who work in the forest districts and all those who make up the staff of the Rural Council. And all those who collaborate — who are many — play their lives every year. You call them the way you want the arsonists. There are deaths and, therefore, they're called murderers, they're called terrorists, they're called if they want innocents; they're finally dead. And there are deaths in the fauna, there are deaths in the flora, but above all there are human deaths. With which I don't care what they call it, eventually the result is there, and life is the most precious thing we have. So let's not be complicit in them and try not to soften what a fireman does. Because it's not about that "it was a problem, poor!"; he had no problem; during the summer the fires are banned and there is no control over them. He told me about silence when the Pladiga and I answered him. The Forest Council is being convened. In this Forest Council 60 people are represented, 30 of them are members of different professional associations that are active part of what is the mountain in Galicia. And it will be heard, of course, the Forest Council before its final approval. Therefore, if it's for the next year, no, Mr. Rivas. It works with another seriousness on the part of the Government, works with another seriousness on the part of the Conseilerie do Medio Rural, works with another seriousness on the part of all and each of the 19 forest districts. I'd ask them to stop making jokes about certain things. First of all, if we want to expropriate the abandoned common-hand neighboring mountains. Mr. Rivas, once and a thousand times, you say there are mountains that are abandoned. If there are mountains that are abandoned and so certified by the professionals, those mountains will pass to the Land Bank for them to be well managed. You don't talk about expropriations. If in the end the result is that no one will believe them. And now the second drift is whether the hunters are going to be those who watch the mountains and we're going to replace the staff. Hunters are people, just like other people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u448	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u449	...that they are by the Greek mountain, that, if they determine...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u450	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u451	...who want to be collaborators...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u452	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u453	...will be collaborators like others. I also invite you to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u454	Thank you. They both have a great voice, both of them, that's the truth. [[Laughter]] They have a magnificent voice, you can't deny what's obvious. Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez and Mr. Paula Quinteiro Araújo, from G.P. of En Marea, on the real cost for Galicia's public era of hiring UME services and Operation Centinela for forest fire fighting work in the years 2016 and 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u455	Question by Mr David Rodríguez Estévez, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u456	Thank you, President. I'm going to break the tone of good voice now. [[Laughter]] Counselor, very late. Galicia is today the autonomous community of the Spanish state where most fires and hectares are burned. This high incendiary activity has been fought for years by the public defence service against forest fires. We have to remember that, while the public service assumed, before 2005, more than 70%, with more than 10,000 fires a year and an average area per fire of 2.4 hectares, today, with a percentage of the public service weight of less than 40%, the fire surface tripled, reaching over 6 hectares per fire. This reveals the great and the great professionals who count on the public service for an optimal development of their functions. On the contrary, we want to make it clear that one of the major errors in the current device is the atomization of the service, which, along with the continuous cuts in personnel and media, makes this service less and less effective. And one of the causes of this atomization is the recruitment, through the Galician Board, of fighting the fire of organisms such as UME or Operation Centinela, to supplement the closure of mobile surveillance, to supplement the closure of surveillance cassettes in districts and the non-covering of vacancies in public service extinction brigades. This last year, according to the recent report by MAPAMA, we had 2,302 fires in Galicia and 947 cones — 3,249 in total —. We are now going to see the data in the Ministry of Defence report not referring to Operation Centinela: "About 450 soldiers have deployed along the Galician mountain for fire prevention, completed their function with a ‘positive’ balance—recommendated—“as reported by the Ministry of Defence. Three of the four provinces were controlled by the different units. Its operations were able to notify more than 243 cases of fire, suspected burns and fire material. In addition, in the same communiqué we want to highlight the effectiveness of surveillance and deterrence." Well, according to the Ministry of Defence report, Operation Centinela detected 7.49% of forest fires. This happens while you've deleted the mobile watches of the Bipartite and while you don't cover the squares of the watch boxes, so you have to close on many occasions. For you, it doesn't seem like a bad solution to aircraft belonging to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment, which is who bought it but who uses the army — and this is a covert military expense, as we see it —. Defense has signed agreements with the Galician Union to carry out this activity of surveillance and fire control over these years. And, after it's us, the Greeks and the Greeks, the ones we pay you, they still refuse to come to the Forest Fire Studies and Analysis Commission. So the question we want to ask...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u457	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u458	...it's if you can tell us how much real expenditure it means for all the Greeks and the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u459	Thank you, Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u460	...both UME and Operation Centinella. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u461	Thank you. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u462	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know if we can say about David that he also has a good voice, sure, but I think he's also very good at the Middle Rural Council in the field of fires. Let's go straight to what cost the agreements signed for the Galician Union are supposed to be. Yes, directly, 2016, 569,057.29; 2017, 569,419,10. And I'll tell you that he's also preparing his next convention for this year. But I'm also going to tell you a little bit of history and why it's done and why it's stopped. And of course I'm also going to respond to you about all the progress that has been made in your collective lately, which you must know first-hand. Regardless of this, I'll tell you that with EMU and, in particular, with Operation Centinela, agreements have been signed since 1999, and they have continued until 2005. The Bipartite enters and determines that he does not want to make the agreements with the Ministry of Defence. And there's a fire strike during the month of July and August of 2006 and so this is a turning point. Quickly, again, if a new, closer collaboration is triggered, it's the same as since 1999. And from that, again, from the year 2006 until now, there are agreements between the Galician Union and the General Administration of the State through a protocol on prevention of extinction support. And, of course, you have to say that, I hope you were a member of this committee, just like others who did not attend. Do you do a job? Yeah, they're doing important work. And we can't put back all the work done since that year 1999. And if not, there would have to be an explanation of why that agreement was no longer signed between 2005 and 2006 and quickly reconsidered. Between 2008 and 2017, agreements were signed year after year. There are good results, and those are the ones that are being sent to Galicia for evaluation. They are subscribing depending on the risk — medium risk or high risk —. They're a total of 27 ground patrols and several mobile equipment. The activation period is between July and September 15. There are a number of surveillance areas that have previously proposed the Rural Media Council. Of course, they get to know the work done, and when there's a high or very high risk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u463	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u464	...recompensate that situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u465	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Rodríguez Estévez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u466	Counselor, thank you for answering things I didn't ask you; yet I'll put it in the knowledge of those brigades that today are with two components. Just for the cost of Operation Centinella -- what you've said now -- we could have over 22 mobile surveillance units all summer around our territory. Brigades that, apart from monitoring and deterring, also put out fires, which Operation Centinela is not doing. Today, UME in our territory, for you, is it really begging for the lack of protection of our mountains or, indeed, is it an exercise of professional intrusion — what are they doing? Counselor, armed forces must not assume functions like the protection of our mountains. That's not up to them. That's a civil issue. Even today UME what it does in our mountains is to be an instrument of propaganda. You talked about the commission and the people who went through it, that I had never had a microphone in front of you. And I also want to talk about what Mr. Rivas introduced a mouse on the subject of hunters. Here was the President of the Hunting Federation. He said that idea, that they could be like custodians of the territory. That one had the microphone in front of him. In fact, in some activity that Junta promoted, she said that "those fucking eco-friendly faggots are not going to stop us." Well, you did listen to those gentlemen. [[Laughter]] Look, Counselor, we what we need today is to complete the public services 100 percent so they can run their jobs and thus achieve the ends for those who have been conceived. We need a unique service, a service that is professional and a service that is civil; permeable professional services capable of dealing with new risk situations, which we see today when we go to a forest fire and which are posed by new types of fires. We need greater coordination between different firebombs, urban and forest emissions. And the people of UME, the people of the Army, that doesn't provide it. We need very clear protocols of action, we need more than ever to secure and improve public services and, of course, to look after our mountains and not UME. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u467	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Close this question. Counsellor of the Middle Rural.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u468	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. David, I don't know if you want to exclude someone from looking after our mountains. I, of course, don't; I need everyone, too the ecologists, I'd just miss it! But why not the hunters, why not the people, the amateurs...? I mean, every person who's in rural Galician, who's in the mountains, whether a child or an older person, the more conscious she's against fires, the much better. No one comes here to beg no one. Everyone here has their job. And there's a job done and a story, besides, that goes down that job. But, speaking of professionals, of course, we have the best professionals in Galicia. And you should know just as I already know, and I say directly, in the negotiations that I had, that there have been a lot of progress before I did, but since I arrived I told you that the passage to the second activity of the professional fire department staff; we have renewed individual protective equipment, with an budget of 1.7 million euros for the years 2017 and 2108; we agree with the union organizations that the workers of the service have the consideration of forest firefighters, which implies an improvement of their working conditions and also results in greater effectiveness in the development of their functions; we renew much of the motorcycle park, new mobile car park, new stations; they have covered, Mr. David, all vacancies, all vacancies!; and we have developed the agreement for new professional scales — it is about facilitating the access of different personnel to the scale of technical agents in environmental management. And we are moving forward in training, because in the fight against forest fires it is essential, firstly, to ensure their safety and, secondly, to improve our service. That's why formative days were scheduled throughout the year at different points in the territory. These days were addressed to technicians, agents, brigade personnel, bombers, broadcasters and vigilantes. They trained personnel in security, communications, logistics, coordination with the air media and others. These training actions integrate the general planning of the Union in the field of personnel in the fight against fires. To finish, we improve the fire management software, the Xeocode. This tool allows, for example, to connect to map servers and integrate the program with the rest of the various applications. And at the same time be acquaintances where each one is at his disposal, and guarantee what his safety is. Finally, we have made qualitative leaps in the fight against fires by incorporating the latest technological advances in ICT emissions, but also in the issue of security. And you must know him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u469	Thank you. Question by Mr Carlos Enrique López Crespo and seven other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the balance sheet made by the Sea Council for the use, for traceability in fishery products, a telematic method pointer in the European field, through the Fisheries Technology Platform and through the Ticpesc terminals existing in the ports of autonomous ownership
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u470	Question by Mrs Teresa Egerique of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u471	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today we want to talk about traceability in fishery products, we want to ask you about a pioneering system here in Galicia. Traceability in fishery products is the ability to know the route of a particular fishery product, from its catch and collected until it reaches the consumer. It is therefore a fundamental procedure and process, because they are products intended for human consumption and must ensure health protection, and they must contain extensive information on the entire marketing chain, including the consumer and the different fisheries marketing agents. On the other hand, they also need to help balance resource management and the development of reliable statistics. There is currently a very detailed regulation which must be applied for the monitoring or tracing of a product, both at the autonomous, state and European level, with food safety regulations, animal hygiene standards and control measures in the field of the common fisheries policy, among other measures. To exercise this traceability we use telematic documents managed through the Fisheries Technology Platform, which can be accessed on the website "pescadegalicia.com", and through the terminals called Ticpesc existing in each of the ports of autonomous ownership and which the Sea Council makes available to the sector. We must not forget that Galicia is a point — as I said at the beginning of my speech — in developing this system, and that other countries such as Turkey, which is already at the European Union's door, have fixed themselves in the way in which we work to achieve that traceability. So today we'd like you to be able to expand that information a little bit. We were interested in traceability, and we wanted to ask the following question: What is the balance made by the Sea Council of using a pointer method at European level, through the technological platform of fishing and through the terminals called Ticpesc of traceability? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u472	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u473	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Egerique, starting with where you end up, if you ask me for two words to define the balance we can make of the operation of this platform, I have to tell you that it is extremely positive. And in this sense, I would also like to express our thanks at this moment to the most important part of this tool, which is precisely all the people who make up the marine-fishing sector, because with their work, fulfilling their obligation to give the data, but doing so, they are contributing to us having a very important big date to develop, as you well said, all the statistics and all the studies needed to defend our fishing situation in the European Union. As you well said, in traceability requirements that are set out in the regulations of the common fisheries policy, and in accordance with the competences assigned to us by Decree No. 168/2015, we have designed various mechanisms so that the sector can comply perfectly with existing rules on traceability. Within these initiatives, the most important is the implementation and design of the Fisheries Technology Platform, a tool that is unique throughout the European Union, and thanks to this application it is possible to access administrative records and the most important information to justify the situation and best management of all the boilers in which we work. This section identifies the administrative situation of the different actors in the different subsectors; it identifies the register of vessels, the permit to operate seafood on foot and those of the specific resources; it also identifies the discharge and first-sales documents on the lengths. At the same time, with this information we can be continuing to follow up on the activity, and allow sailors themselves to do the alternating arts or marking system of fishing gears and the telematic management system of all documents to be issued to accompany the traceability of the product. So this is a system that covers the sector's needs in terms of documentation and does it, in addition, without making life complicated for the sector, because it can be developed from a computer or from the terminals to which you were referring, called Ticpesc. These are terminals that are available to the sector; at present there are more than 58 installations, and we will continue to extend them to all ports where the sector that operates in them is willing to make use of these applications. That is, to make the sector available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, the possibility of accessing your information and the issuance of the necessary documents. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u474	Thank you very much, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u475	Thank you very much, Counselor, for the information. Besides, congratulations on setting up this system because, as you said, it has no time, it is accessible 24 hours a day the 365 days of the year. That's what technology allows us to do, so it's always within the reach of anyone who wants to use it from the point where it is at that moment. We also want to thank you for meeting the needs of the sector and always doing so without interruption. And we believe that we must join the sector in addition to their thanks, because, as I said before, they are an example in the rest of Spain and also in Europe, so they can see how we are doing in Galicia and we are taking all these commitments forward with traceability. As we have spoken on many occasions, on this subject the Council of Galicia and the Fisheries Council also have an increasingly important commitment to traceability and to the rules they impose on Europe. We see that this work is still at a good pace, and you've also talked about the importance of the big date, the importance of making statistics, so we'd like you to extend to us a little bit in this last shift if you have data already, if you have any particular data on this particular attention to traceability, and what are the plans for the future, because we also have clear evidence that the Fisheries Council is constantly trying, from the hands of the sector, to improve and be able to update technology to the service of the whole sector. So we asked him if you have specific data and what plans for the future have with regard to traceability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u476	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Close this question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u477	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Egerique, look, we have data, and I think it's important to highlight them. Only in 2017 do we manage more than 4,200,000 sales notes. We say that since 2010 42% of the documents issued by Ticpesc have been increased. In addition, we see that since 2010 1.200 % has increased the issue of different documents through these terminals. We can say that, of course, we've managed to make life easier for our professionals, and that, with the calculations we've made, we've saved more than 279,000 trips from the sector to the different offices, both from the confrereries and from the council itself. That's to make it easier for our people too, but most importantly, it's to facilitate transparency with which we work in Galicia; it's to make it easier for all researchers working in different research centres or universities to have an important tool to help us do analyses that contribute to improving the management of all the boilers where we are working. And we have, of course, plans for the future and plans for further improvement. Now we're going to increase a minimum of 9 Ticpesc in certain ports that we've already requested. Software will be improved for the first 30 technologies that have been installed to adapt them to the latest ones. And they will be incorporated into all those who have asked for the automatic weights, including or in connection with Ticpesc itself, to facilitate the weight of all the discharges; heavy which is mandatory by Community legislation. That's why we're also making it easier for the workers, who don't have to move the goods to different places in the same port. In short, what we're looking for among all of us is to give that image of innovation also applied to our fishing sector. And in this line we will continue to apply all the technological improvements that are being presented before us in the future. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-11-DSPG067.u478	Thank you, Counselor. There are no more questions. Finish the full here. Good afternoon.
