ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. Justify the non-attendance of this full-time wife Magdalena Barahona Martín. It's primarily about a preliminary point. Provision of pledges or oaths to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of a new Member's autonomy in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u2	In accordance with Article 7.1 of the Rules of Procedure, I am requesting the promise or oath to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy of the new Member, Mr Jesús Miguel Prado Patiño. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "Yes, I swear" or "Yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. I'm asking you to answer the question I'm going to ask you: Don Jesús Miguel Prado Patiño, do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u4	Thank you very much. Once the promise or oath is given — in this case it is your promise — acquires the full condition of a Member. Welcome to Parliament and have good management here. [[Applause]] Let's start now, on the agenda, with point 1 of legislative texts. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, of the tax on single-use plastic bags in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u5	For the presentation of the bill, Mrs Vilán has the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u6	Thank you, President. Good morning. Welcome back, Mr. Prado Patiño, to this camera. Some arrive at this chamber, perhaps -- who knows? -- perhaps from today on, others have to leave or decide to leave for Madrid. [[Murmurs.]] "What will future archaeologists find?" "What will future archaeologists find? Waste! Our legacy will be a mountain of garbage, a mountain of plastic. We made something that will last a thousand years to use it for five minutes. On the far Pacific islands, the albatross starved to death because they feed on sparks. I remember the case of that whale that appeared on the coast with 18 pounds of plastic in the stomach." [[Murmurs.]] Antonio Muñoz Molina, in his book A lonely walk among people. Today is World Environment Day. And I want to take advantage of being here to congratulate the President of the Government, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, who will recover the Ministry of the Environment for the Spanish State. It'll stop being an environment to be a whole new environment. [[Applause]] This year's motto is "No plastic contamination." [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Today they're particularly nervous!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u7	Yeah, he's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u8	It's understandable. Plastic pollution accelerates or climate change. What campaign did the Government of Galician Union make for World Environment Day? We don't know any. What campaign is the Government of Galicia doing with regard to the decrease in plastics? We don't know any. What campaign did the Government of the Union make in the fight against climate change? None. It is fundamentally Greenpeace the organization that has been campaigning for months in the media to fight plastics. They also campaigned against climate villains on their day and the former president, who was lucky to go out on a comic with Darth Vader, Donald Trump and Joker for their fight against climate change and their refusal not to derogate the sun tax. Those are the campaigns. Counselor, since his counseling, we have known none, neither we nor anyone else. 32% of all the plastic that humans use ends up in nature. It is estimated that 8 million tons of plastic every year reach the oceans. The World Economic Forum states that in 2050 there will be fewer fish than plastics in the sea, more plastic than fish. And according to Greenpace, plastics account for 80% of all marine waste; it's called marine waste, advisor. The amount of plastic waste in the sea rises, affects ecosystems, biodiversity and ultimately potentially human health. And that's why this proposal of law focuses on single-use plastic bags. The European Union is the second largest producer of plastics in the world: 50 million tons a year. The average consumption of plastic bags is 176 per year and for each person; in Spain we walk between 100 and 200, on the average of the European Union. It's a product with such an ephemeral life that we're only going to use it for about fifteen minutes and it takes fifty-five years to degrade. And it's easily replaced by reusable bags like this, which is not plastic, is paper. [[Mrs. Vilan Lorenzo shows the House a bag.]] It's easy to replace if you're interested in campaigning for reuse. Plastic also generates microplastics. And microplastics -- according to experts -- are consumed by mussels, plums and Berberets in our creeks. Over the past two decades, we have observed the impact of plastics on all kinds of animals, mainly in marines. This is a bird who ate plastic caps. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo shows the House a horizontal photo in folio size.]] And this is a stork — also a bird, obviously — surrounded by a plastic bag in a dumpster. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo shows the House a vertical photograph in folio size.]] Who doesn't know pictures? Only a couple of days ago was a whale dying in a sad way by the consumption of plastic bags. These macroplastics cause wrinkles, asphyxiation, malnutrition and strangulation of animals. We go down the beach and find necklaces, find plastic bottles, caps and plastic bags. Self-government governments, if they have the will, can also fight plastic bags, with measures to ban and restrict products that use plastics that we do not need, ensuring that companies are responsible for the full life cycle of their products — there is a large commercial area that has just decided that you will not use plastic bags, welcome!—, designing waste reduction strategies, boosting awareness campaigns among citizens for consumers, to start using these types of bags and not plastic bags — for example, there are no awareness campaigns in Galicia, there are no — and ensuring that plastic has a high price and is therefore recognized as a resource that costs, applying taxes to bags. And this goes precisely this bill. Spain is the third country with the lowest income due to environmental taxation in the European Union. We've got two point countries, Lithuania and Slovakia, which are still below the lowest income in environmental taxation. The latest data we have are: 1.85 % of GDP in 2014, compared to the European Union average, which is 2.46%. Brussels had been telling Spain for years that it had to reform its environmental tax system, mainly in transport, energy, pollution and use of resources. The Government of Spain made it in late plastic bags, bad and drag. And he rejected Directive 720/2015 a few days ago, through a royal decree that was published in the BOE on May 19th. But the Government of Spain has not decided a tax, it has decided that companies will receive an increase in income from the collection of plastic bags. And besides paying companies the plastic bags, so we also make free advertising of their establishments. Galicia is no better in environmental taxation, has decided to follow the central government—now, of course, from now on, probably do everything contrary—and has decided to follow that climate villain who had a cousin who was a climate specialist, and has renounced his legislative capacity. The only environmental taxes we have in our community are the wind cannon, the taxes on air pollution and the environmental damage on the water that is encouraged, nothing more. Other autonomous communities did the opposite. Thus, in 2011, Andalusia approved this same tax with a clear environmental purpose: to reduce the use of single-use plastic bags, which generate pollution. And we believe Galicia should do the same. That is why we bring this bill and ask the House to vote in favour of your consideration, because at least it deserves a debate. Its approval would give us — we understand — greater self-government, because it creates as its own tax a new tax on single-use plastic bags, because we have tax power, which gives it the Constitution, the Statute of Self-Government and the Law on the Financing of Autonomous Communities of the year 1980. Always without losing sight that the ultimate goal is to achieve adequate environmental protection in our community. And we think it's perfectly compatible with the Royal Decree of May 19. We say that, in addition, it is even more appropriate than the regulation of the royal decree. And not only do we believe it, the National Markets and Competition Commission, when the State Government asked it to draw up a report on the Community directive, issued this report on February 9, 2017. Then it took a year and I peak to draft a royal decree that barely has thirty folios. And in this report it says or follows: "The United Nations Environment Programme stated in 2005 that a plastic stock exchange tax would lead to the most drastic reductions in the consumption of plastic bags. The countries of Europe that have introduced a tax are the ones that have achieved the best results" — and set examples for Denmark, Ireland and Portugal; not Lithuania and Slovakia, which were the ones we had before as examples. It concludes the National Commission for Markets and Competition that "It is recommended that tax figures be imposed effectively in our country instead of setting a minimum price". That fixation of a minimum price was the decision that the State Government made through the royal decree. And at one of the 2nd meetings of the Commission, the Director General of Environmental Quality told us that the German Government strongly affirmed that they were waiting for state legislation and that they were in accordance with this state legislation. For the National Commission on Markets and Competition does not say the same thing, rightly says the opposite, and concludes: "Because it is more respectful of the freedom of constitutionally recognised company, it makes citizens realize that there is damage to the environment by the use of plastic bags and also prevents improper appropriation of income mainly by distributors." This bill is very simple, it has fourteen articles, two additional provisions, one transitional, one derogation and two last provisions. Creates a tax on single-use plastic bags, with or without wings, which are sold in Galicia's commercial establishments to transport the products. There are exemptions: those products that are packed, bags that are reusable, biodegradable or compostable. It has a clear object: to reduce the use of plastic bags, and also a clear purpose: to reduce pollution and contribute to the protection of the environment, which the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the PSdeG are deeply concerned about. The tax rate will initially be 10 cents of euro, and from 2020 15 cents of euro, which will be included in the invoice, receipt or justification independently. The tax period coincides with the natural year and therefore the tax will be claimed every 31 December of each year, and it is liquidable every quarter, as is the case for the self-employed with the VAT or the IRPF. In this bill, the Socialist Parliamentary Group follows the recommendation of the National Committee on Markets and Competition. We believe that the Government, within its competences, must already carry out campaigns to raise public awareness of the negative effects on the environment. It's very sad that it's the teachers who have to go to school precisely with these photos to raise the awareness of small children, and those who are not so small, that no plastic bags are used. You're not doing it. As I said at the outset, today is the World Environment Day, which this year aims to reduce the use of plastics. Perhaps Galicia today has the opportunity to write in the golden book the approval, the consideration and, from here on, the debate of a bill proposing precisely the reduction of plastic bags. And I end by saying that it seems very regrettable to us that it is the Government on a day like today that did not bring a single initiative on environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u10	Thank you, President. Good morning. Actually, today is the World Environment Day. And we want to welcome the change of government in the state, because it seems to us that we are going to have a healthier and more breathing political environment, more healthy. In addition, this change is also a democratic punishment to the People's Party for its corrupt policies, its anti-social, regressive, involuntary, anti-democratic policies. What we regret anyway is that it doesn't happen before, does it? Because since December 2015 there have been the same reasons to throw out the People's Party of Government, and then sadly other interests have prevailed. It seems now that you want to lower the expectations of this new government, which is a government, indeed, that appears to be stranded and also protected and with many conditions. In any case, it seems to us that we are faced with a wide range of views and bravely with the great challenges, the great emergencies, the great crises that this state has, and that it is done in a way that addresses people's needs above all and also the needs and demands of our country, which, as we know, Galicia has been missing, has not been at all in the debate of the motion of censure. And we wondered in this sense whether President Sánchez kept that speech last year, that Spain was a nation of nations and that those who integrated it were Spain, Galicia, the Basque Country and Catalonia. We know what Mr. Iglesias thinks. We would like to know what you are thinking right now, Mr Sánchez, President of the State Government. Of course, the BNG will demand that Galicia count in this new time, that there is a Welsh agenda in which the political and social priorities of our country lie. And this is not the time to talk about that agenda, but since today is World Environment Day, I want to talk about a matter that seems to us to be the main and priority in that Greek agenda, which is Cence out of the creek, start out of the laugh! [[Mr. Bará Torres teaches a sticker on his jacket.]] And we expect from the Socialist Party the courage needed to address the annulment of the extension, this shameful extension in the rotational gates of democracy, which made possible a government in function of that extension, and also that it does not approve the extension that is currently being processed for Elnosa as well. [[Applause]] This new government must therefore be ambitious in environmental policies, in response to the great challenges facing the planet, in response to climate change and sustainable development. As we have already said in the debate on the circular economy, it must be a much wider debate than the debate on waste, which is a serious problem that we have as a society and that it has the planet, but which is only part of the problem, because we see how the debate focuses too much on the generation and management of waste and if we forget the main part of the problem, which is the model of production, the model of capitalist consumption, which leads to this disproportionate production of waste and to which the territory, land and seas and oceans become genuine spills of capitalism. And we also think that the problem of waste must be tackled with rigour and courage, and in particular the problem of plastics, of all plastics. And the reality is that we are starting from the failure to comply with European legislation itself in 1994, which foresees a number of targets for the following decades that have been breached, or that many countries have failed to meet, because the truth is that others have done their homework. But the Spanish State has not been characterized in these decades by advanced, courageous and ambitious policies in addressing this issue, and, of course, Galicia has not. And it seems to us that, at the moment, Europe, which is debating a strategy on plastics, is not addressing a sufficiently courageous and ambitious strategy and so on, which is being very conditioned — as it always does — for the interests of industry. This debate of course seems to us to be important and timely on a day like today's World Environment Day. And I would like to make a concrete proposal on this Parliament, which must be an even greener parliament — I told the President — and I could also immediately take measures for the elimination of plastics that proliferate unnecessarily in this parliament, from plastic bottles to other types of packaging, which could perfectly be eliminated; that is, in all areas, also in this parliament, if you can make advanced green policies and policies from an environmental point of view. And besides, because there are alternatives, because the use of plastics is not necessary. In any case, it seems to us that it is important to have a debate that goes beyond the issue of plastic bags, which is an important issue, but it is a partial issue; that we have to have a strategy as a country from Galicia with respect to plastics; and that within the various measures that can be adopted, which are payment, payment by plastic bags or by plastics in general, or taxation, there are other measures that are also taking other countries, which are directly banning, the prohibition of plastics, starting with certain types of plastics, which are absolutely indispensable and which can be replaced by other products and which, in addition, are particularly harmful. I am talking, for example, about microplastics, which are very difficult to degradable; I am also talking about the wide variety of plastic packagings, which are proliferating and which are also indispensable; or about new measures, for example, which the European Union has announced about dishes, blankets, plastic packaging and other products. And I say, you must adopt brave policies that have to go for the ban. Such policies have already been successfully adopted in other countries, such as France, Finland, Denmark or Ireland, which have achieved a very significant reduction in the use of such products. We are at a time when European legislation is being revised. There has also been some small progress in state legislation, which is very shy, with this Royal Decree on the reduction of consumption of plastic bags, which was approved last May 18. And we do not know, in any case, what the new Government intends to do on this issue, because it established the collection of light bags from 1 July 2018, and from 1 January 2020 the ban on the delivery of light plastic bags. I say: we defend ourselves to these policies, which have already been applied in other countries, such as France, which are more in line with the prohibition of such products. Also, by the way, we are currently in a debate on this subject, with regard to the revision of waste legislation, and I remind you that the new draft draft of the draft legislation amending the Waste Act of 2011 — and I am speaking to the Environment Adviser — obliges the collection of waste separately from the bio-residues for the municipalities of more than 5,000 inhabitants from 31 December 2020. So get to work and establish composting as a method, as a universal system for the collection and treatment of bioresidues in the municipalities, because, in addition, they should go forward. There are already councils, there are already deputations that are marking the way, and eventually they're going to force them through the new legislation to put themselves on the task, and they should anticipate themselves and be, of course, pioneers/pioneers in this kind of policy. We're at a moment, therefore, of normative changes and we see how Galicia is in the queue truck. There are other communities that go far ahead also on the subject of plastic bags, such as Catalonia or Andalusia. And you're in the marketing strategy, the decoration strategy, as you've introduced us here, with a lot of bill, standards, measurements, but nothing already effective. And we've been at a disadvantage for ten years with respect to other communities, such as Andalusia, which have already established this taxation, or as Catalonia, which has also been working for many years to reduce plastic bags. The note that we can put to you, of course, in all the politics that it has to do with plastics is zero chips, it's very poor. BNG will support the admission of this law. We also believe that this global debate should be addressed to improve policies on production, consumption and waste treatment. And as I said, in the hierarchy of measures, we are committed to courageous measures and ambitious policies to meet this serious challenge that we have as a planet, as a humanity and as a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u11	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u12	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. In the context of uncontrolled consumerism in industrialized countries, there is a fact that it is indisputable to respond to: waste generated by industrialized societies must be properly treated, leading to reduction, reuse, recycling, recovery and, to end, elimination, ensuring proper protection of the environment and public health. Something that sadly doesn't happen in Galicia with the Sogama model. A waste management model that in the pyramid of the waste hierarchy decides to focus its action on the least recommended destinations, those that must be eliminated, those listed in the penultimate and last place of the waste hierarchy: incineration and the landfill. Formulas of the last century, formulas of those who denied climate change until a few years ago. We will support the consideration of this bill because it goes in the right direction in the face of this enormous challenge, which is in the waste hierarchy, and focuses on the first place in the management recommendations: reduction. I'm going to give some data that really pays attention to the problem we face with plastic production and management. I warn the Members of the People's Party who are based on scientific studies and reports, like climate change. The world's plastic production has increased from 1950 with a production of 1.5 million tons to 322 million tons last year. If plastic was a country, it would be the 20th world economy, above Argentina or Austria. In the world each year more than eight million tons of plastics end up in the sea. According to experts who study the phenomenon, the plastic green has reached such a magnitude that it is a planetary crisis. In the seas they float about 26,000 tons of garbage, mostly plastic. The so-called "Pacific waste sleeve" — I say to the Members and the Members who denied climate change — is a sort of vortic where the sea currents are mixed, is in the Pacific — so it's called the Pacific — because it covers an area of nearly two million square kilometres, more than three times the surface of the Spanish territory. With the current rate of pollution, in 2050 the Earth's oceans will contain more plastics than fish. Every two seconds, 17 tons of plastic is produced in the world. Eighty percent of between 6,000 and 9 billion tons of plastic discarded in the last sixties has ended up in nature and in landfills, a volume that could be doubled by the middle of the century. Half the plastic in history has been made in the last fifteen years. Every year we use a billion plastic bags, but only for fifteen minutes, which is the average life span. And the time that this material will take in biodegradation varies between four hundred and fifty years and never. The EU Environment Commissioner, Karmenu Vella, pointed out a few months ago at a conference in Brussels that much of the pollution we generate is plastic and that only 25% is recycled. The recycling rates in the world are very low: 30% in Europe, 12% in the United States; while they are lower in Asia, Africa, South America and Sogama plants, where 3.3% of the waste that enters the garbage trucks is recycled. The data indicate that we are facing a problem of enormous magnitude, a planetary crisis that we should never have arrived at. But we're not talking about a problem that can't be reversed if there's political will. Because we know how to collect the trash, we know how to treat, how to reduce, how to recycle. It is a matter of implementing the precise systems. And this is where we find ourselves with the main problem: the Gürtel People's Party. The party condemned for corruption defends in Galicia a system of waste management own of the cacic systems, own of the neoliberalism of amicables. A system that harms the majority, harms the environment, externalizes costs and makes it profitable, walking the garbage all over the territory, to end most of it in the incinerator. The People's Party clears the reality of the problem and bets on a waste management in which it only earns Fenosa Natural Gas and its compinches, with the incineration of the worst waste, i.e. the wild burning of natural resources in the incinerator, emitting very toxic substances into the atmosphere for our health and the environment, in addition to CO2, accelerating climate change. The Environment Adviser, Mrs. Mato, an example of political recycling, does not shift her ability to waste management, because we still hear in her last appearance the game of multi-erres. The triller game that was invented to try to deceive and hide the reality of a predator model from the middle, such as the Sogama model, which is very simple: how the strategy of the three errors does not follow divert attention by adding more error. The waste management hierarchy, which is known for the three mistakes — I explain to Members and Members who denied climate change until a few years ago — aims to be a strategy that allows the reduction in the volume of waste or waste that we generate, and that their management can be the most sustainable with the environment. The preference order is set for good environmental protection. The three errors point in order of importance to where efforts should be focused on waste management: firstly, reduce; secondly, reuse; and thirdly, recycling. As the three begin to err, that's why it's called the strategy of the three wrongs. First of all, we have the reduction. This is to avoid producing so much waste, and we have reduced and reduced the impact on the environment, which is based on this non-law proposal which brings today the Socialist Party, which, of course, we will support. In this sense, the Administration of Galician Union, the Government of Galician Union's PP, the Environmental Council, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has done absolutely nothing, zero, on the first step in the hierarchy of good waste treatment. Secondly, we have re-use, which is all we can never stop using, because we use it as many times as possible, extending their useful life, and so we avoid generating new waste. On this issue, the Government of Galicia, the People's Party, the Environment Council, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has done absolutely nothing. And thirdly, it would be recycling, which is a process that aims to convert waste into new products or in matters for further use. And here we just have to put a data to see what the Galician Joint Administration has done, the People's Party: of all the waste that gets into the garbage trucks in the Sogama plants is recycled only 3.3%, the rest goes to the incinerator or the dump. After the three errors that form the pyramid of good waste management, which does not follow the Joining of Galicia, energy or material valorization would come, and already at the last points — which must be eliminated or stopped from being used — would focus attention on the Joining of Galicia and where most of the waste is devoted: incineration without energy recovery, because it does not meet the parameters, and the dump. Mrs. Mato, instead of defending a model of respectful management of the environment, in defense of the economic interests of Gas Natural Fenosa and compinche took out of her sleeve the game of triellers, the smoke bomb; that is, she doesn't get the three mistakes and wants more mistakes. Its only goal is to hide that it does not follow the pyramid strategy of managing the waste of the three errors. The Environment Council assumes that most of the waste is spent on incineration and that it does not send to the dump. I mean, the Galician Union pretends to be penultimate and not last; it's so sad. The waste management model that needs the planet must be as decentralized as possible, betting on proximity management plants, which bets on composting, prioritising the household and the community then on the plant — in this way we could take more than forty percent of waste from the garbage bag — which bets on reduction and reuse and which has implemented a system that has made the most of recycling techniques. The current Sogama system is not very different from the system parameters that existed before. I'm from Lama, I was born 40 years ago, and when I was a kid, there was a system that was a municipal dump where the waste was taken and burned. The Sogama system moves in the same parameters; similar recycling parameters, similar incineration parameters, and similar vertebrate parameters. We haven't made any progress in thirty or forty years with the People's Party in waste management. The only thing that changes is that it now enriches Fenosa Natural Gas and you've matched the new system and that we're also passing garbage, issuing more CO2, through Galicia. So we're making the management system worse. We are facing a problem of enormous magnitude, of planetary crisis. We're talking about the main challenge facing the planet, which is to preserve the planet so that it can continue to exist. The United Nations estimates that at this rate by 2050 there will be between 250 million and 1 billion climate displacements. I repeat, because the leaders of the People's Party's Environment are laughing: the United Nations estimates that at this rate by 2050 there will be between 250 million and 1 billion climate displacements. We're talking about people sheltered from climate change, between 250 million and 1 billion by the middle of the century. That climate change, which didn't know the People's Party a few years ago, and which now, recognizing it, does nothing to reverse it. A climate change that the Government of the People's Party has a lot of responsibility for leading Galicia in CO2 emissions. But with so much responsibility, we suspect how the climate refugees who suffer the consequences of their predatory life model would receive, allowing them to die in the Mediterranean, like the more than fifteen thousand who have already died in the last three years between 2014 and 2017. These are the policies of the People's Party on refugees. You don't have to squeeze a trigger to take responsibility. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u13	Thank you, Mr. Cal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u14	Good morning, gentlemen. I want to remember some words of when someone was referring to motions of censure by defining them as "carrots, as purchases or as serious democratic crimes." What happens is that in such cases, when motions of censure were defined, it was because they were supported by the party that won the election. I suppose when you win the elections, you're committing a very serious democratic crime. [[Applause]] They're words -- you know who I am, right? Ah! Then I pass them—a prominent leader of his organization, because that's the respect the Socialist Party has for winning the elections and for setting up a government with support after winning a few elections. [[Mr. Trenor Lopez is heading towards the socialist bench.]] Look, another point: the Ministry of the Environment created it as a government of the People's Party; in Galicia, the first Environmental Council also created it as a government of the People's Party, and now we also have an environmental adviser because we rule the People's Party. You, Your Honor, congratulate the presidents because they create ministries; I would rather congratulate the presidents because they lower unemployment or because they win elections. That's why I'd rather congratulate some presidents. But, well, I want to congratulate you, because I imagine, with that joy you were showing, you're probably going to Madrid. [[Applause]] Well, we congratulate you on your new appointment. It makes it clear that you have to do slots in your ranks, and it has touched you or it will touch the other Member. We, however, will be happy and will continue to congratulate you. Speaking seriously, though you talk about other things that are nothing serious, that seem more funny, but I'm going to talk about the environment, which is much more serious than your group does. Look, the project you bring here is not ambitious. You're talking jokes already, it must be. [[Laughter]] We're already talking about removing not only one-use bags but other plastic tools. The tax you intend to create, in addition to what you propose, is less ambitious environmentally than the current decree, the decree that was passed on May 18, on the reduction in the consumption of plastic bags, and so also the register of producers. And I want to remind you of some of the features of that decree: Within twenty-five days, free delivery will be forbidden to all consumers of plastic bags and will be required to charge a quantity for the bags supplied, precisely to discourage their use. Within a year and a half, the total delivery of fragmentable plastic bags is prohibited, and the obligation to include 50% recycled plastic in thicknesses exceeding 50 microns. That's because the plastic bags fragmentable, in which at first they were posed as if they were panacea for the environment, then it was already shown to be exactly the opposite. Both fragmentable and hydrofragmentable and light-componented, in the end, all they do is create plastic microparticles, which do what you also pointed out, that they can even enter the food chain. But the best date of this decree, the best feature of this decree is that from January 1st, 2021 the ban on the delivery of light plastic bags and very light will be total, except for those that are compostable plastic. In short, in twenty-five days, the prohibition of free delivery; in one and a half years, the absolute prohibition of fragmentable plastic bags; and in two and a half years, the delivery of non-compostable bags in Spain will be unconditionally prohibited. The decree also incorporates other positive issues, such as the producer register, to know exactly what we're talking about, what the volume of scholarships are produced and consumed, and also establishes a series of awareness-raising and education campaigns. With which, ladies and gentlemen, after saying this, we can conclude several things. One of them is that it doesn't seem very right to set a tax, with all that it means, when the taxable act already has an expiry date. With your proposal, in addition, you attach endlessly to the use of non-biodegradable bags, since in Article 9 it establishes a tax rate for the year 2020 and beyond. And what we're defending is the prohibition; not that it's paid for using them, but that it's forbidden. And from 2021 it will be prohibited. Besides, you say you're not in the mood. Well, I think you've got quite a recalibrate spirit, at least as you propose by law. Maybe it's not your intention, but the law you bring here does have that. First, the direct harm caused by this tribute is the consumer, who, with its impact, is intensified by the price of the stock exchange, derived from the real state decree, with the tax burden that is intended to be implemented. Secondly, the injured would be all the small trade, which would have a new fiscal obligation, with all that it means spending, paperwork, inspection and management. But besides, just so he was vigilant for one or two years. You were talking — you used the data in the plural with a lot of lightness — that Spain is between 100 and 200 units of scholarships per inhabitant, is in 144. Of course, it's between 100 and 200... but, well, you'll understand that using a unit and its double is pretty imprecise. See, in 2014, the data we have officers are 144 bags per inhabitant; in 2007 they were 317 bags. I mean, seven years later, less than half. And this was, Mrs. Vilan, the fruit of a series of stockings. There were a number of measures, such as the agreement with distribution, such as awareness raising campaigns or the promotion of the use of permanent scholarships, among others, that enabled this great reduction. But by returning to the collection spirit, you do not affect income collected for environmental purposes as happens with other taxes, such as air pollution, environmental damage tax caused by certain uses and uses of encouraged water, wind canon or the Environmental Compensation Fund. The only environmental vocation of the normative text that you propose is limited to the one indicated in its second additional provision, which provides for campaigns to raise public awareness about the negative environmental consequences of the consumption of plastic bags and measures to reduce them. Campaigns that I would like to remind you that they are already being done and that, in addition, as the advisor reminded you in your presence, they will be strengthened in the coming months. It's just that, in addition, when he said about his imprecision, you talk about that other community. Your Honor, there are two communities. It's true, two already justifyes that it's plural. But I understand that when you refer to other communities, instead of quoting that they are in concrete two, because you're sending out some unclear information, at least in a spirit of confusion, because if we ask most of the House, they probably wouldn't think that you were referring to two, but they were referring to quite a few more. And you do that thinking, indicating or giving the intention that we are an exception, it's not true. In addition, I'm going to tell you: your proposal is a literal copy of article 7 of the Law on Tax Measures for the Reduction of the Public Deficiency and the Sustainability of Andalusia. But, look, this tax never worked, it never worked properly. So much so they make an income estimate of 35 million a year and they're collecting less than 10 percent of that estimate. And, in addition, it's done: against all logic, when we have to increase the pressure precisely on this, in Andalusia they have just approved a 50% exemption on the tax rate. With which they themselves are recognizing that that law that they created at the time — I don't know if it was useful at the time — is not useful now. They lower their tax pressure just beyond and against what they're remembering and what they're asking for from all the ecological associations. Mr. Cal, you're sorry I referred to, but you said you were going to talk about scientific studies, and you asked us to pay attention to this group. I want to tell you that your group is what you talked about glyphosates, your group is what you talk about eye yoga, your group is what you're against vaccines. I mean, Your Honor, you are the spokespersons of pseudo-science in this parliament, which is why, man, I'm glad you bring scientific studies here. I hope that instead of bringing pseudoscience here, it always brings scientific studies. And our group is going to applaud and we'll enjoy listening to him. [[Applause]] Look, at the attendance of fifteen days ago, it's true that you were more pendant of other things, you were more pendant of the candidatures that the People's Party will have for the cities than the councillor himself said. But the advisor announced that the German Government will adapt the regulation of use of plastics through the new waste law, which will include measures relating not only to single-use bags, but also to other disposable materials such as dishes, glasses, cups or food trays. On the other day, the Government and its supportive majority group defend a circular economy model, which means an integral change of the current model. And within that model is also included, as it cannot be otherwise, the modification of the current legislation, designed for a linear model, not for an economy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u15	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u16	...circular. That's why the Government announced that it had already finished the draft and that it would immediately begin the processing of what will be Galicia's new waste and contaminated soil law. The Government's forecast is to soon present the preliminary draft of this law, with the aim of bringing it to this chamber in the next session. It will be an innovative, practical law that is in line with European policies, which will contribute to the promotion of green employment in Galicia. This new text will introduce in its articulated the main measures of the circular economy package approved by Europe in 2015, will set new targets for materials, focusing especially on prevention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u18	...and in preparation for reuse. And it will include the creation of the Galician network...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u20	...for re-use, promoting the intervention of entities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u21	Thank you, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u22	...social. By the end, Mr. President,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u23	Finish it now, please, finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u24	...among the latest measures of that text with regard to the current law will highlight: actions to effectively combat food waste, regulation of the sale of one-use menage — of dishes, vessels, knives, spoons or forks — or...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u26	...the promotion of the market for valued waste and green public purchase...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u27	Your time is up, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u28	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u29	Replica from the author group of the bill, Mrs. Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u30	Thank you, President. First of all, we want to thank the BNG Group and the En Marea Group for their support. This is just a small contribution to the fight against the uses of plastics. Obviously, it's not excessively ambitious, but something more ambitious than zero, which is its ambition, something more than zero is. [[Applause]] And it is curious that only on that bench, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and the whole House, is the one who brings the World Environment Day an initiative that has to do with — two, this and the purification one, the interpellation of purification — with the environment. You guys in the eye are very worried, but it would be good that that future law, because why didn't they bring it today, for example? It's good that you come here and do your ass to the advisor to see if he takes you with her on the lists of the Town Hall of the Crown, but it's not necessary, he's present here and you don't have to do so much for him live, Mr. Trenor. I advise you to read article 2 of the bill because it says: object, nature and purpose, with the object of reducing the use of plastic, plastic bags of one use, "in order to reduce the pollution they generate and contribute to the protection of the environment." Not only does it come into an additional provision, it's in an article of the bill, and it's precisely the purpose that this bill has with the imposition of this tax. It is also good for you to read article 113 of the Constitution, concerning motions of censure, and even article 122 of the Criminal Code, which speaks of the participants as profitful when it comes to political parties. I do not ask you to read the 1,700 pages of Gürtel's sentence because it would be perhaps an overly ambitious effort. [[Applause]] It's very sad that you have to bring Isabel Tocino here as the Prime Minister of the Environment, that maybe what you had to do was purge her use of a lacquer for so many years before the ministry, because she had two, she had two... she had two contributions... [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u31	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u32	...has had two contributions to the environment: to disguise herself as a shepherd girl in the Royal Canyon with quintuple sheep and to manage the rupture of the Aznalcollar ferry. A great minister of the environment, really yes! And how many years have you been Minister of Environment? [[Applause]] And it's your reference. Well, it's not necessary, I think I could sit down and I wouldn't need to tell you anything else. [[Murmurs.]] It's very sad that you have to come here, Mr. Trenor, here to defend a real state decree. Perhaps it will be because you will no longer be able to defend it from the government at the Congress of Deputies and now there are some autonomous communities left to come here and explain it. The truth is that every newspaper today is talking about the environment, the circular economy -- which is not a circular postureum, which is what the advisor told us last week -- about the environment and the plastics. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo shows the House the cover of a newspaper.]] Did you have so much work to do today's information campaign on the use of plastics? We don't think it's that complex. They didn't because they have no interest in the environment. [[Applause]] About the same thing Isabel Tocino had on her day. It is true that Andalusia is imposing tax reductions, but for one reason: because they have already achieved results in the use of plastic bags. And it is also good for you to read the report of the National Committee on Markets and Competition, because in that report, among the measures to be used, which are the absolute prohibition — as other countries have used, essentially, the Netherlands — using a price per plastic bag — which is what you are deciding, well, your former government in the real decree, which is what the United Kingdom does — and the fixing of a tribute — which is what the United Nations recommends and what they have done, for example, Denmark, Ireland and Portugal, the most powerful measure and the best results achieved is the latter. So, don't we understand why you decided to go to the other one? I am of letters, and I think you too, Mr. Trenor, and how they are of letters here is a mathematician... you came here to teach me lessons of singular, plural; up there I come. They're letters, but I understand what singular and plural is. And the math on our bench tells me that you have to be more precise, because the unit has no double, which has double the amounts, not the units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, amending Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 12 February, and approving the consolidated text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in the field of equality, to introduce positive action measures in the field of university and research
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u34	For the presentation of the bill, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u35	Thank you. Well, as a matter of precedent, I, after the presence here at the previous initiative of the competent adviser, expected a little more sensitivity from the German Government. Plastic bags are important, but we are women too. [[Applause]] From the nationalist group we want to begin the defense of this bill with a triple appreciation: First, with recognition to all the women in history, both international and Galician, who have been opening the doors and tearing down those ceilings of glass and reinforced cement throughout history. From Hipatia de Alexandria to Maria Wonenburger, pioneer women, as well as Elisa and Jimena Fernández de la Vega women, who were the first women officially enrolled at the University of Santiago de Compostela en Medicina; the first, in addition, to be part of a research team. I ask your lords to stop for a moment where this example means if you see it in perspective. Because the University of Santiago is a university of nothing but five centuries. Five centuries ago, and women only entered this university a hundred years ago. This gives an idea of the depth of the inequality we face, the depth of the roots of the patriarchate and the discrimination we suffer, which are tremendously deep and will not be overcome only with patches, but with commitment and self-exercency, also from the public authorities. Secondly, we also want from the BNG to reiterate our sincerest recognition of the courage of all these women who have stood up for their voice in recent months to break this mirrorism of equality and denounce with courage and with names and surnames that are closed doors and opportunities in the field of science and research by merely being women. We are aware that at no job is easy to do, in none, in no circumstances, neither at university nor in research. And that's why we want to thank them for opening the doors we saw behind. And finally, thank you also for the help that researchers have given us to improve this text. Since the BNG we have insisted over the past few months on the importance that, since there is an important time for the entry into force of these equality laws, we must sit down to assess their functioning and their outcome. However, after almost a decade of Mr. Núñez Feijóo's government, the panorama is depressing as to the agenda of equality, which is doomed to absolute paralysis. In nine years the People's Party has not pushed a single law on equality. It's more: at this time, the only legislative change was the BNG initiative. In nine years neither ambitious studies have been conducted, either quantitatively or qualitatively, in the field of what we are talking about today. And, in fact, the People's Party did not just approach new milestones and new instruments, but rather dedicated itself to laying down those that were already there, as is the case with Galicia's Women's and Science Unit, from which only the prize is retained. First they paralysed the previous plan and then they refused, failing the parliamentary agreements in the matter, to develop a new one in time and form; simply two years later, a new cut-off PDF and grabs from those which then the Galician Board puts in a drawer and does not use. We spoke only months or weeks ago about this initiative, the initiative of this question of the Galaga Muller and Science Unit, the initiative of the Socialist Party. I was joking myself that the website was not even updated. Well, Mrs. Burgo, the truth is, we didn't even use that to keep you up-to-date. I checked it myself this morning and it's still anchored, frozen in 2009, like so many other issues of equality. It's just that there's no more will, there's not a bit of shame. These are three examples of a desire that is absolutely scandalous, from our point of view, and that demonstrates that the People's Party does not want to make the agenda of equality a priority; a People's Party that lives more comfortable installed in that simulation of equality with a legal framework that at this time is absolutely fossilized and that not only does it do on many occasions but refuses to develop and improve with the passage of time. And that's very serious, because after all, it's turning the Government of Wales, and the Greek institutions by extension, into accomplices of that sticky floor that women have to fight to be equal in society. And it's even more serious because at this time we saw how internationally feminism was putting debates of great importance in society, debates such as the heterogeneity and the multiplicity of macho violence, such as sexual harassment, such as consent or our role in the media, which a decade ago were almost unthinkable. Many things are moving in many latitudes and that's why it's very sad that the passivity of the People's Party of Galicia makes our country, which has been vanguarded in the past, thanks precisely to the struggle of women's movements as well as the political initiatives of the Nationalist and Socialist Government, right now is absolutely stopped and to the expectation; since the BNG, of course, we will not allow them. We have a commitment, because German nationalism has always stood aside from the struggle of equality as a political movement. We always work to make our rights a reality and not a fiction. And also because we have a commitment, revalidated after this 8th historic March, which can't wait to be in a drawer, without having a translation also in the debates that take place in the political sphere and with changes in the legislative framework. We, since BNG, have made it very clear that, if there's a contribution that feminists have to break with our participation in institutions, it's precisely helping to break that false idea that legitimate equality is real equality, because we're checking that it's at all. It is true that the Greek legal system includes those principles of equality and non-discrimination on the basis of sex, but the existence of this principle, of course, does not guarantee its compliance and many discriminations persist today in our society. And with this proposal, what we want is to highlight, in particular, the field of research and university; an area also with regard to what this 8th historical March has opened up a debate on the expulsion of the talent of women from university and professional careers, as well as teachers and researchers; an area that, in addition, has to be said that qualitatively is very important, both for society and for the impact it has later on the generation of scientific knowledge. And so we come to this bill with two evidences that we have to break: on the one hand, the survival of these discriminations; and on the other hand, a framework that has proved inefficient. Despite the progress made in recent decades, all national and international indicators are warning of a profound inequality in this area. Even though it is tremendously regulated, although in a very important part it is also supported by public funds, that inequality remains. Women in science are few, we're less than we should already by mere statistics. Besides, we receive worse wages, worse funding, and our work is less recognized and less visible. It's also known as "thessasory effect" on the initial layers of the education system and the beginning of the university path. We're mostly, we've got the best results, but what's going on? As we climb up power scales, the paper is becoming relegated. And this trend goes hand in hand with any of the recent studies, such as the 2015 Unencrypted Scientific Report, which certify that even in public universities, women are more represented the lower the category of researchers, and the tendency to the contrary: the higher the category, the higher the hierarchy, the lower the presence. This is also seen in the prevalence of what is known as "vertical segregation." Researchers are underrepresented in all single-person representation bodies. We also see how much progress is needed if we see the positions of leadership of the public university system in Galicia. For example, in the tables the improvement of data is a slowness that cannot be at all satisfactory; in more than ten years, from 2015 to 2017, only increased by an average of 5%. A map of inequality that worsens in the private sector; according to the latest statistics of the Ministry of R & D+i, in 2016 the private sector had only 26% of women. We can therefore conclude — by contrasting all the data — that the framework of what we have given ourselves is insufficient. Failure to apply the laws, public authorities have to be involved. And, as the last link to the chain, there is also a lack of stimulus on private agents. While at the other points on the planet there are changes of course, there are new proposals to be experienced, here the People's Party has condemned us in the opposite direction. Just by quoting some of the international references that Galicia might be looking at, we have the recommendation already in 2001 of the European Technology Assessment Network. Three years ago, in 2015, the European Commission again issued a resolution to urge countries to establish mechanisms for non-discrimination in this area. And also in 2017, the European Institute for Gender Equality implemented a new mechanism for this control, the GEAR. However, the Union is neither expected nor expected, it continues to act as a brake, and it is a paralysis that we have also seen as marked by the socio-economic crisis, which has been used as an alibi not only to curb the budgets of equality but also those of research, which in our country accumulate a cut of 149 million. In view of this scenario, it is obvious that there is a change of course, for justice to all women, but also — and I want to insist on this — for justice to all society, because without correcting this inequality we are creating a culture and a much poorer knowledge, because quality and excellence are not possible if we exclude half the world. Today we are talking about science and we can say that there is no rational or empirical reason not to bet decisively on a paradigm shift where equality is a guiding principle and not an accessory collection. In recent months both the streets and the protagonists of this area should have made us reflect. Since the BNG we have taken the glove and that is why we have put forward a proposal to improve our framework, a reform of the Legislative Decree 5/2015, which is the recast text of our entire equality legislation, and that in the area in which we are occupied today is not only small but not focused on the demands of Galicia in 2018. That's why we propose to change two generic articles by fifteen concrete proposals that address the gender perspective in the university and in research, so as to ensure equal opportunities. We need to overcome stereotypes and biases that exist in research. The naturalization of patriarchy makes it a norm that represents only the male population. And precisely the genre studies of recent times have emphasized this, both in detecting errors in concepts and theories as well as in seeing new plots of reality that enrich us collectively. Because integrating the gender perspective into research will make us have more focused results. That is why we propose measures to support studies and research on gender issues as well as projects in which this perspective is integrated, especially those that extract results for people's lives, so that we will eliminate that gender gap that still exists in the scientific field. It also measures to give visibility to the approaches of women in this area throughout history and in the present, to promote scientific vocation in girls, because you can't want to be what you don't know. We also propose measures aimed at the realization of that principle of equality which is in theory and which is not in reality. For that we think from the BNG that it's absolutely key to looking for gender balance in teams at all levels. That's why we propose positive action measures that promote women's participation and leadership. Also measures that correct the lack of women in the organisms, thus ensuring a balanced participation that avoids what is happening, which is that decision-making at universities and research centres are being excluded. We also propose that evaluation methods, both scientific and staff quality, include issues that prevent us from being discriminated against. And also — and not least for that — to point out that it is essential that the training in all the institutions, both in the academic and scientific fields, should be improved in terms of violence against men and equality. I'm going to finish by now, insisting that in the area we propose there are two issues that focus on our attention and that are very important. On the one hand — I had introduced it now — the question of male violence. We have to keep breaking topics, we have to put specific measures in this area, because any woman — even a prestigious scientist — can suffer masculine violence, and the public authorities must ensure both her early detection and that, if she meets any of the instruments we've been given, she won't be penalized in her career. It also measures to take account of the motherhood situation. We have just been discussing the case of Maria de la Fuente in this House. Since BNG we have insisted: Servet is not the only space where scientists are being discriminated against. That's why it is necessary to ensure that in the process of selecting and evaluating the academic-professional trajectory, time spent on maternity, conciliation, dependency or masculine violence should be excluded; something which, of course, should also benefit many men from conciliation. In conclusion — and I am finished — today we call for a process of reflection and improvement of the legal framework in an area in which their absences shine. This is a basic text that, if there was humility and generosity on the part of the People's Party, we could improve among all political forces. Why should we ask ourselves a question: after March 8 and the fact that in all light in the field of university, research and science, women continue to be discriminated against, and the reduction of this inequality is millimetric, did they notice or not take note? Is there any will or will there be no will on the part of the People's Party to enter this area?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u37	That's the question, and we'll see about it today. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Today we are visited by the students and students of 5th and 6th primary at the Centro Pintor Antonio Fernández, of Goián. We also greet them and the teachers who accompany us. Welcome to Parliament. Now if you have the floor, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I also want to congratulate all the students and teachers who accompany us. As Mrs Presas said and remembered, in March we discussed here the issue of the inequality that still suffers from women in the age of science and research through an interpellation and motion, that if something made it clear that the policies of the People's Party in Galicia were non-existent around this problem; it is more, that she didn't care at all about this problem; that it is even more serious, because one can think about and adopt a series of policies, but she didn't care at all. Good evidence of no concern is that we are not accompanied by any government member to listen to this debate. And, on the other hand, it's an absolutely important debate, and we don't say it, the BNG doesn't say it and it doesn't say it just the Socialist Party and the other groups; we don't even say it just by women; that's what the biggest experts in R & D, research and science in the world are saying it; it's what the European Union is saying, and it's insisting on UNESCO. And that the European Union is saying that these inequalities that still remain in Europe between women and men around science and research are representing a waste of public resources, which endanger scientific objectives to achieve excellence in research and have a remarkable negative influence on the economy, in the consequence that we all want a change in the production model. And, of course — and not less important — it's a clear injustice what's going on. But besides — and I insist — all international bodies, starting with all the bodies of the European Union, see equality of opportunity between men and women as a key strategic step in building the European Research Area. And so they're writing it, and so they're insisting, from that already well-known ETAN Report, which made the drawing of circumstances and inequalities between men and women in science, with a reality that 20 years later practically hasn't changed; yes, it's true that there are percentages that have risen, but reality is exactly the same. Both UNESCO and the European Union have been in the past twenty years, twenty years, insisting on the need for this problem of women's discrimination in science and research to be addressed in an individualized way, for them to have their own treatment within equality programmes, and therefore it is absolutely necessary for all countries to put in place transversal policies on this subject, their own policies, positive and transversal policies that can end with the invisibility and segregation of women in science and research. In this sense, it is true that our legislation does not contemplate these issues. On the other hand, seeing that the People's Party is not willing to do anything here, because if it is true also that the Law on National Science and European Resolutions has these aspects, we believe that it is very good for us, since nothing will be done, since they did not want to accept even one of our proposals, supported also by opposition groups, that these ideas are in a legislative text, that they have to be fulfilled, that they have a rank of law, like — I insist — they are in the Law on Science and the Equality Laws of all the advanced countries. Because also -- I insist -- this is a key element for the development of R & D in any advanced country. He said that all these ideas are maintained and continually insist on them by the different institutions of the European Union, which defend that it is essential to incorporate gender policies into public R & D policies, both in private and public areas, to correct this loss of human capital associated with this inequality in the incorporation of women and their professional development in the fields of research, science and technology. You have to break up with this inequality and you have to break up with it through active policies, because it's no longer worth saying that it's a generational problem, it's no longer worth saying what was said long before: there's a few professors because the woman waited to enter universities, but when the necessary biographic time comes, they'll be there. Look, they're not. There's a rate of women in the highest places too small, especially childish in the presence of women, for example, in universities or in other fields of research. Because that's what the study says that it also named Mrs. Presas and the last one we have, the 2015 Scientific Study of the Ministry of Economics. The students, the women, are mostly among the students in the race. Also among graduates they have better records in absolute numbers than men, they even have more doctoral theses. That makes the first stage of the scientific career even the majority, around 58%. But as we progress in the scale and structure of professional careers, women are globally 25% against men — 75% — both at universities globally and at public research centres. And it's true what Mrs. Presas says. We know this reality worse in the business world, but it's very similar when it's not even worse. It is the vertical segregation which has already defined the ETAN Report in 2001 and which is still unresolved. But there is one element in our country, in Spain, also in Galicia, which I think must also be underlined, which is that scientific women form 39% of the scientific community, but that figure, that percentage has been unmovable for ten years; ten years in which nothing has been done in this role of women within scientific communities. That's what we could add to any list that gives us the verification of this data as well. National Research Awards: from 1982 to 2014, 103 prizes, 8 are women. And so we can continue in all respects. This reality in Galicia is even worse — and I want to underline it. I said it in March, I want to repeat it again, because we have to think about this situation, because we have to fix this situation. According to INE data, the number of women researchers in the universities in Greece has fallen 16% between 2009 and 2016, which is the last year of what we have data. This drop, this decrease is five times greater than it happened in the set of Spain, which is 3.62%. Here's another hidden reality: the economic crisis, the decline in income from universities and public research institutes has fundamentally affected women, much more women than men. And yet I would also like to remind you of the European Parliament's last resolution of 2015, which marked a number of important measures for all countries: incorporating the gender dimension into research programmes, removing legal and other barriers to recruitment — including, of course, maternity, family care — to eliminate barriers to recruitment and retention of staff, advance measures, career boosting, implementing global structural change strategies in order to correct inequalities. From our point of view, these measures are in this bill that the BNG is presenting right now. Beyond that if we can form a presentation and treat this text, I think we have contributions from the socialists that we could take into account, but aside from that, we will of course support this bill. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u41	Thank you, President. Good morning. We're also going to support this non-law proposal, because we understand that it improves the current legislation. And first of all, we also want to thank all those women who, with much personal effort, opened our doors to many others. And also, every time we talk about measures that make us move towards a more feminist society, as we understand that it can be this, we think it's also about recognizing and keeping in mind the historic mobilization that we lived this 8th March, not only this 8th March, but all the mobilizations of many women, but we're doing special fincapé in it, because we understand that this 8th March marked one before and one after the political moment. Today we are debating a proposal focused on a field that is still being masculine, unfortunately. In fact, on March 8th, many Greek women from the universities also stopped and gathered their motives in a manifesto that I recommend reading to everyone and to everyone. The reasons remained. By listing only a few, they stopped because, unfortunately, in universities women continue to receive lower wages, have more precarious contracts and also have more obstacles and still have more difficulties in accessing the funding of their research. Implicit gender prejudices are still present in the process of selection, evaluation, accreditation, even in publishing articles and calls for presentations. There are many reasons, many have been mentioned here today. The European Union itself is systematically alerting these inequalities and we understand that we must take urgent action. At this point, all groups are in the process of working on a presentation by the Equality Commission to try to improve the current legislation. And I am referring to this committee because it has often been used as a pretext for not giving certain debates in this plenary session. And it seems to me that this argument is absurd, and I mention it because I believe that if we adopted this proposal today, it would open up to us the opportunity to go deep into a very important area and that it would be absolutely complementary to the work we are doing in this presentation. And as I said, we're talking about an area that is essential and fundamental. Teaching is one of the key agents -- we have said so many times in this plenary -- because of the ability to reach many people, to a very broad part of society. Teaching is fundamental to perpetuating, unfortunately many times, roles, but also, when there is training, it can help to break these roles. In addition, we understand that the measures proposed today are acceptable to all groups, are basic measures of common sense that we understand that should be accepted despite the nuances in which we can then deepen if the process passes, but we understand that the basis must start from the agreement; simply requires a gender perspective in an area where it should already be collected by itself. And, as I said, the data doesn't give rise to any doubts. There is a very important gap between the rhetoric that sets out the principles of equality and then the effectiveness of the instruments to achieve this end. We live in a kind of mirrorism of equality that must be broken. There are still many inequalities to be seen. And it's very significant that only 23% of the professors in Galicia are women. With data on access to universities of men and women and, however, later, when we get to these high management controls, there's this roof, as we often speak, not of crystal, but of concrete, which costs a lot to break. And, as I say, I'm not going to focus on the quantitative part of the data -- many of them were exposed to their own explanatory statement, and there are a lot of studies that account for this situation -- to focus on the qualitative part, because I understand that this is also where we have to look for the reasons that are at the bottom of these inequalities. And for that, I'm going back to the statement I made at the beginning that teaching is a fundamental agent and teaching has an influence throughout our lives, many times certain that much broader than rationally we can think. Many decisions I think are based on the learning we have at school. And we have to ask ourselves why women should be the ones we mostly care for. And when we talk about care, I mean inside the house. And in this part I'm not going to influence the care that is done inside the house, but I'm also going to refer to something that is more invisible perhaps, which is why women care mostly outside the house, why women decide to study some professions and men decide to study others. Free choice is a fallacy and we have to break up with what we're studying about. This is totally false, because if it was free, if we are equal, why are we mostly women who are systematically nurses, social workers, doctors, social educators, etc.Is that what you're talking about? Why are we always the ones we took care of and why, if the choice was free... I would ask for a little silence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know what offended her, but the data is there. I'm a nurse, it's no offense. No, no, I'm a professional nurse, but I also understand... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u42	No, no, no dialogue, no dialogue. It's a great profession, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u43	It's a wonderful profession, yes, it would be more missing; social education, medicine, are all equally valid professions. But we'll have to think about why women mostly choose these careers and why there's such a low percentage of women, for example, in technological studies. If we really think it's by chance and by chance of life, I don't believe in chance. I don't think there's this free choice. And, as I say, I'm a nurse — all about all these professions — but I think the data shows that behind the elections there are a number of mechanisms that operate so that formative itineraries are one or the other. And I think the reasons why some women choose some professions and men choose other professions are, for example, in images, in roles that have been incorporated since we were born. There's the toys, there's the media, there's all the stereotyped images that women are born to take care of. And, as I say, when there's gender training or roles, they can break up from school. Why – we have to ask ourselves too – are there fewer women leaders in research projects? I think the answer is multiple, it can't be simplified, but some of the reasons can be, for example, because children also learn from the roles of scientists. We know in many textbooks many scientific men, we know very few scientific women. Too many times the textbooks silence many women who have made great progress. And it also has to do with being a woman with a series of roles. And a very clear example is that women, for example, are controlled, with connotations, of course, negative. Men are leaders and good leaders. This also has to do with women not reaching certain positions of leadership and leadership and certain spaces. And it also has to do with the difficulties of conciliation. There are many women who can't access certain charges because maternity today continues to penalize us. And it also keeps penalizing us to take care of our mother, to look after our father, to take care of our father-in-law, etc. And against this, obviously, there is a need for measures to ensure that care is never a negative factor for women. On the other hand, I wanted to do special fincapé in the need to support, invest much more in specific gender studies. In fact, it's a very new thing -- ten years since they were implemented -- but there's still a lot of effort left to do in this kind of study, to consolidate it, to increase it. And there are a lot of measures that must be taken forward so that this may be so, but I think they start from a common base, which is to recognize the importance and value that they have. Too often these studies are not valued and are still seen as secondary studies, and the data are there, research, support. And we have to put this kind of study on the top priority on the top scale because, if we often say that to intervene in reality we have to know the reality well, this type of study is fundamental to ending gender inequalities. I'm done. I hope that we can continue to debate for the kid about all these measures to put in place. There's a lot to do and I remember again: I think we owe all of our advances to many women who with much effort were seen as intruders, at some moments in their lives: Ana Maria Prieto, Alicia Estévez, Angeles Albarinño, María Isabel Fernández, Celia Braña, Mabel Loza, Olimpia Valencia and so many others who have to occupy all the textbooks, which have to occupy pages, which have to be recognized. And, of course, I go back to clarifying, because I saw how much change: it seems to me quite significant that a statement is not understood as that women mostly choose professions and men other professions. I really think there's a need to think about why this can be offensive, that at all, or, if it's not for that, then don't interrupt while you're talking from the rostrum. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, and as a matter of precedent, speaking of sensitivity, I wanted to repudiate a machist comment that has been made in this gallery this morning, in connection with a minister, a woman who was ministers in 1996, when being political was not easy and when reaching a ministry a woman was not easy either. We came from a socialist government that had three ministers, we passed on to a government of the People's Party with four ministers and one with an environment only for the Ministry, when we came from a ministry of three: Public Works, Transport and Environment — by the way, Mr Borrell — and if you criticize the use of the footman. That's a macho comment, do a woman or do a man. Because micromachisms have to be eliminated, and in this gallery, ladies and gentlemen, it has a lot of impact on everything we say. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Because I think you can criticise a woman in her professional activity. For example, the president of the Socialist Party, who was Minister of Environment and is now being investigated for the illegal financing of the Socialist Party, that is political criticism. And talking about a minister's comb is a macho critique, it's a macho comment. And I hope that now, that we are in the process of appointing ministers, Mr. Sánchez does not name women ministers as Mr. Zapatero did, for example, when Mr. César Antonio Molina was replaced by Mrs. Ángeles González Sinde and said textually Mr. César Antonio Molina: "Zapatero said he needed a young girl and glamour." [[Applause]] I hope Mr. Sánchez is a little more responsible and names women ministers because they are valid, because they are women who have specific weight and not because they are neither young nor because they bring glory to a socialist government. [[Applause]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, you can put in place again a Ministry of Equality -- I will rejoice now, whenever it is not political marketing, as Mr Zapatero did on his day, because it was also the first ministry he suppressed when he was called to order from Europe, because he was spending a lot. What did he do? Frozen pensioners' pensions, lowered their salary to officials and abolished the Ministry of Equality. Good. Madam Presas, to move forward in equality, you don't have to... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u46	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u47	I think I've been listening respectfully to everyone, I haven't interrupted anyone; I would appreciate the same respect that is requested in this gallery for others, the same respect for those who are in the use of the word. To move forward on an equal footing, Mrs. Presas, there is no need to pass a lot of laws. You yourself said so in this rostrum. He said, legitimate equality is not real equality. In fact, we have a lot of legislation on equality, what we have to do is develop it and fulfill it, but not every two because they're legislating and implementing laws if we have a lot of legislation that can support what you're claiming here today. You are based on data from a 2001 report. More recent publications than the ETAN report. For example, there is the study "Gender Salary and Scientific Break", of the Business Equality Bulletin of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality. There's a study by the Union -- there's more Galicia, you're also nationalist, and you're focusing a little bit on Galicia -- "The situation of women in Galicia's science-technology-enterprise system." Mrs. Quinteiro, I don't share what you said here. You said -- and it's recorded and it'll stay in the Journal of Sessions -- that women today can't study what they want, but at the same time you said you were a vocation nurse. Look, I'm a professional lawyer, I have companions in the seats who are engineers, our companion Marta Novoa is an industrial engineer, and it's by vocation, there are socialist companions who are architects, a companion of hers who just took possession is an architect. I want to think we're all vocational. Mrs. Quinteiro, today women can study what they want. If you tell me what happened before, I can agree with you. There are other problems today. They may not get to the grades by the college court or whatever, but that's what happens to men and women. But besides, you know that through academic data women have better academic records than men, and you know it perfectly, because — you put the case of medicine, which is one of the highest cut-up cases — who essentially accesses it? [[Murmurs.]] Women, because they have the files and the highest grades, Mrs. Quinteiro. [[Applause]] That's why I don't agree with you about the approach you just made here. And if we're talking about personal data and R & D researchers, we have to highlight the IGE data that there are more women than before and that the number of women is growing. For example, in R & D personnel, in 2015 there were 9,038 and in 2016, 9,367 women were 3,792 and in 2016 3,806. As for researchers, in 2015, there were 5,368 in total; in 2016, 5,783; and women, from 2,154 in 2015, rose to 2,212. It's true that there are problems, it's true that there are difficulties, of course; I agree with all of you. There's a horizontal segregation, it determines professions that have underrepresentation of women, but that doesn't mean that women can't access engineering, it doesn't mean that women can't access architectural studies or technical and technological studies of new technologies, mathematics and so on. There's also vertical segregation. I agree, indeed. The proportion of women decreases when the level of responsibility increases. It is true that the presence of women also decreases if the age level is also considered, which could be explained by the greater incorporation of younger women into the different fields of research. The number of female researchers who are mothers also decreases. That debate we've had here before, I'm not going back in, because we've even made some decisions and we've taken some measures in that regard. And at the university, although students at initial research levels are mostly women, their percentage is decreasing as they increase on the scale. It's true. Well, we have to take action in that direction. Now, the black Galician who painted us here Mrs. Presas, frankly, Mrs. Presas, no, because she looks, they're taking action, there's plans in progress. I'll tell you about three concrete blocks. First, Galicia's VII Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men 2017-2020 includes a goal in this direction: to stimulate the incorporation and permanence of women's professional promotion in the academic, scientific, technological and creative fields; in particular, women's momentum and incorporation into project development teams in the technology and innovation sectors of the company and research; to develop actions to stimulate women's integration into new digital professions; to enhance women's active policies for support, participation and professional promotion in the field of culture, artistic and intellectual production; to recognize Welsh women and technologists and to promote their image in society as women's referees. In the various axes, in the strategic area 3, that of equal employment and innovation, there is an budget of 105 million euros. And, Mrs. Presas, when she talks about women's and science prizes, they haven't been eliminated, because, as you know, the Josefa Wonenburger Prize also awards women and science; the last prize was Begoña Vila, NASA, Mrs. Presas. But there's also a 2nd German Women's and Science Program 2016-2020, which has 9 million euros, which you didn't have, because you're complaining about a prize here, but we're talking about a program that has lots of issues that I can't report for lack of time. Third, the French Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan 2018-2020, with EUR 848,755,000, Your Honor. Therefore, Galicia is working to promote equality, to fight against discrimination, and that's making it a government of the People's Party, bad for them. In particular, in the university area, it happens, ladies and gentlemen, that universities are entities belonging to the public institutional sector, and the Constitution recognises autonomy. The three universities in Galicia have an equal office: the University of Santiago, the University of Coruña and the Equality Unit of the University of Vigo. The three Greek universities have an equal plan, the three Greek universities have a protocol against sexual harassment. Ladies and gentlemen, you refer in your exhibition to Professor Luciano Méndez. The Galician Union, specifically... yes... they referred to this subject. [[Murmurs.]] But I would like to say that specifically on this subject, since we're talking about university, I reject the comments that this gentleman has made. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And if we talk about it, you know that the General Secretariat of Equality has sent two letters to the University to be interested in the moment he made some macho comments about a student and now with Manada's sentence, and the University has not responded. So university autonomy is there, and neither the Government nor this Parliament can get us into university autonomy. I'm done. Junta already has instruments -- I know you're very interventional, but look, we're not the ones who have to do this job, it's the ones who have to do it, it's the others who haven't; I already know that you're interventional by nature. Finally, the Union already has instruments within its competence to promote equality between all areas, as well as to bet on bringing responsibility to all professional institutions, but it is necessary to address this work without invading its own competences and university autonomy. So in the People's Parliamentary Group we are going to reject this initiative because we believe that there is an introduction of competence, because universities have their own autonomy to make their own decisions and even, if they consider it, to create the inter-university working table proposed on this initiative, and the Government cannot interfere or impose on universities the creation of tables, since it is a decision that is up to the universities themselves. Yes, the university is faced with making its own decisions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And as for the empowerment of science, scientists and research women, ladies and gentlemen, there are — as I have just told you — three blocks in which the Galician Union, in its competence, is already doing so. In the competences of university autonomy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u49	...not the Council of Galicia or this Parliament can interfere. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Author group of the bill, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u51	Well, thank the voices of En Marea and the Socialist Party for their support and constructive approaches. And to say, as an initial reflection, that the attitude and level of the Government Group's debate on this initiative reflects that it is more necessary than ever. First, Mrs Prado, came here to oppose Mr. Pedro Sánchez, accusing a machist comment, which I cannot judge because I have not listened to him at the moment, but seeing — I will listen to the video, Mrs. Prado — worse questions, that is, at last! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] And then, instead of rectifying the comments of the plutocene that came out of this bench as Mrs. Quinteiro spoke of En Marea, she reaffirmed it. [[Murmurs.]] Look, it's a barbarity to deny in the middle of the 21st century, contradicting the very theoretical plans of the Galician Union and contradicting all European recommendations and all studies on gender in research, which women's scientific vocation is not diminished by social conditioners. It's an absolute nonsense! [[Applause]] What we like about women, we also said that women liked to be locked up in the house, and that women didn't like to vote. [[Applause]] I'm going to argue! [[Applause]] Yes, what a shame, indeed, what a shame! [[Applause]] It is a shame that you feel one in this Parliament with the issues that are being heard. [[Murmurs.]] On the excuse of the generation, I won't say anything anymore, because it was well explained by the Voice Lady of the Socialist Party. But it must be added that it also does influence a little bit on access and freedom to access to university today the economic situation, which is responsible for the policies of the People's Party. That's what it does. [[Applause]] Yes, indeed. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Well, more questions we wanted to comment on. I was telling Mrs. Prado a comment where I'm partly going to give her some reason. He said it wasn't necessary, sometimes, to legislate because we could implement issues that weren't directly legislative and so on. Indeed, this proved it to be a responsible government for equality policies, which had instruments to advance in this field and which was vanguarded. The point is, you didn't just paralyze that, you didn't develop anything else. And what is required in this initiative is not a new law, it is to develop an aspect of the current legal framework. You also said that there was no need to extend the aid of male violence twelve months a year, and at the end they had to give reason, and they had to learn, they had to approve a legal amendment to the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Applause]] Then he said something like that, of course, if they were quoting things out of place in the explanatory statement. Look, the recommendations of ETAN, which are the starting point and the vanguard on which the other European and international regulations have been implemented in this area, are cited. It's the base. But I want to put the accent on a question. In the explanatory statement of this law — which I believe you have been confused with some other text coming to this House — a study by the Galician Union is cited. This is a very complete study by the Galician Union on the university field. Yeah, you know what year? of 2008, because you didn't want to update this study. Because you haven't done a qualitative and quantitative study at all comparable to that study, and what you're not studying is what you're not talking about and what you're not seeing. In any case, I gave this House up-to-date data like, for example, the one about college chairs, and you only have excuses. He talks about the plans of the Board, and here we have to say that they are again fearful targets, and I'm going to set an example. We discussed it in this House in the defence of Mr.Economy, Employment and Industry — which is a pity that is not within the framework of the 2020 Plan, innovation — and what absences he had. We also discuss this in the context of the questions of the Women's and Science Programme, which are plans for the Galician Union to set by 2020 a reduction in the salary divide in the field of June by 20.5%, which is only two points less than the reference value of 2014. That's the pace you want us to move forward, move forward by spontaneous generation or by questions that come to other administrations. But we want equality in the field of science and we want it already, and we want to be demanding with ourselves and with the Government team so that there are proposals on the table. And besides, it's amazing how they manipulate. You say I said there wasn't a woman's and science prize. No, no, I said it's the only thing you're keeping from that show. It's the only one! [[Applause]] That's what I said. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Then the university autonomy. University autonomy for what they want, in order to come here to boast of masters and programs from the universities developed in the field of their competence, is not worth university autonomy, but to say that we cannot apply such questions as those mentioned, that if there are other legal frameworks — Mrs Burgo the state — we cited international examples — we cited here, the university autonomy itself. Look, you have no excuse. I'm out of time. But, of course, what we can conclude is that you're reactionaries, because neither do they nor let you do, that's the summary of your attitude with a proposal that could be debated, which would also come out that you wanted and that could focus on measures on the table. [[Applause]] Measures that were willing you could be developing through the Women's and Science Program or through any other program. But that, however, giving him the rank of law would be tremendously symbolic and would send a positive message out.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u53	And it is a barbarity to look at financial autonomy — and finally, Mr President — when we are talking about the principle of non-discrimination on the basis of sex, which is universally recognized in all legal fields; therefore, if there is a capacity for dialogue and intervention. What you don't have is neither will nor too much shame. (Applause. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We shall vote on the legislative texts. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia, on the tax on single-use plastic bags in Galicia. Vote on the proposal for a law of the G.P. the Galician Socialists, the tax on single-use plastic bags in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u55	We are now voting on the proposed legislation of the Galician Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group, which amends Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 12 February, and therefore approves the recast text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia on equality in order to introduce positive action measures in the field of university and research. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, amending Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 12 February, and approving the consolidated text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in the field of equality, to introduce positive action measures in the field of university and research. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal for a law is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u56	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. And we moved on to point 2 of the agenda, from appearances. Like Mr Social Policy Adviser, on his own request, to report on policies for support to families and to conciliation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u57	The Social Policy Adviser has the floor to make this appearance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u58	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The commitment of the Galician Union for the Greek families to have sufficient and quality resources at their disposal to facilitate reconciliation is one of the essential pillars of the social policies that this government is developing. In this sense, the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020, a roadmap that marks the orientation of public policies linking the entire Executive cross-sectionally, sets, among its priority axes of action, the improvement of social services directed to families and children, as well as the momentum of active reconciliation measures. In line with this order, the family area has long taken a prominent place in self-investment, it is a weight in the public accounts that has been even more accentuated since the creation of the Social Policy Council. From the financial year 2015 to the present, the cumulative growth of economic items for family and conciliation policies has increased by 54% to EUR 133 million in the current year. No Government of Galicia has ever sent so many economic resources to the family, to children and to conciliation like this. We led this increase in the social investment of this government to consolidate with aids, programs and services that are already under way and to articulate new services. The action of this government is centered in this area on six objectives, which I will break down below: First, to provide the families with the services, resources and measures needed to support their role in society, paying special attention to single-parent and mono-manent families and numerous families. Secondly, as a second major objective, to respond to the needs of families in special situations. We're talking about special situations when in a family there are people with disabilities, or when in a family there is a risk of social exclusion, a child poverty situation can occur. Third objective is to establish mechanisms for support for motherhood and paternity, which are essential for the development of families. Fourthly, to promote parents and mothers to have tools to facilitate the reconciliation of personal and family life. And also, of course, not only conciliation, but also co-responsibility. Fifthly, to promote new models of family education to improve patterns in the upbringing of children based on positive parenthood. And sixthly, to raise awareness of society, in general, of the importance of the family and its impact on the society of well-being, in the present but also on the future of all, because to have a good social policy, the family remains an indispensable instrument. Even so, and within the legislative field, it should be noted that in this parliament the Family Law was approved in 2011, with which the regulations adapted to the variety of family models that exist today, and with which the rights of the Greek society were extended. Thus, this new legislation gives special consideration to five family models with the aim of safeguarding the rights of all of them, establishing a series of considerations that did not meet the 1997 Law. These five family models are: numerous families, single parents, foster families, dependent families or families with people with disabilities. As for numerous families, this executive is committed to their support for these families, and they are of particular importance in the revitalization, too, of the population, coming — as you know — to many more children in the middle, in the case of numerous families a minimum of three children. In Galicia, a total of 23,820 families are registered today, 25% more registered than three years ago. And right now I can announce that we are developing a second strategy of support that has continued to the present one, which has been underway since 2013, and that has allowed the development of half a hundred measures that have combined an investment of more than EUR 30 million for that special attention of our numerous families. In addition, in collaboration with the Galaga Association of Numerous Families — Agafan — we have launched the Family Carne program, which facilitates access to goods, services and products through discounts and other kinds of advantages, and which expands and complements the benefits that the official title of a large family gives. About 1,160 entities collaborate with this program that manages Agafan for the Galician Union and in which more than 70,600 wallets have already been shipped. Second family characteristic, single parent and single parent families. These are becoming more and more important in our society, and we're taking them very seriously in the new aids and programs we're developing. So, for example, in the case of the Welcome Card, which raises their ratios to their attention not to a single amount of the family unit, but also to a per capita amount. In this area too, I can announce our commitment to drawing up a plan that supports these parents and mothers similar to what we have for many families. With this intention, we will first create the accreditation register for single-parent and single-manent families in Galicia. Third, a third characteristic of the family, the welcoming families. They are a priority for this government, among other reasons because they are an example of solidarity and generosity with children, children and adolescents who need protection, care and affection most. That is why we decided to provide EUR 1,000,000 plus the budget for the remuneration of host families, reaching EUR 3.4 million for this year 2018. It is worth noting that in the past exercise we have already achieved a 9% increase over 2016, which has allowed us to increase the remuneration of child shelters in the largest age group, which is from three to eighteen years. So in this area, we will be able to guarantee public funding for 25% of the more than a hundred welcoming families we currently have in Galicia, and that they are the lighthouse, precisely, to improve our percentage of family reception on the percentage of residential admission. We think that for children, children and adolescents who don't have or can't be with their families right now, the best destination is a foster family, and that's why we're giving it priority over entry into residential centers. With this investment this year — I tell you — we will be able to finance 95% of the families that are helping this government, but also throughout Galicia, in fulfilling this objective. And in the fourth and fifth group of families with special consideration that contemplates the law in force are those who have dependent people in the bosom of their families or with disabilities. And in this case, as another general direction of the same council, the effort of the Galician Council is to increase this year by 10% of its own resources for the attention of dependency and disability, which will exceed the four hundred and thirteen million euros this year, which will allow us to reach — as you know — a 90 percent dependency ratio this year. In the last fact that we know of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality in April, our ratio was already 84%, so we're going in the right direction and we're currently seven points above the average of the autonomous communities that make up Spain. In addition, the policies of the Union, in the field of the family, are also incorporated into the demographic perspective, as is reflected in the Strategic Plan that was reported to them at the beginning of my intervention, the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020, in the proposals being developed in the Programme of Support for Birth — the Galician PAN — and in the recently presented Plan for Conciliation and Co-responsibility. I will deepen these proposals later, but it must be pointed out that the measures taken directly by the Council of Galicia are also accompanied, as it cannot be otherwise, by actions at national level, where there are many powers, and supranational, within the European Union. In the Spanish context Galicia leads, with other autonomous communities—with Asturias, Aragon, Castile-A Mancha, Extremadura, Castela-León, Cantabria and A Rioxa—, the Forum of Spanish Regions with Demographic Challenges. So far, six meetings have been held in which the following agreements have been reached: firstly, to promote the development of a joint strategic framework. Secondly, to raise the agreements to the institutions and networks of the European Union in which the autonomous signatory communities participate. Thirdly, ask the Government of Spain to develop a national strategy for demographic change from which the autonomous administrations and the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces form part. Fourthly, ask the Government of Spain for demographic criteria to be taken into account in autonomic financing and more resources for rural development policies because of their cross-cutting nature and direct involvement in the vertebration and management of the territory. At this point Galicia — as you know — has already proposed the creation of a demographic cohesion fund that takes into account the dispersion of our population and aging. Fifthly, we agreed to open a debate on depopulation in the Senate and Congress. And sixthly, to seek the essential European involvement in territorial rebalancing. At European level, the Galician Union is part of the European Network of Regions Affected by Demographic Change through the Council. An open network formed by regional offices throughout Europe, based in Brussels, interested in the impact of demographic change. Today, the 40 regions that consider demographic trends — which have a great deal to do with family policies — constitute a major challenge for European and social cohesion and which must be taken into account at all levels of decision-making, from the local level, the autonomous level, the state level and the European level. The Autonomic Administration also actively participates in the Pact on Demographic Change promoted by the AFE-INFOVET thematic network, in addition to the objective of promoting the culture of innovative solutions based on empirical data to support active and healthy aging, as well as to develop contours adapted to older people in the European Union. Even so, we participate in the meetings of the working group on demographic change and ageing created within the framework of the Macroregion of the European South-West — the Resoe — by integrating this group, in addition to the Galician Union, the Northern Region and the Central Region of Portugal, and the Spanish autonomous communities that we share a very similar situation in this area, such as Castile-Leon and the Principality of Asturias. This working group aims to raise additional European funds through entrepreneurial and economic dynamisation projects. In short, this government is well aware of the importance of the demographic issue. In this sense, he works with the conviction that supporting families, protecting children and promoting reconciliation is to create a favourable social environment that promotes demographic dynamization. That's what we can push from the Social Policy Council. Ladies and gentlemen, we are looking for Galicia to be one of the best places to care for families. We want our community to continue its vanguard in family support and conciliation policies. And in achieving this goal, we are taking important steps, right steps, steps that are translated into facts — not just words — that indicate that we still have a lot to do in the right direction. But I wanted to give you a data, and I wanted to let you know — although many will already know it — the report that was published last week by the University of Vigo on "Family Policies in Spain", of which Alberto Vaquero García and Santiago Lago Peñas are authors, who analyzed the family protection policies in Spain and are in the sphere of the organization for the cooperation and economic development of OECD and the European Union, and who conclude that Galicia is among the autonomous communities that bet for greater support to families. They establish in their study two groups of autonomous communities, the first would be made up of Castela-León, Galicia and the Valencian Community, where they find that the allocations and resources to support the family are very important. And the second, where another group of autonomous communities registers — as you can imagine — much less service effort and much less investment effort than the first group of communities, where, fortunately, today, after the economic crisis, Galicia finds itself. Ladies and gentlemen, nobody escapes that in recent decades there have been important changes in the family model. This has assumed new roles for men and women, with important implications for families and society in general. The governments, the legislative chambers and public representatives must be aware of these changes and we must also act to respond to the new needs that are presented. The first step that the Social Policy Council launched in 2015, as soon as it was created, was precisely to launch the birth support programme, the Galician NAP. A comprehensive and global planning that seeks to respond to the needs of the mother and the Greek parents and to contribute to the well-being of families and support them in an integral and continuous way. These proposals include three areas of action in which we continue to work and we continue to increase our investment to respond to a program that cannot be words, but must be done, and made accompanied by budgetary efforts. It is precisely the biggest budgetary margin we have in Galicia right now to maintain a good economic policy that allows us to devote more resources than ever to social policy, and more resources than ever to policies to support the family; precisely to meet that aspiration of this government and that aspiration of our president that Galicia is a better place to live and, above all, a better place to have a family. Among the facts, I would like to highlight in this audience the impulse to the resource network for 0-3-year-olds. Secondly, the consolidation of the conciliation network in our rural areas through the children's houses. Thirdly, support for business institutions to open up children's schools in industrial areas. Fourthly, the increase in the Council Bonus to ensure zero waiting list in funds that families have to receive to register their children in a Galician childhood school. Fifthly, the Bono Care programme — which does not exist in any other autonomous community in Spain — provides assistance to families to cover the cost of caring for their children and children at home. Sixthly, the creation, consolidation and extension of the Welcome Card to support parents and mothers in the basic expenditure on their children's upbringing during their first year of life, which we have just expanded to three years, as we committed ourselves to the past autonomous elections. Seventhly, the establishment of new investment lines for the improvement of childcare infrastructures in other administrations — I am referring to the municipalities and social-initiative bodies — I am talking about. Fourthly, the conciliation proceedings, which are taken up in the first Greek Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan, led by the Vice-Presidentship area, and in which, of course, the Social Policy Council was also involved. He spoke before a higher offer of squares in children's schools. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is working very hard on consolidating, improving and constantly expanding the network of public schools in children, as it is an essential pier to facilitate the reconciliation of family and work life. Without a sufficient supply of squares there cannot be a real and effective policy to promote reconciliation, so we are increasing the number of public squares. Galicia will count on the next 2018-2019 course with 10,264 squares in children's schools of the network The blue hen for children 0-3 years, more than double that existed in school 2008-2009, where there were 5,035 squares. Therefore, at this moment the public squares of the network The blue hen of the Galician Union have increased in these years, despite the economic difficulties that have occurred in the first years, by 104 per cent; therefore, there is — I believe — a clear and evident bet of the public squares in Galicia. A public square bet for the reconciliation of this growing government, but that's not yet satisfactory and that's why we keep working day by day. [[Applause]] Therefore, as you know, in the next school, new infant schools will be incorporated into the public network of children's schools in the Town Hall of Santiago, in the Town Hall of Lugo, in the Town Hall of Ourense, in the Town Hall of the Road and in the Town Hall of Mos. In this way, we will continue to move forward in our legislative goal of creating, also in this legislation, a thousand new public school squares, and so far we have already, at this half of the legislation, 60% of the accomplished target, which matches the number of squares also with the ratio of care, which is the instrument that measures, let's say, at European level, the commitment to conciliation and commitment to child school squares. They know that there is a 33% European Union-recommended ratio, they know that our goal for this legislation was to achieve the 40% ratio; I can tell them that at the moment we overcome this goal of all legislation and that, as we have achieved at the moment, what we are going to continue to work on, precisely, to continue to increase this ratio of care in public schools of a child's character in Galicia. As for the Bono Concilia — as I told you — that our ratio is higher does not mean that at this moment every time there is an offer of squares by the Autonomous Community, by universities and by local corporations, there is no waiting list, precisely, in the entire public network that exists of children's squares. What we guarantee with the Bono Concilia is that all those families who are on the waiting list will get public funds to pay the child's school of their choice and offer our commitment that no family will have public resources to be able to reconcile public resources to take their son or daughter to a child's school. In this 2017-2018 course there are more than three thousand six hundred families who received the Council Bonus. By the way, a thousand more than in the previous course, and in this course we're going to make an investment in the Council Bonus of 4.3 million euros. But I'm telling you that this is a far-reaching game, because we will give all the good compromises needed to ensure that this year, like the previous year, no Galician family will have economic difficulties to take their child or child to a child school, because it will be a better education for their child or for their child, and because we will launch all the conciliation policies, precisely, that are related to that coverage of universalization of children's schools in Galicia. And we're also creating new ways of conciliation, being an example, really, in rural contours and business contours. In rural surroundings, through our network -- you can call it "Network of nesting houses" -- forty-six that exist right now, in another fifteen processing. So we're talking about a lot of municipalities that up until now have no public redress and that now they have it, which are very important because they provide a service, first, free of charge to families. Secondly, because I am a clear example of the commitment of this government because in rural municipalities there are the same resources as in cities. Thirdly, because they constitute support for entrepreneurs in rural localities with social projects like this one, which are also a source of employment generation and wealth generation. And fourthly, because they create opportunities to retain and attract new population in the Italian countryside, thus promoting territorial rebalancing. Assemble the implantation of children's homes, which are, I say, our example of rural action, we are also pushing, along with our business fabric, new infant schools into industrial polygons. They're new times, as I told them in our intervention, new times because they're changing the characteristics of the family, they're changing ways of understanding the care of the children and understanding the care of the children. And we have also, since the Galician Union, to raise awareness of business, that conciliation must also be present in its working media. That's why there's no better way to start sensitizing than orders of help like the one we're creating. We have at this moment, after two calls, three schools located in the scientific-technological park of the River of Pozo, in Narón, in the industrial polygon of Tomato, in the Poor of Caraminal, and in the industrial polygon of the Pontevédres municipality of Mos, the last two already open and two in construction phase, which soon — soon – will be underway for the next course. So we're working with another series of business parks, precisely, to exhaust the call and get to the next course four more. So, this is an incipient program that we hope that it will get more and more welcomed, because from our point of view reconciliation will be more and more present in working relationships. Then, too, a very important thing, which is to improve infrastructure. Not only is it about having more and more squares, but our squares meet more and more quality criteria. What we want is that the facilities that accommodate our children and our children are not only attended to by magnificent professionals, that we have them, but also that the facilities are the best, and that's why we're currently processing two aid calls worth more than one million euros to improve the infrastructures they host, precisely, all these infantry schools, not only ours, the blue chicken network, but also those of the municipalities that collaborate with the Galician Union, precisely so that we can deliver a better reconciliation policy, a better family-help policy. Also with important economic measures, where the Welcome Card highlights. One of the main actions that this council has developed, in the wake of the birth support program, is precisely this direct help. Since its implementation two years ago, this measure has covered about 80 percent of the families that had a child or a child from Galicia. At the two previous calls, in the 2016 and 2017 calls, a total of 30,000 children and children from Galicia received the Welcome Card, which served to assist in the initial expenses of new Greeks and new Greeks, which was also improving in their recipients. In 2017, the assumption that they are entitled to help was extended, collecting as beneficiaries, in addition to families that had a child or adopted a child, those who are in situations of waiting for adoption purposes, and the places where they also use the card, adding childcare or specializing in children's products, pharmacies, parapharmacies, supermarkets and food shops collected in the previous call. In the 2018 exercise, where we meet, we also present improvements and enlargements. The most important, of course, was our commitment to extend it to three years for all those families who have incomes below 22,000 euros, and also to make an exceptionality when we speak of Greeks who reside abroad, who are computed not from the moment of birth, but from the moment of return. In addition, this year we launched a public call for membership for the expansion of the benefits of the Welcome Card and we are finalizing a new improvement that will allow us to extend the Welcome Card to families who adopt a child in the national or international process, regardless of age. Another resource — as I told you — is unique throughout Spain is the Bono Care. The Bono Care is a program that enables us to have this resource not only from the children's school, not only to take children to a child's school, but to their own home, through public support. So we also look like a very innovative program, a program that we copy from our Home Help Service for our seniors, but in this case addressed to families. In the third group of economic aid I would like to highlight the single payment for each child under three years of age for families who do not have the obligation to submit the IRPF declaration, the deduction in full autonomy for each child born or adopted in the tax period, the exemption from the payment in children's schools for the second child who attends the same centre or the 20% discount for single-parent and single-marrent families, the expansion of bonus rates in children's schools, which will enter into force in the next course. That is, in September 25% when the family has two children and 50% when it's a large family, that is, from the third child. The increase also of maternity leave to twenty-two weeks for the Galician board staff, thus marking a path that we wish to follow the other administrations, as well as businesses, and the promotion of telework and facilities to accommodate the time flexibility, in which the board goes before the General Government of the State, which today has not fully implemented it. We have had it since the year 2014, then only Balearics, Castile-Leon, Extremes and the Basque Country; since then there have been two new autonomous communities, Aragon and Valencia, but it seems to us that this is the path that we have to continue to work on, and so we have to continue to raise awareness of the set of administrations so that in many cases there will be further actions of family policies, conciliation policies and co-responsibility policies that started this government in our community. In short, the Greek families today have more support than ever before for their development, especially those families, besides, who have more needs, because, of course, their impulse and their attention correspond to a council and a government with a great social vocation. We want our community to be a place to continue to improve precisely those reconciliation policies, so we've reached that 41% child care ratio. We will continue to develop innovative programmes such as the Bono Concilia and we will continue to work in small houses so that, precisely, the municipalities of our rural areas have the same opportunities for reconciliation and the same opportunities for services as the urban area. But the best possible attention to families is a goal that shares the Social Policy Council with other areas of the Government, so it is so important that the I-Palestinian Plan of Conciliation and Co-responsibility 2018-2021 that drives the area of Vice-Presidentship. The matter of this intervention takes me to stop for a moment in this instrument, which is a planning tool that is thought of as a framework strategy in which to contextualize all actions that can be launched on the 2021 horizon to move forward in the spirit of conciliation and co-responsibility in Galicia. So it's a living document that works in five strategic areas. First of all, something very important, to generate awareness and awareness of the importance of the family and the importance of reconciliation. Secondly, co-education for a corresponding society. Third, articulate a new culture of the times. Fourthly, to strengthen the commitment of organizations with a corresponding reconciliation. And fifthly, to strengthen support resources, which allows us, therefore, to continue to work in all these areas. We, of course, will continue to do so, we will take advantage of Galicia's economic growth to continue investing more than ever in social policies. And one of the most important social policies is to help families, to help all families and to help families that have the most needs. We are going to do this from all the councils of this government, because this is a matter of country, a subject that we have to be able to work among all of us, work among us all and work in coordination with other governments; I am referring to the central government, which has great powers in terms of conciliation, in terms of time management. Therefore, through the Forum of Spanish Regions with Demographic Challenges we will continue to work together to achieve new targets, new targets where the Spanish Strategy of Demographic Challenges is going to be very important — I say — for this action of the set of administrations. And also working with Europe. Working with Europe because some of the data currently collected in Galicia will be data from Europe within ten years, or data from Europe within twenty years. Therefore, developing experimental policies in Galicia will enable us to anticipate this phenomenon of demographic transformation, this phenomenon of family transformation, which has to be our current policies, but above all our future policies. Therefore, progress made, new announcements made for this year, but, above all, ambition of this government and ambition of this council of not conforming to us and of continuing to work to further improve conciliation policies, to continue to advance in family policies and to continue to lead the Spanish autonomous communities with better social policies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u59	Thank you very much, Counselor. Before starting with the round of parliamentary groups, greet the fourth-graders of the ICC Castro Baxoi, of Mine, who have just entered the Chamber. And you have the floor now, by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u60	Good morning. Good day to the children you're with us now from the rostrum. Counsellor, Mr. Rey, since there is the busy People's Party to settle accounts, doing what you know best to do, which is not able to fit into the world that the world goes beyond the People's Party, because they can't fit — if, today, there are important absences in the People's Party, you seem to be very busy — that there is a world beyond the People's Party, and they can't fit the decisive and responsible role of nationalist organizations and point out the need to overcome the 1978 regime corset; it was corrupt to the 1978 regime, this relevant role in dislodging the People's Government Party, an exercise of responsibility that we hope we can take into account. With that vengeful urge it seems that the People's Party will amend itself and make amendments to State budgets, to its own budgets. So, I wanted to tell you, because you're going to make amendments, that you might remind us that we are now owed to Galicia no longer EUR 150 million in dependence, but we're already at EUR 186,200,000 that the state owes Galicia to us in dependence. Data from the second statement of the observatory of Law 39/2006, promoting personal autonomy and care for dependent persons, published by the State Association of Directors and Servants of Social Services, this year 2018, which has already raised to 186.20.000 euros; then, since you part of your intervention has dedicated yourself to laying down duties on the new government of the State — which you have not done so far — you are no longer entitled to claim to the State those millions that you have not wanted to do and that this Parliament, the People's Party, did not want to vote in favour of claiming that money; no, I did not want to vote in favour. He voted in favour of claiming that he had paid the 50% that he had agreed, but he did not want to vote in favour of claiming that EUR 150 million, with which they are no longer legitimized to do so, but I hope that the Socialist Party will act according to what you voted for in this Parliament, that it was to claim that EUR 150 million and that it will comply with what the Government of the State has done if it pays that historic debt to Galicia and if it pays at this time that EUR 186.2 million already owed us in relation to dependency. [[Applause]] Look, you made this appearance today that I don't know if you qualify it as a recompilation appearance or reminder appearance, because you didn't make any contribution, no novelty, no solution that goes to the bottom of any problem, you just made a recompiling of the issues of a catalogue, the catalogue of issues your Counsellor has, and also what you did was giving some new headlines, you said again that Galicia is one of the best places to care for families. You said today -- you have a collection of headlines, you came here to Parliament, the first time, to say that Galicia is the best place to live, that Galicia is the best place to have children, that Galicia is the best place to be older -- that Galicia is one of the best places to care for families. I mean, he came under his arm with the presentation of the catalogue -- in this case -- spring -- to say that Galicia is the best place to care for families, so I suppose he missed an opportunity to tell us something new about what really goes to the bottom of the serious problems families have in Galicia, Mr. Counselor. And I think it's amazing that you come here more than once to talk under the heading of family care and conciliation policies and really don't talk about what the real underlying problem is, and that you come here talking about it without talking about the economic situation of families, not about Galicia's economic situation, not about the poverty situation. Because families are in poverty, with which children and children in our country are in poverty and intergenerational transmission of poverty; high percentages of children who are born poor and will follow poor for the rest of their lives, because the data show that 80% of children born in poor homes will remain and will be poor adults, 80% of them children and children. With which, actions to change that situation, Counselor, I, of course, saw that you had spoken of none. Because I saw it was a relationship of some patch, but absolutely of a patch catalog, absolutely no question that goes to the bottom of the matter. The People's Party has since returned to the Government of Unity for nine years been managing the budgets of the Galician Union, and what is evidence is that they have taken advantage of the crisis to implement their ideological project to dismantle or not develop a public network of truly social services, to replace with assistanceism, to decapitalize the public network or not to capitalize or to put in place a genuine public network of public services, not to put in place a public network of public services and not to put in place genuine priorities. Under the excuse that there were no resources — it was never a resource problem, because if it were a resource problem they would have agreed or supported initiatives brought here by this Parliament to act where there were more resources, to be able to act on the enrichment of banks, large businesses, large commercial areas — but they never wanted to have more resources to really put in place policies that acted on the problems; they never wanted to make those issues and whether to act so that certain companies would be enriched by their strategy, not to create a public network and to capitalize private companies. It was a purely ideological decision. You, in this catalogue just exposed to us, have made no attempt to approach or present solutions, to go to the bottom of the problem. Wage situation of most of the population in Greece, he didn't want to talk about the women's pay gap, 28%, which means that it's a wage gap and pensions; he didn't want to go to the bottom of problems, really, which is the conciliation situation; he didn't want to go to the situation, really, which is the situation of co-responsibility; and he didn't want to go to the bottom of the question that since you went back to the Government of the United Nations, what you did was not create that public network as to the children's schools and what they did was capitalize that private network instead of building a public network. You also didn't want to talk about the first Greek co-responsibility law of the Board, when the first Welsh law and the Ith Joint Co-responsibility Plan approved them by the Galician Nationalist Block, and you, instead of taking advantage of that done work, what they did was put it in a drawer and take it out. A work done and presented by the BNG that had measures to walk towards co-responsibility, where it went to squares in children's schools, to squares in day centers, to specific training directed towards youth, to the development of community services and care support networks, to issues that were going in another direction. What you didn't want to talk about is that there's a more or less important legislation, but then that legislation doesn't work out. We could start with your own Councillor, Counselor. You're talking about conciliation, you don't want to talk about going to the issue of co-responsibility and why in the Consortium, for example, women... yes, Counsellor, I want you to answer why it turns out that you come to us about conciliation and why you don't want to explain why in your own Consortium women have to go to trial for what the law gives them of nursing rights, adaptation of jobs adapted for risk during pregnancy, you have to go to the court to be recognized, because in the Consortium you systematically deny them. Or why — I have to quote again here — the case of Nelida Pisco, who has to go to trial because what the law recognises to him soon is denied by companies, and because the Galician Union — since you are a prominent member, as Counsellor — does absolutely nothing for women to feel protected, so that reconciliation and co-responsibility are a reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u62	Why hasn't anything been done to advance these issues since the position you occupy and since the Galician Union? We can talk about monomantal families. BNG has introduced a law in this Parliament to move forward in that direction. We hope that when the People's Party talks, we will vote in favour. [[Applause]] What do the studies say? That the best way to move forward on these issues is to have women's and quality jobs, that female employment is the most effective way and remedy against family poverty and demographic imbalance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u63	Finish. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u64	...that the interruption of a mother's work for five years, which then returns to working life, is a way of fighting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u66	...—Finished, President—against child poverty.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u67	He's got another shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u68	It's over, Mr. President. I just want to tell you, Mr. Counsellor, that it would be good for us, in addition to coming here, to make an intervention in a bell tower, to really explain to us what silent measures it will do, in addition to making a recompilation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u69	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u70	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. "If you weren't a woman, I'd give you two..." This was Manuel Fraga when he was president of Galicia's board in the crisis, in the terrible crisis, of the Prestige, addressing a woman who was manifesting and protesting freely. So lessons of feminism to the Socialist Party and not the first. And I can continue to read many quotes, such as the former mayor of Valladolid: "Every time I see the face and those dead people think the same, but I'm not going to tell it here." He was referring to a minister, Mrs. Leire Pajin. [[Applause]] Welcome, Counselor. We appreciate this attendance because we consider it to be a very important issue, but we would also thank you, too, that when opposition groups jointly request an appearance — as was the case with the Montealegre Children's Center and its privatization — you had come here too, and not only when you consider it. If you go out into the street, if either of us comes out and we ask the women of this country about the situation of conciliation, the first thing they would say to you is, "Reconciliation what?" It reconciles that, because balancing personal, family and work life in this country is a difficult game of juggling that becomes an impossible mission for monomantal families, and to change this situation requires the responsibility of all and all, of society as a whole, but mainly of companies and of course of public administrations. You mentioned here a report from the University of Vigo, you forgot to say that — even though you are going to be from now on, we are convinced of this, very hard with the Government of Spain, demanding everything that has not demanded so far — leaves a government of Spain at the queue of OECD countries in public investment to families, specifically the twenty-six and thirty-fiveth of the OECD countries. [[Applause]] He has forgotten, too, that this strategy for the demographic challenge is paralysed, because until now we have had a government commissioner for the demographic challenge that — by the way, the province of Ourense — has not existed practically and that has been late for months in that elaboration of the strategy, which I am convinced — and we are from the Socialist Group — that you are not going to begin to claim it from now on, because there are certainly enough documents — that we will certainly ask for in this House — also justifying and asking for that strategy that has, I repeat, almost a year's delay. The truth is that the weight of the care of children and daughters in this country affects and continues on women's shoulders. 98% of maternity or paternity leave we take them, women, go down the paternity leave with respect to INE; we're in 2018 at the 2008 level. I understand that in the second exhibition it's when you're going to tell about the extension of the paternity permit and the employees and the public employees, maybe I'm moving forward. And I want to ask you already, in advance of this issue, why it's not going to be done on the basis of the 100 percent quote and why you won't get 100 percent of the supplement, as it is happening in other autonomous communities. And I'll give you an example of an autonomous community that is co-governed with the Socialist Party, Euskadi, which has just regulated a three-month surplus that is paid with an amount equivalent to 100 percent of the basis of quote. I'm an example in birth policies, too, and in fighting the demographic challenge. Theirs are, in addition to timely media, opportunistic measures, because, of course, it was by chance that this conciliation plan that had been announced for years by the President of the Galician Union had come out in April this year, after you caught the feminist strike of 8M with absolutely changed feet. And after seeing thousands of people in the streets, of course, I suppose they would think, well, we have to somehow make up our policies of feminism. [[Applause]] What do we do? So we're going to make that plan that we had abandoned, which, by the way, was also abandoned, the Government's plan — Miss Voicer of the Galician Nationalist Block Party — of Mr. Tourin in coalition with the Galician Nationalist Block, which you hid in a drawer. We are talking about concrete measures, and, of course, we are surprised — and we think that I came to talk about this — a publicity campaign of more than 250,000 euros to the media in this country, through an open procedure. We know you need momentum for the Mayor of Ferrol, but at least tell him a little bit, because these are the resources of all the Greeks and the Greeks. We hope, too, that in this campaign we do not repeat the stereotypes of gender that we have seen in other campaigns of the Galician Union, where in the care of children and girls only women, women feeding, women playing games with children, we hope that they have corrected this subject. Time-consuming measures that are completely insufficient, and if we make a cross-cutting balance of their policies, what we see is that you're going to overcome the problem, they're going over the problem but not landing on the causes or fighting them. I say that something will have to do with, something you've forgotten about here, the precariousness of work and low wages so that there's a demographic problem like what's in this country, because you didn't mention it. The second country, according to that report, is at risk of being unemployed throughout the OECD, the second country in quality around work. I say, Counselor, that something will have to see the socio-work environment of the workers and workers in this country. By the way, you also talked about children at risk of poverty. Of course, it's very nice to talk, but it would be a lot better not to wait to be three and a half years behind in developing social integration income. That does not seem — as you have said — to be a suitable social environment to fight poverty, it does not seem, nor does it seem, that they have hidden the Plan of Equality in the work of Mr. Tourin's Government and that we have a 30 percent salary gap, seven points above the state average, and that increases with respect to last year. And you still wonder why families in this country want to have between two and three children and have little more than one. Of course, they have already resigned from the reconciliation of work and family life, many people when asked if they were going to have children or not, what they ask them to answer with a question and say, "Whom do I leave the children when I have to work?" Because that's a problem faced by families. And that's because the main resources for conciliation — which are public childhood schools — are still, despite their publication and propaganda, completely insufficient. It's decreasing to an alarming number the number of children under three years of age in this country, eleven thousand in the last five years, and yet we have a waiting list of three thousand eight hundred children to whom you, we're convinced, will support them in an educational center, taking them — as they have done in recent years — to private centers. But if we go to specific areas, for example, we see that the area of the Ten Tabeiros, despite the fact that they are going to have a child school on the Road, is going to be located after the construction of this school in half — it is going to be the ratio that it has taken from the European Union itself. A net that you've done with her since they got to the government has been bombarded ideologically, that's what they did from the very first moment. They started by changing his name for political revenge and continued to follow that price rise of more than 19% at those centers, multiplying by two even the price of school lunchers. While we were being bombarded with advertisements from public squares, what did they do? Something innovative — as you said before — to introduce concerts with private children's schools in 2015, something that was not known until now in this country. I asked him the other day and I asked him, "Why are there more than 70% of the budget devoted to children's schools in industrial polygons not running in the last two years, and what are they going to do to change this situation?" At the same time, there are more than half of the 2017 budget in the small houses, 54%, not running. What are you going to do? Older and disabled. Not only do we have to talk about dependents, children and children, but we also have to talk about the attention of older people and people with disabilities. If we had a public network that could relieve women in this country's attention to older people and people with disabilities, the situation would improve, but the fact is that we have the public funding square coverage index for older than sixty-five years lower than all autonomous communities, and they are data from the Imserso, a serious deficit, even in the coverage rate, where we also count private people, who are 25% below the state average, as well as people with disabilities. What about the attention center for the disabled people in Ourense who had to be set up in the first phase in 2018 and of what hasn't even set up a single stone yet? And I'm done. While their policies do not change the causes that cause them to reconcile it is to make juggling games for most families in this country — and I am referring to economic and labor measures that promote precarious employment and instability, which are also completely disconnected from social policies — and continue to weaken the public network of attention to dependents, children and children, persons with disabilities and older people, their conciliation policies will be policies of conciliation, Mr Counsellor. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u72	Thank you, President. Conciliating, conciliating is an inconjugable verb for many people, especially for women. To talk about conciliation requires approach to this challenge, which is one of the challenges of contemporary societies, no doubt, from various planes, one of them to demography. I thank you for coming out of this debate because it's a fundamental issue, and here's a unique relationship between the possibilities that a society offers for conciliation and the number of children and children per woman in these societies, it's not, of course, a cause-effect relationship, there are other factors, but it's fundamental. So, if we compare the rate, the number of children per woman in the Nordic countries, for example -- that you to the box they deliver when women give birth in this country call it fine box -- because the rate of children per woman in those countries is closer to the replacement of societies than the number of children per woman in our country, 1.13. It's not, of course, the best country to have children; above all, when women ask us, mostly, we talk about having two children, because the reality is that we're not in a conciliatory environment. I say that the relationship between the number of children and daughters per woman is not unique because we also have to take into account something that is not said here, that is immigration, and that our country still has immigration rates that, above all, affect the age cuts that are reproductive age; therefore, the number of children per woman is also reduced. And I'm starting with this because employment and equality are two axes that we have to quote when we talk about demography, but also about conciliation, because we're still women who take on the most household jobs and care jobs. And employment and equality, by the way, are two axes in the Demographic Observatory that were considered not likely to have specific working groups. We considered it a mistake and we considered it to be two fundamental axes to ensure reconciliation. But we also need to talk about even more fundamental issues, because, is it possible to reconcile in the current model of society? What reconciliation could there be with poor work? You just mentioned the socio-work situation in Galicia, and it's a fundamental question to reconcile. How do nurses who work for days in Sergas reconcile? How do they reconcile teleoperators with a day-to-day departure and low wages, and more if they're a single-parent family? We just talked about work, and it's fundamental. It's essential because reconciling is changing the world, reconciling is reformulating the use of time, and especially working time. So there should be a reflection on whether conciliation is possible in the current socio-economic model, and more with the timetable system we have. In this sense, conciliation policies cannot be patched up, they cannot be geared to time-bound issues, but there must be a global change in policies. And the perception of the lack of reconciliation possibilities in our country is very extensive. Let's go, for example, to the 2016 household structural survey in the Conciliation Plan. There is evidence that almost 40% of women — a little less men — find it difficult or very difficult to reconcile, that almost 36% of women — some less men — have had difficulty concentrating on work for family responsibilities. And there's data that elevates up to one third of the people who have -- we have -- an excessive weariness after the workday, or about 20 percent of people who think they can never spend the time they want on the family because of work. So it is essential to reformulate work in our societies, and this requires transversal policies — as I say — because reconciling is not just being able to put a child in a nursery eight hours a day, it is having time to look after her, and that requires changing the formulation of work in our societies. By the way, that conciliating is also not — with Bono Care or without Bono Care — to derive from the most disadvantaged classes these precarious care, in addition to that it is almost always a work that women do, that the household workers do without being integrated into the work regime with the same rights still today; and they generate, in addition, global care networks with precarious workers throughout the world. We are therefore talking about the need for a cross-cutting change in conciliation: we must act in the interests of employment, public services, education, awareness-raising, or in areas which may seem to us to be as extreme for conciliation as transport. Because, for example, a public transport network that really vertebrates the country would improve the chances of reconciliation. This is obvious in the Atlantic axis, you can work in Santiago or in the Coruña, and vice versa, and live in one of these cities with a half hour of displacement; if you live inside the country, the thing changes. Transport is also a public policy that has a positive or not impact on conciliation, as is the case in Greek. And for us, the German Conciliation Plan is pure propaganda and there are no cross-cutting measures in this government. First of all, they speak of a living, open document, but it was made without consensus with civil society. And in 2018 that document does not have a specific budget, we simply understand — as we see it — that a compilation of the programme budget has been made that has to do with conciliation: they come together and it is called the Conciliation Plan. How much will the budget increase in family and childhood functions in the coming years? Or will they continue to do so, taking from the various programmes that have to do with conciliation and presenting them as the Government's measures in conciliation? But we must at least increase public investment in social services and in family and child roles to the European Union. In this study quoted by the University of Vigo it is clear that in the Spanish state we continue below the European Union average for family and child spending: Spain, 1.46%; Finland, for example, 3.21%. I quote continually Finland because the fine box is not only giving a few quintessentials on the day of giving birth, the fine box is having longer paternity and maternity permits and having an investment in family and child fit for social reality. Finally, it is also necessary to stop cutting the government budget in Greece with regard to GDP. Conciliation demands, too, that the Union itself set an example for companies. The Government, which boasts that it is the most important thing for conciliation, is what keeps Article 19 of the Fifth Collective Agreement of the Union, which is precisely the one concerning rest. And what reconciliation favours Junta's employees and, above all, public employees? Because, above all, it happens in the employees of the Social Policy Centres, those who work shifts and see their chances of conciliation very low, which have a few very suitable posters, which have to work for weeks and holidays, which suffer a very over-exercise related to this matter. One over effort, 41% of accidents with low work in Junta have been due to this cause, and most of the accidents are in the Social Policy Council. And what reconciliation is there when we speak — both in this legislation and in the previous legislation — or when we go to social policy centres, to the residences of the old age? What we are asked to do, rather than recover the lost salary from the crisis — which, of course, is that, please, let us always put on the table which recovers Article 19 of the Fifth Convention; it is impossible to reconcile this. It has also been mentioned here that it is impossible to switch jobs to the Consortium staff. Can't brag about reconciling when Joining is not an example. It is also conciliation in the iodine of wage labor — I don't have much time left, but it's a fundamental issue — because we have to end up with the wage divide, equate the material conditions of the existence of men and women, because if women don't always end up taking care and losing their jobs, and having, of course, worse living conditions. Labour reform must be repealed, because labour insecurity is an element that is shown to be harmful to conciliation, but also because decent wages are the only thing that guarantees reconciliation, too; work insecurity, having to link precarious jobs, does not allow reconciliation. We need to increase labour inspection, really, and encourage measures for time rationalization, for time flexibility, for teleworking, for the reduction of days. We need to address the debate on the reduction of days and, of course, also the more far-reaching and equal and untransferable parental and maternity permits. It is also essential for the Union to set an example in another aspect, that it is not to hire services with companies that do not permit reconciliation or have wage discrimination, as happens, for example, with the cleaning company of the buildings of the Union. Finally, support measures. For example, another axis, direct support measures like the Welcome Card. By the way, many families are complained of late income, and that uncertainty, which can also be improved as to where it can be used and also in online commerce. Another axis in the socialization of care. To reconcile is, of course, to end with the breakdown of care distribution and, on the one hand, to realize that this aspect of care is fundamental to human beings. That is why we are committed to accounting for how much GDP they represent — which is around half the GDP of a country — but also that equal awareness that you mentioned. But then, however, they present birth promotion campaigns — which last year some 700,000 euros for birth promotion campaigns in the media — and what they do is a video where only women take care of and without even giving birth, because it's not going to be seen a breast. No, they're women taking care to announce the Welcome Card, so they completely violate the measures of strategic area 1 of that conciliation plan they present. We have to set an example. I don't have time. Then we will continue to talk about children's schools, because, in fact, if they boast of that rate, but that rate is not of public squares, it's of euphemism that they use to say: squares supported with public funds. They are extending the model of concert to childhood education for 0-3 years. We'll go on then, I don't have time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u73	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Counsellor, you speak of the fact that the Galician Union is increasing, until it reaches EUR 133 million, the budget for family policies, and the opposition is telling you that it has never been a problem of economic resources. You're talking about the duplication of public squares in early childhood schools, increasing the ratio to 41%, and the opposition says they took advantage of the crisis to dismantle social services. You're talking about the Welcome Card now receiving more than thirty thousand dollars and allocating 36 million euros, and the opposition is talking about a patch catalogue. And you're talking about Galicia being one of the autonomous communities that best supports families -- like a report from a research team at the University of Vigo -- and here's what you're told about is the Mayor of Ferrol. Therefore, we believe that in the light of the facts of the Galician Summit on Social Policy, what we are facing is an opposition that is trying to discredit not only the Galician Union, but the social policies it has at this time Galician for many citizens and many families who need it. The Galician Union allocates more than 133 million euros. It seems that it is not a matter of resources now, when in the debate on budgets the opposition says that they are not sufficient. Well, it's 10 million euros more than last year and 76 million euros more than in 2009. Because, of course, as the opposition said, it was not a resource problem because they allocated 76 million euros less to family policies. Investment in family policies places Galicia as the second most supportive community in that report by the research group GEN, University of Vigo, "Family policies in Spain: a comparative perspective", with more public squares in children's schools, with new conciliation services and with more economic assistance and tax deductions. What is the ratio of public squares in children's schools that the European Union recommends? 33%, that is, thirty-three public squares of children's schools for every 100 children. Well, in 2009 the ratio of public squares in Galicia was 19%, in 2018 the ratio of public squares in Galicia is 41%, eight points above the European recommendation. We're talking about that in almost nine years the Galician Union has increased by twenty-two points the ratio of public squares in children's schools, but to the opposition this is to dismantle social services. Galicia will count on the next 2018-2019 course with 10,264 public squares in small schools of the network The Blue Chicken. In 2009 Galicia had 5,035 public squares in children's schools, and in 2018 Galicia had 10,264 public squares in children's schools. Double what I was counting on in 2009! [[Applause]] Double! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Therefore, their criticisms every day are less credible: the squares have doubled. The objective of this Galician government legislation was to create a thousand new squares in children's schools. We've only been legislating for two years and we've already created more than six hundred squares in children's schools. And the Greek network of children's schools has 24,081 public squares or funded by public funds. And to ensure that children and girls are in the best facilities, the Galician Union allocates nearly EUR 20 million to maintain the network of children's schools The Blue Chicken and more than a million euros to maintain the network of municipal schools and social initiative. But of course, the opposition believes that infant schools reproduce by spores. Because you in the 2018 budget wanted to build twenty-four infant schools at a balance price. But, of course, we've found that infant schools don't reproduce by spores, that what we have to do is put on the budget table to build and set up children's schools for children and children. But of course, when Junta sets in motion public squares of children's schools, it soon leaves the opposition by recognizing that yes, there are more public squares, but what they do is privatize social services. Well, I'm going to give a given, 97% of the public squares in children's schools in the Galician Union are managed directly by the Government of Galicia; the squares in children's schools are municipal competence of the Town Hall of Santiago, 100% privatized; 100% of the municipally competent infant schools in the Town Hall of the Town Hall of Galicia, privatized; 100% of the municipally competent children's schools in the Vigo Town Hall are privatized. So who can believe at this point, when the squares are doubled in public childhood schools in Galicia by the Government of Galicia, if you, where you rule, privatize 100 percent of the municipal infantry schools? So check your argument, because the facts show that you're lying. Junta guarantees that no child is out of place in a child's school. What do you don't like about the Bono Council? All families who have applied for the bonus will receive economic assistance to be able to choose the center to take their children to, with an budget of EUR 4.3 million. But of course, this looks like a patch catalogue to you. It is 3,600 families who are currently receiving the Bono Council. Children's homes, such an important conciliation resource in rural areas, but it seems that rural people have no right to have a child's school here to care for children in those municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants. There are forty-six children's houses in rural Galician, another fifteen in processing. Before the end of the legislation will be in operation a conciliation network on rural borders with sixty-one children's houses, a free service for families with an investment by the Galician Board of EUR 6,000,000. For you too, a catalogue of things that aren't important. When we talk about family support policies and we talk about squares in children's schools, we also have to talk about that in 2006 the Galician Union and business associations promoted the construction of children's schools in industrial centers. You now say this is a failure of the Galician Union. I remind you that there is a Greek plan for conciliation and co-responsibility where it is necessary to involve all related agents in the field of employment, and business organisations are essential actors. And what Xunta de Galicia is doing is promoting and financing the construction of these schools in industrial areas: three schools funded in 2016-2017, 800,000 euros to be able to finance four other schools. And the Welcome Card, remember that when the opposition groups started, they were mocking the Welcome Card, simulating that it was like the State Government's Baby Cheque and that the councillor was going to split cheques across Galicia? And they realized that the Welcome Card is a support measure for fundamental families, which currently receive 30,000 families. An economic aid of EUR 1,200 to support families in the expenditure resulting from their children's upbringing. Not only by birth, but also by adoption and custody for adoption purposes. In addition, when this initiative was born in 2006, it was only for the first year of life of the child and the child, but it extended to the three years of life of the child and the child, so 36 million euros are allocated. And the Bono Care program is a direct support program for families that was approved in 2016, it's a complementary resource so that at that point you can care for a person under twelve years in the family home when your parents can't. More than a hundred families receive that help. So, Counsellor, when we speak of Galicia as one of the communities most devoted to family policies, specifically EUR 133 million, the opposition's answer is that it is not a matter of resources. When you talk about duplicated squares in children's schools, the opposition says you took advantage of the crisis to dismantle social services. When we talk about the Welcome Card that already receives 30,000 families, the opposition speaks of this as a patch of the Galician Union. And when there's a report from a research group at the University of Vigo that says Galicia is one of the autonomous Spanish communities that best supports families, what they're talking about here is the municipal elections and the candidatures. You continue to work to support families and increase reconciliation resources. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. We greet students and 5th graders from the Chano Piñeiro de Manufe centre in Gondomar, as well as the teachers who are with us today. Welcome to Parliament. You now have the floor for the reply of the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Prado Cores, tell me there is life beyond the People's Party. It is true that he could have told me something more about family, something more about conciliation, and he's starting his intervention by telling me -- telling this government -- that there's more life beyond the People's Party. Well, look, I want to answer you, Mrs. Prado Cores, is that, of course, there is more life beyond the BNG, fortunately for all the Greeks and fortunately for all the Spaniards. Because look, really, the times we try to be constructive in our debates, constructive thinking about Galicia, thinking about the country, always comes out the politics of parties, instead of subtracting a moment from party politics to talk about something much more important that is the future of families and that is the future of conciliation. Look, we are not obsessed, for nothing, as you are with the People's Party, because it seems to you that the People's Party has been ruling in Spain forever, and indeed that the People's Party has ruled for fourteen years, unfortunately, in Spain of forty. So I'm telling you not to be as obsessed as you are with the People's Party, but rather very proud of what we're doing, what we're doing also in family policy and what we're doing in conciliation policy. [[Applause]] Look, indeed, at his nationalist conception tells us of outstanding debts with Galicia. Look, you really didn't say anything that didn't say this government on previous occasions about dependency. In my speech I would hear neither more words nor greater emphasis on defending State funding to the dependence now; no more words — and you can take my last intervention — and no greater emphasis, really. But you know it's the most important thing? That we will continue to demand the Government of Spain exactly the same as at present to improve the financing of Galicia, the same! That's first of all, but that wasn't the most important thing. The most important thing I'm going to say next -- that's what we're going to do -- the most important thing, do what the Government of Spain does, is that we're going to fulfill our commitment to our elders and our commitment to dependence. That's the most important thing, because there's self-government here and self-government has budgets, and it's decided here that budgets are prioritized for social policy and, therefore, we're going to meet in the middle of legislation the goal of the entire legislation; therefore, to meet 60,000 dependent people this year. [[Applause]] That's why we're already working and we're going to get -- I say -- to meet that goal, to rule who's in Madrid; because we're not looking at Madrid waiting to see what's going on in Madrid. We're defending the Greeks and working for the Greeks and for the Greeks. Mrs. Prado, I agree with you in one thing, really. It is that there are some data of poverty that are worrying, that they are very worrying, and that just as I will not agree with you on the issues of support, I agree that, indeed, there is a lot of way to go, that poverty is a social phenomenon that we have to be able to banish, and that poverty has another characteristic, which, as you expressed very carefully, leads to the chronification of poverty itself, and concerns us, precisely, that chronification of poverty. We're doing what we're doing to avoid it is investing, too, greater public resources in inclusion. Look, you might like more or less the acronyms that support this government, but this government is what's investing more than ever in the matter of inclusion in Galicia in recent years. Right now EUR 115 million. We are investing more inclusion resources than ever, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, coordinating our policies more also, because we are coordinating our policies with the municipalities, we are coordinating our policies with the deputies and we are coordinating our policies with the social entities that work in the territory with the essential coordination of EAPN, which, as you can imagine, works together with us to improve not this government, but to improve the social conditions of people who are worse off. Of course, much remains to be done, much remains to be done together to reduce the poverty gap, to avoid that chronicle of poverty, but it will coincide with me that investing more resources is easier to do, and it will agree with me that coordinating everyone's resources will also be easier to do so. Look, we're not for complacency, and much less on a subject like this, but really the last data, at least, tells us we're going in the right direction. The percentage of homes in Galicia with severe material shortages dropped to 4.9 % in the last known statistic, which was 2016, was 6.01 % in 2015; therefore, we're in homes with severe material deficiencies in prescribed levels, and that's what we think it's a breakthrough. And we believe that, in addition, now recovery — which will be a different recovery, because society is changing and demands different things and greater social policy — will also allow us to take advantage of this recovery for more social resources. And in Galicia it's going to be exactly what we're going to do in what's left of legislation, to take advantage of the greatest economic growth to allocate more social resources to families so those indicators continue to go down. I'm not going to talk to you about the comparison, eh!, I don't think we're too interested in the comparison with Europe or the comparison with Spain. What we're really interested in is that Galicia has better data than the set of Spain and that that data, in addition, is progressing. That there's a lot to go on? Of course. What are many social policies left to implement? Of course. That we'll be able to do it in this legislation? I can tell you yes. Mrs. Blanco, feminist lessons I don't think I gave you any. I suppose it referred to previous interventions. I say the same thing I told Mrs. Prado, I wouldn't listen. I saw her when I was talking, two small mentions I made of the Government of Spain and saw her gestures. Sometimes we can't help it, either. Indeed, as I told Mrs. Prado, I don't say one word more or one word less: Galicia has its own autonomy, and Galicia has always defended Galicia's interests regardless of government, the political colour of government, which was in Madrid. And we're going to keep doing it, we're going to keep doing it, and we're going to demand exactly the same, to demand exactly the same about demography, and to demand exactly the same about dependence and attention on our elders. Look, you told me exactly about Euskadi. I don't know if the Socialist Party's model is Euskadi, who, by the way, govern nationalists, not the Socialist Party. The study of what we are talking about excludes precisely Euskadi, because one cannot assimilate in order to establish the investment effort in family and conciliation, one cannot equate with the rest of autonomous communities. That's a fact I think it's good for you to know. I hope that among all of us we will be able to have an economic distribution that can favour all autonomous communities and not only Euskadi, and so, of course, we can also allocate more resources to the family and more resources to conciliation. Look, you tell me about stereotypes, too. Tell me about a campaign, about a sensitization campaign made by the German Government. Look, the campaigns may agree more or less, but when we're talking about family, I guess nobody bothers to see a mother with a baby. So I think we really don't have to look for any type of sexist connotation or any type of stereotype. In the campaigns that promote the Social Policy Council there are men and women, who, depending on their freedom, form families of all kinds, but — I say — I think showing a mother with her baby doesn't bother anyone, of course I don't mind as a social policy adviser. [[Applause]] I suppose you won't be disturbed either by the public image of Galician children's schools, which is precisely illustrated by an old member of your group whom we respect very much, which is Carlos Casares. Then talk again about the failure to fully execute the game of children's schools. Well, I've already said before that this is a path that can't be achieved in a year. We have embarked on this order of aid, and you will see how at some point we will complete all that funding and how, among all of us — before we talked about the coordination of administrations — we will be able to raise awareness not only of all administrations, but also of the business sector, that this is a subject that needs to be brought together towards the future: the matter of conciliation, the subject of timetables, the subject of flexibility. We must also raise awareness of the city councils, because many of the activities being developed in the field of children's schools in industrial polygons face difficulties of an urban nature. So, I say, more and more urban instruments have to have this social change that we are referring to right now from the budgetary point of view, but also from the urban point of view, why? Well, look, by putting some examples, the staffing soils. There are no appropriations alone for social and conciliation infrastructures. This is a new reality. If they exist for soils of health or soils of an educational nature, but let's do how we all have to move forward, together, to improve our policies around a new challenge, not a problem, a new one, a challenge that is how families are changing, how society is changing, and how we, who are administrations and that we are public representatives, have to be able to respond to that new challenge if we want to continue to respond to what the Greeks are asking us and to what the Greeks are asking us. Mrs. Vázquez Verao, I agree that it is still difficult to conjugate the verb conciliar, but really what we are considering here are new policies and new investments so that every time that verb conjugate is more present in the activity of the Council of Social Policy, but also in the activity of the whole Government of Galicia, and I have some responsibility for that. Tell me about the Finnish box. Well, look, really, I don't quite understand your obsession with the Finnish box either. The Finnish box is not a goal, the Finnish box is a start, a start to European policies to support the family and European policies to support conciliation. It's a step on that road that we're giving the Government of Galicia. Tell me the squares aren't public. It is true that we have twice as many public squares in children's schools, public squares, clearly public squares, with no adjectives, without ever seeking public funds, no public squares! We have twice as much as the last Government of Galicia, before the Government of the People's Party, which was the Government of the BNG and the Government of the Socialist Party, twice as many public squares. So, I think if we want to talk in purity, we can't talk about cuts in public squares, in public schools, but the government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo did it was to double public squares in children's schools in Galicia. And look, then you tell me about policies to reconcile employees of the Social Policy Council. Look, there's a way we have to go to work and what we're working on, we're improving the conditions of our workers with new posters, and we're improving the working conditions of the Consortium workers. Look, this is a way, but you — who are with the bat many times from the cuts, and I understand it, because politically it's very interesting -- could also answer a question. Do you think the working conditions of the consortium staff that created the BNG are now better economic conditions, working conditions, or were they better when BNG ruled the Social Policy Council? So I'd like you to answer that question, too, if you want to go back to 2008 in Galicia. Look, and we've come here, of course, to answer everything he tells us, or everything the groups tell us, because we want to make a more inclusive policy. If we think about the future, we have to be able — when we talk about the family and when we talk about conciliation — to listen to the positions of all groups, but this advisor also announces in this appearance the new things, he announces that we exceed 41% of the ratio of care in children's schools in Galicia, that we have already increased the commitment to the whole legislation and that we are following in that direction; and I have already told him that new infant schools would be in progress in this next course, that is to say, this year. I've announced two call orders to improve the facilities of children's schools for over a million euros. I gave them this year's compliment on the extension of the Welcome Card, that is, of the aid for the new children and for the new children born in Galicia until they were three years old, when I told them to go on their way to the European countries that better family policies are doing just that. We started a card with a year of vigil, and we've reached, fortunately, with the investment of all the Greeks, direct aid to families up to the age of three. We will have to go that way, because it is the path to success of family policies and the success of conciliation policies in Europe. I told you about the new strategy of support for numerous families. I told you about the creation this year, too, of the Register of Accreditation of Single Parental and Single Parental Families; I told you that at this time of year we are increasing funding for welcoming families; I told you that we are going to comply, regardless of what the Government of the State does, the ratio of dependence to 90%; and I also mentioned how to improve, together with the Government of Spain and the European Union, family policies, reconciliation policies. That's the challenge, and that's what we've called from the Government the whole parliamentary group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u77	Thank you, Counselor. They are with us now, and we greet them, the sixth primary students of the center of San Paio de Down, in Reboreda, Round it up, and also the teachers who accompany them. Welcome to Parliament. I repeat with a special round of clarifications from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u78	Thank you, President. Yes, indeed, Mr Varela, in this Parliament the BNG speaks of politics. We are a parliamentary group and we have ideology, and we defend it, because we are talking about ideological projects and, of course, we have not hidden our ideological project, as you intend to do by trying to come here with a theory of politics when you then apply the ideological project of the far right, trying, theoretically, to come from apolitical and then carry out policies of the far right. Yes, that's reality, that's reality! You've always come here looking like you're an apolitical; no, you're and you represent the People's Party here and apply the extreme policies of the People's Party, that's right, that's right! And that's why we're talking about politics, and that's why you, I insist, are not legitimized and you haven't demanded at this time the non-existent People's Party what you had to demand from this country, for Galicia, the historical debts in this case of social policies and dependency policies. And look, poverty is not a social phenomenon, poverty is not a social phenomenon as you just said here, poverty is a consequence of the policies applied, and you have impoverished this country to the extremes of insignificantness — despite being a tremendously rich country — by the policies that you have applied, and have impoverished the majority of society in this country. That's reality and poverty. You told me I didn't talk about family, I told them about families, I told them about the situation in which you have impoverished families, and then you come with patches. They have impoverished families, people, with wages of misery that don't allow them to develop vital projects, they don't allow our young people to develop those vital projects. They've got them convicted of emigration, they've got them convicted of being incapable of emancipation, and they've convicted people of not being able to reach the end of the month, and then they come here with palliative measures, and that's why I call them patches, Mrs. Rodríguez; yes, that's why I call them patches and that's why I say it's not about resources to put in place other policies. It's not about resources but an ideological model, which you've chosen, not to put in place a real model of public services, public social services, but to put in place an aid model of distribution of small rain and capitalizing a private model with public resources. And that's what you guys did. And of course, we're talking about poverty, poor families, and they look like women, yes, monomantal families, where 50% of those monomantal families in front of a woman, 50%, are poor. Indeed, I've already told you before the BNG introduced here a law to meet the demands of monomantal families that I hope the People's Party will vote in favour. Families, you talked about taking care of families, too, with people with disabilities and dependents, and, of course, to meet those demands the first thing to do is that you put measures on the table so those people who are awaiting recognition of them, for example, disability because they haven't been waiting for three years, as is the case of people in Pontevedra province, waiting for three years to be recognized the degree, which means that while they're not recognized they have no rights. And those are real measures. Or for all those people, 18,000, who have recognized disability, but you don't give them resources for those waiting lists. These are real measures, they're real measures that make those families see their burden a little relieved. Conciliation, co-responsibility, support for families... which is not possible unless there is a clear commitment by the board to move from role to reality: concrete actions, starting with their own Council, to the Consortium. Why do women have to go to court to claim the rights that the law gives them and that you deny them, Counselor? Answer me, why? Answer me, it's very easy to ask. Public squares in children's schools. In nine years they doubled, of course, in 2005 they started creating a network, in 2009 they reach government and in nine years they double 10,000 squares, but it turns out that there are 24,000, 14,000 supported with public money, 24,000. You just gave the data, 24,000 squares, funded or public, or funded with public money. If there are 10,000 publics, 24,000, 14,000 supported with public funds, that is, 10,000 publics and 14,000. I mean, you're capitalizing public squares. Yes, that's the reality. Look, three squares, three children's schools in business parks. And you come here to draw breast saying that in nine years three squares were created in children's parks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u79	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u80	...trick command in Havana! Three, come here and say there are three. Childish houses, it seems to us very good to bet on rural, no public, capitalizing at most are five squares in each one, forty-six, an average of 4, 170, 180, with all the problems they're creating, is it to remove chest, Counsellor? I should make him look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u82	...—Finished, President—I'll tell you. Compilation compilation to make no contribution. I don't know if it's your last appearance, Counselor, when you're going, I suppose not, for Madrid, I think the squares are not on the table right now, I suppose Ferrol will be your destination.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u83	Thank you, we'll see, we'll see.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u84	Sad farewell if this is the last one, Counselor, for the truth is, to sum up the performances well he could come here to offer something else of a magnitude. Thank you very much
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u86	Thank you very much, President. We won't see, we've seen, but well... Counselor, I don't mind — how you're going to bother me! — that there's a picture of a woman attending a child, which concerns me and strangely, even, is that you don't mind having men in those pictures, that's what I'm worried about and what I even find strange, because I think that, as I've seen some video around there — you don't want to recognize it — if any man was included in some of those campaigns of the Galician Union following the allegations of the opposition group. And it's okay, we all have the right to be wrong and we all have the right to rectify, just as it happens also with the Welcome Card and with the problems of adoptions, because you in that order they pulled out, which has just surpassed the subject before, what they came to say is that the families had access if the child was born the same year when the adoption took place, and everyone and we all know that that's not so. Even if there were dozens of families left without help, because it's also good to rectify, I hope so. I don't know if they're going to be rectified with the little schools in industrial polygons, and if you say there's ground problems, what I'm asking you is what they plan to do to change that situation, because, of course, we're talking about schools in industrial polygons and 70% are not running, and children's houses -- that didn't mention -- 54%, which I don't think is a minor issue. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, you come here always talk about the municipalities, and I have no problem, because you always deal with the subject. Management of the Government of the People's Party in the Council of Ourense since 2015: abolition of the programme of care to monomantal families, abolition of school reinforcement programs in civic centers, flaps in socio-educational intervention programs, suppression of the program of the time bank, deletion of the Coeduca program. I don't have time for all the suppressions. [[Applause]] Well, then, if we're going to make a comparison, because one always tends to choose by comparison, Vigo Town Hall: the municipality offers a total of sixty twenty squares in children's schools — eight in all — grants an average of 82% of the cost of each square, with an investment of more than EUR 1 million five hundred thousand. Of course, if you give me the choice, I'll keep that model to be able to reconcile, of course. Children's schools, well, let's go back to the usual debate. It is true that there was a 19% ratio when we arrived at the two-party government, that's quite true, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, I won't deny it, but we came from after fifteen years of the Government of the People's Party of Mr. Fraga Iribarne, I don't know if it had anything to do with it. [[Applause]] Children's schools that are projected, of the five projected three are from the Ortega Amancio Foundation, which we have nothing against which to subsidize them, but we must specify that they are not the own resources of the Galician Union; another, that of Mos, takes five years' delay, and another — I repeat — that of the Road, with its construction we will continue under the European Union's ratio. We left 3,000 public squares projected in infant schools, 80% of what you did. And I don't know, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, whether they reproduce by spores or not, as you say, or is by binary and multiple fission, but binary and multiple fission looks like the reproduction of the increase of the number of squares in private-initiated schools, because if in the 2016-2017 course they increased by 200 and 6, in 2017-2018 there were 440 and 4. I think yes, which is a binary and multiple fission, very clear, besides! We continue to demand this increase in public squares, especially because when the legislation began we read an article from the Spanish Association of Private Teaching Centres — which I have shown you on many occasions — where I visited the Director General of the Family and said: "As regards the indiscriminate opening of public schools, the Director General of the Family has committed to curb the construction of new public centers in areas where there are already private centers." More than a year ago, you told me you were going to send a rectifier, you're still hanging on the website and there's no single note or reference from the Galician Union, which I understand the positive silence, which you don't want to ideologically bother with, Mr. Counsellor, because there's no need to renounce ideology, and political parties — logically all of us — have an ideological basis. [[Applause]] As for the new government, and I'm done now, if you're going to ask for the same thing you've asked for so far, you mean that you won't ask for anything, you won't ask for anything. Anyway, on the subject of poverty, don't worry that the President of the Government has already announced that there would be a commissioner, and that it would be a strategic line. I'm glad you laugh at her, I don't know if she laughs at the more than 20,000 poor workers in this country who don't have access to the Risk because you've delayed the development of that decree for over three and a half years. That's the laugh! So you let the Government of Spain take care of that strategic line, and you do your job here, which you're not doing right now. The same as with regard to equality, which will be — as it has been in all governments of the Socialist Party — a matter of priority. And I say the same thing to you, when it comes to equality, you are concerned about what is happening to the workers of the Consortium, who are directly dependent on their negotiation and who are, of course, suffering very serious situations at their jobs that directly attack equality. What I was telling you, Counselor, is that if you really want to have policies that are not screen policies, that are not advertising and propaganda, what you have to do is a model, a political model change that not only reaches your economy, but all the transversal policies of the Galician Union. And thank you very much, President. [[Applause]] I leave the president with the budget execution box, because as we always doubt the data we give here to the opposition groups, so he can bring it to you. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u88	He said he had come to respond to the whole opposition, but he had to point out how much the budget will be in the coming years for this conciliation plan, instead of telling us that he will recompile the games of different advisors that have to do with conciliation; how much will increase, because this year 2018 the specific budget has not been allowed. With regard to the Finnish box, it's not an obsession, it's evidence of something that's funny, because a box that immediately dismantles it with samples of these that have banned its sale -- these samples with those that add up large surfaces -- it's not equivalent to the Finnish model that says you're walking, because we're going to the maternity and paternity permits: Finland, 38 weeks. In front of one of the states that has greater wage equality, especially at the level of incorporation — the Nordic states — from women to employed work, we are in a Greek context in which since 2014 the wage divide is being enlarged, because recovery, the supposed recovery, does not reach women; this year the wage divide is again enlarged. In front of a Nordic model in which there is a broader coverage of children's schools, we are in a model that, as has already been explained here, wants to consolidate this model of the Bono Council to consolidate the model of concert also in child education. That's why we're talking about the Finnish box, and also, of course, we're talking about it because it's not comparable to the precarious employment model that exists in the Nordic countries, and without decent employment there is no reconciliation possible. Then, about the family types, I'm left without talking about the families that have a disabled person in their position, especially if he's a minor, who obviously have much more difficulty in conciliation. In that sense, it has already been said here, why not speed up these assessments of the degree of disability?, why don't fixed equipment be incorporated to account for the structural demand that are the requests for the degree of disability assessment? Because this causes serious prejudice to families with minors, for example, they cannot access scholarships, or families with complex economic conditions can delay treatment or training of children with various disabilities. And as far as public employment is concerned, I think it is very brave that the Government is proud of... Okay, after many years at last the Consortium has acceded to the Fifth Convention, but they still have suspended Article 19, which is about rest, and this is essential for conciliation. On the question of public employment, they don't have to boast. As for what we were saying that conciliation requires cross-cutting measures, measures on the basis of employment, measures on a number of axes between which is the bet on public services, in which, of course, the service of 0-3-year-old children's schools is central to conciliation, but it's not public squares that cover the rate of 40%, they are publicly funded squares, they are squares that consolidate that model of financing private entities. And as for industrial polygons, in 2016 four hundred squares were promised in seven schools, and two projects were hosted. Today, the 2018 order is also published and the budget has already been reduced. Obviously, they don't succeed at EUR 800,000, which only aspires to four schools? Why aren't they successful? Because there's no agreed plan with social agents. Business daycare is a key element for reconciliation and also for an increase in productivity, but if it's not consistent with social agents, it's not going to succeed, it's not enough to publish an aid order in the CEO. Then, as far as childhood schools are concerned and also talking about nesting houses, what viability will have the project beyond 2019 when the pilot project is finished? In fact, they should bet that they also have stable jobs in the rural environment for the care of children, because what they're doing with children's homes, in many cases, is also precarious employment, especially in women who are in the rural environment; there has to be a more stable working relationship with people who hold children's homes, which is a resource that seems very interesting to us. And in children's schools, we also beat him to the top of families with more sons and daughters, instead of taking more account of the issue of income, and there would also have to correct something about the barrier. While we demand a public education network of 0-3 years, which is a central element of the pact that the opposition — which we are the alternative of its Government, is already an alternative to its Government — calls for the real reconciliation that we will make in the coming years. Finally, to finish, it is to reconcile it is to talk about social model change, as we have already stated, because the current social model does not allow reconciliation, neither does it allow time for care or care for us, nor does it allow a network of public conciliation services that fills all needs. Stress appears, guilt appears, dissatisfaction appears, and the result is that this society is not made for life, and we are guilty, too, of all political forces. Why does the institutional agenda allow us to models that are compatible with life? Is this roll of statements, of appearances, especially of headlines, this living pending of the second allows us to reconcile? No, we have to change the social model.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u89	Thank you very much. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, it seems that the opposition is counting on the days for you to leave, it must be that you are doing very well as Social Policy Counsellor that every time they come here to talk to you, because if you leave Madrid, you leave for other places. The truth is, you can stay calm, even though the socialist government would win a good minister of social policy if the Counsellor had been for that government to manage. But unfortunately it won't be like that. [[Applause]] And here we are talking about, by the opposition groups, that this is a question of ideology, the extreme ideology of the People's Party, and the extreme ideology of the opposition's left-wing groups. Well, if we speak in those terms, we speak of that extreme ideology, for example, of the Galician Nationalist Block, which thanks to its extreme ideology in 2009 only 19 children in every 100 had a public square in a childhood school. But of course, the top of the hives is that now the Nationalist Block Galego comes to say that this data is the fault of President Fraga. Let's see, here we can't talk about the Bipartite, we can't talk about the municipalities where it governs in Marea, where it governs the PSOE and the BNG, but it turns out that if in 2009 Galicia was fourteen points below the ratio recommended by the European Union, now it turns out that it was President Fraga's fault. Of course, you can't find any more excuses to defend what you've done during your stage. Because look, if you criticize extreme policies... yes, Mrs. Prado Cores, it's for you. He just criticized the extreme policies of the People's Party. Because, of course, this is not a question of people, it's not a question of social services, it's not a question of budgets, it's not a question of resources; it's a question of ideology. And, of course, the ideology of the People's Party was that this year's ratio was 41%, eight points above the average recommended by the European Union, thanks to that extreme ideology of the People's Party! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But, of course, this poor ideological model of the People's Party, which you just criticized, in nine years, increased by twenty-two points the ratio of public squares in children's schools, and this extreme BNG policy, so good, in 2009 led us to have only 5,000 public squares in children's schools. Today, 2018, Galicia has 10,264 public squares, 100% public. Because when he talks to the councillor of public squares on the Blue Chicken network, you do the math and say the rest of the squares are arranged. No, you forget that there are childish schools of municipal competence, childish schools that depend on universities, public hospitals or social institutions. They cheat on the accounts once more. And of course, they say the opposition doesn't hide ideology. Of course he doesn't hide the ideology! What you have is a double measuring stick, a double face. Because it turns out they're coming here with a fallacy saying that the Galician board is privatizing children's schools, and it turns out that 97% of the public squares of Galician children's schools are managed directly by the Galician board. But of course, what happens when they're not here? What happens when they're in another administration? Well, when you're in a county, what they do is privatize 100% of the squares in children's schools, 100%. So what credibility can a Member or a Member have when he comes here to launch a false news about the Galician Union saying that they are privatizing themselves when they are, when he closes the door of this parliament and goes to their councils, those that privatize children's schools? Really, what a measuring stick! I mean, it can't be that you come here to criticize Risga, come here to take a look at what you're doing in other municipalities, because it seems that the spokesperson for the People's Party can't talk to the councils, but when the spokespersons for the opposition, or the socialist spokesperson, they can get rid of the management of the Vigo Council. He pulls his chest by criticizing the Risk of Galician Union and turns out Vigo is the Town Hall that later manages the Risk records. But, of course, this is what the People's Party can't say, you can't talk about Vigo, you can't talk about the municipalities where you rule. You can only talk about the People's Party and the Galician Union. By the way, from now on, you can't talk about the State Government either. From now on, you can't talk about the State Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u91	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u92	Finally, Mr President, saying that the opposition is intended, Counsellor, to discredit — it is his role — his work to support families. But, of course, we have made it clear that what is being done right now by the Council of Galicia is to position Galicia in the second position of the communities that most support the family. And I'm not telling the People's Party, I'm not telling Junta, a report from a research group at the University of Vigo. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez. The social policy advisor, Mr. King Varela, has the doubling shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have noted in this debate, the policies for supporting the family and promoting reconciliation cover many areas of action: family coexistence, support for the upbringing of children and children, education, conciliation, health, housing, transport, leisure and a long et cetera. I have focused my intervention on issues that are more social-related, which, as you can imagine, are the ones that are most responsible for this advice. And in that sense, I can assure you that the provision of more assistance and conciliation resources is a priority in which we have been working intensively these years and in which we are going to continue working for the next few years. This commitment is not only words, but it is also reflected in data. First of all, Galicia will have the next course a 41% public-funded ratio of children's school squares. In the next 2018-2019 course we will have new infantry schools from the Blue Chicken network, new public schools. Look, you don't really turn into private institutions, municipalities or universities. The first public school network in Galicia — as it could not be otherwise — is that of the Galician Union. That it doesn't exist from the Bipartite? I'm sorry, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, to go a little further, but President Fraga already had public childhood schools in Galicia. So they haven't been invented with any government, fortunately they've existed for a long time. They increased with President Touriño and increased, as never before, with President Feijóo. [[Applause]] These are the data, they may like the data more or less, but these are the data. According to the fact that I give them, because we are not disguiseing anything that is public in private or anything that is private in public, the second network in Galicia of schools is that of the municipalities, because the municipalities have been in existence for a long time and the municipalities for a long time have social vocation in Galicia, regardless of who governs the municipalities. Because the municipalities, in the end, have to serve their neighbors and neighbors. And that second network is the second public network, so they don't talk about thousands of squares because the second thousands of squares—after those of the Galician Union—are those of all Galician municipalities; by the way, they all receive help from the Galician Union. And that's why -- not for looking for any makeup in our words -- we're talking about public-funded squares. Yes, because also the councils in which the PSOE governs, the councils in which the BNG governs and the municipalities in which the Tides governs receive public funds for the maintenance of children's schools, as could not be otherwise, because we do not discriminate against the municipalities regardless of the political color that their governments present. I'll welcome you so you know why we're talking about public-funded squares. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I'm going to give you another clue — I wouldn't give it to you, but I'm going to give it to you. Do you know how many concerted squares we have? [[Laughter]] Of 24,000, some less than 500, so look at that percentage. [[Murmurs.]] I don't think in 24,000 you can talk about any government's privatising anxiety, because, I say, the public's government is increasing by 104 percent; so I think our priorities are very clear. Because this debate, in addition, is very good for Parliament, but then for people, for families, the most important thing is to have squares. The most important thing is that when they need a child's school, they need help, the most important thing is that they have policies. That's why we don't want to discriminate in rural areas, neither do the families, so the children's houses, so our children's school initiative in business parks, so the Welcome Card. Thirty thousand families in Galicia are benefiting from the Welcome Card, and we will continue to increase the beneficiaries, and we will continue to increase the years to which we will help the future Greeks and the future Greeks, because the more years of direct aid for birth we will achieve, the closer we will be to the countries we want to approach, which are reference countries in the demographic field in Europe. So we also increased tax deduction by births or adoptions of children in Galicia by 20%, so we increased in that same percentage the single payment for children under three years of age, so we increased the bonus in Galicia for the next school year by 25% when we talked about the second child and by 50% when we talked about families having their third child, and that is why we kept increasing the welfare benefits. That's why we're going to continue to work to better care for the numerous families in Galicia, which are the ones that contribute most to Galicia's future demographics; that's why we're going to create the register of single-parent and single-manental families; that's why we're going to increase support for host families, because we prefer foster families to centres, whether public or concerted, we prefer families to centres. We prefer cement affection. And we're going to spend about four hundred and fourteen million euros on attention to our elders and attention to people with disabilities, the biggest investment, do what the state government does. We are not thinking — Mrs. White, I have to say — that today's the People's Party is white and tomorrow's the Socialist Party is black. We defended, with a government in Spain of the People's Party, that Galicia needed more funding for dependence and we kept thinking the same thing. But, look, as we have self-government -- I told you before -- we will continue to demand, but we will try to comply. Indeed, this year, reaching a 90 percent attention ratio, we're going to overcome all the communities governed by the Socialist Party with regard to dependency this year—you'll see!—we can see it this year. For now we have overcome almost all of them, but we are going to overcome them all; unless, of course, the distribution here is as if done at other times. But we'll be careful. But really, we're not going to wait for that either, because with the resources — not this government — of the Greeks and the Greeks, we're going to give our elders who are waiting and people who have some kind of disability and all our commitment. So we're going to look at them, and we're also strengthening the evaluation teams -- as I said in this House. We had to strengthen them for two things: because we needed more staff and also because we have increased regulations so much that red tape often constitutes a challenge for access to a right. This advisor, of course, will always prioritize access to rights over bureaucracy; therefore, we will continue to invest more in the family. Since the creation of the Social Policy Council, investment in families -- this is a given, a figure -- so I have to read it -- has increased by 52%. Of course, I understand that it seems to them a little less than three years to increase investment in families and conciliation by 56%, but that's what this government has done and — most importantly — is what we're going to do among all of us. I appreciate your contributions because we have a lot of way forward to complete our family strategy and our conciliation strategy. Nothing else, thank you very much. And very good days.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u95	Thank you very much, Counselor. We'll stop until late in the afternoon, we'll restart at 6:00.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u96	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session with the third item on the agenda, which are motions. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the situation and working conditions of the staff of Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u97	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u98	Thank you, President. Yesterday's headline: "The High Court condemns Junta for dismissing a worker with an abuse of law based on prevarication." Rooted in prevarication, law fraud, manifests a diversion of power... the Councillory of Health condemned once again by a diversion of power and law fraud, a situation that is quite serious despite the fact that we are increasingly accustomed to the convictions of the Council of Health. Year 2014: The Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia annulled the public summons in a case already known by all of us of nepotism, in the case of the assignment of a place of address to the husband, by that time, of the Health Counsellor. The court appreciated power deviation once again. Another holder yesterday: "Judge No. 1 of Ourense condemns Sergas for not paying medical guards for maternity leave". We were talking about machismo this morning in this gallery. The conviction indicates violation of fundamental rights, violation of equality and discrimination by sex of the worker. And these are just a few examples of how the Health Council, the Galician Health Service and, therefore, the Galician Council of Health workers and public health workers in this country, against what is often intended to say in this gallery. For some, everything; and for public workers and workers, nothing, which are precisely those who raise and support the public health system despite the unfortunately increase in cases of corruption, which have given precisely to the central government of the People's Party. They and they bear that price that must be paid for corruption, that price that must be paid for cuts. And nothing, no response from the health counsellor to the auxiliary nurses of Vigo, who were in the past full in the rostrum and who left just as or worse than they arrived, the TCAE of the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro. And although three sanctions were withdrawn yesterday, three possible sanctions, three files to three workers pool in the hospital, they remain vigilant or remain open to the rest of the files against the rest of the workers who protested and who did not take on such duties as non-medical professionals. There was not a single apology from the counsellor, despite knowing and knowing that the companions were in the guest gallery. Not only that, but there was not even an apology for the words of the accused manager, who said — and I remember again — that she was responsible for the comrades to see, harass and hinder the other professionals. I've already said it in the previous plenary: empty attempts to try to divide the health professionals precisely to avoid the professional struggle for their rights. We haven't heard of any kind of apology from the counselor for the coercion suffered by Ourense resident doctors and the insults by the Ourense Administration, accusing them of lack of sensitivity and commitment to the needs of the hospital and its patients for making a claim that should be absolutely obvious: having proper dependencies, that the billiards have water and that the floors are not broken or lifted. Poor complaints in the 21st century for professionals who care for our health. And there was no excuse on the part of the Health Counsellor just for claiming the dignified conditions and how these professionals are treated. And it's not strange to us either, because it's the same way they treat the rest of our professionals, and how they're still treating ourense hospital professionals. As we recall in the previous plenary session, despite their protests, despite their demands, of the closure they have maintained, of the collection of signatures, they observe and despise all kinds of complaints they make about the absence of sufficient staff to cover the entire bed of the new part of the hospital. Not only that, but in full protests in multiple hospitals of the Galego Health Service, they announce a new closure of beds, regardless of the complaints of the professionals, because if they keep people in the corridors, in pavilions, waiting to be attended. At the same time, the Board approves a new closure of beds without any kind of justification for data and reasons for assistance. I know they're going to give that percentage that they say of occupation, but that's, however, incompatible with the reality in which you see people waiting in the corridors. We have a problem: the same is true in the University Hospital Complex of Santiago de Compostela. Despite complaints from the professionals, although, in fact, as we told you in the Health Commission last week, they increased and put a more locker/ceiling on the night shift because it was necessary, how do you deny the rest of the professionals' claims, as if it were not true, as if it were missing the truth? And we have a very serious problem, and I'm really worried about it. I say it honestly. Because the data offered by the Galician Board and the Health Council are totally different from the data provided by medical professionals, nursing professionals, auxiliary professionals and janitors who work in hospital emergencies — in this case by Santiago de Compostela — about the number of care and the number of people who come on each shift. And it is unthinkable that, with this situation, with these data, with these protests and with these people in the corridors of Santiago de Compostela's emergency service, if you announce a closing of beds imminent again. It's disrespectful. There is no excuse for the aggressions - I understand - verbales made when there is no lack of respect for professionals, nor for the bad decisions that are made in health management in our country. And what can we expect from this Council of Galicia? Because in this data the Director of Technical Assistance, in the Committee on Health, said that the staff were the right one for the attention to be given, totally denying the Director of Assistance Processes of the Compostela Hospital Complex; that is, neither among the offices of the Galician Board itself are they agreeing whether it is correct or not the attention, with which, of course, it gives a lot of thought to the credibility of the data provided by the Health Council. And what can we also expect when they're in the situation that the workers of the continuing attention points have? They're the same ones that care about us when we're sick. We're going to primary care and, continuously and forever, twenty-four hours, we have attention. On many occasions, the efficiency of the workers has been transferred here. I corroborate it, and I think we should be proud of its professionalism. But that is precisely why it is totally incomprehensible that they keep them in the situation that, despite what we have been dealing with here in this House, that it has been said that there is economic recovery, they have been carrying a frozen salary since 2010. We'd all like to be in our homes on weekends, Sundays, holidays, and those workers and workers as well. And there's an element for any plant of public or private workers, which is precisely the abolition of penosity. But it turns out that these people don't just have to suffer from this pessimism, they don't just suffer from shifts, they don't just work on holidays and Sundays, but they don't even get paid, or at least they don't get 100 percent paid. That's totally incomprehensible. And not only do they take on that pesosity of shifts, the difficulty of conciliating, the difficulty of labor without means -- because we also know how the points of continued attention in our country -- but they have to assume that they are not paid for it. And the worst thing -- we say it here and in commission, and I really think it's a scandal that you haven't assumed and that you haven't taken any kind of action when a health care officer, who may not be aware of how your counsellor is, listen to such a thing -- when a family member dies, when you have to ask for a permit, days for a disease, for a death -- I mean, I said it here in the full past -- may die a father, a mother, a direct relative, make them recover the days. And that's not only totally inhuman but it violates minimum labour standards. This situation is taking place in our Health Council, in the Galego Health Service, at the points of continued attention, to the present day, 2018, the 21st century. How, when this question is moved by the workers and the workers, you can despise this aspect and not take any kind of means! Because I'm sure it violates more than one labour law. And how are we going to assume that you're going to take some kind of measure in that sense if you don't do anything about primary care in our country? It's totally bleeding. They have been denounced for active and passive lacks of professionals in our country, largely due to the depreciation of squares. And yet there are closures in health centers also in the summer months. Because we're still absolutely the same. I am sure that from September on we will be tired of introducing the Health Commission to all the problems that will arise from the shortage of professionals in health centres. Because if there are now waiting lists at some health centers, what will not happen when they close shifts, as they're already announcing, for example, at Tui's health center in relation to afternoon shifts. It's totally bleeding. We still don't understand, by the way, why there is no recruitment list for medical professionals in primary care cases and what policy is going to be taken in this direction. And, therefore, what we propose is that the specific, specific, urgent problems of Santiago, Vigo auxiliaries, the problem of CHUO, primary care, continuing attention points are addressed, and that, in general, they start to re-establish professionals. Because we're going to have a problem, not just now, but when the heat starts, the vacations, the summer months and from now on when the retirements that are pending start, which I don't know if you're going to be able to approach the Health Council. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u100	Good afternoon. The employment situation of Galician public health personnel has been a cause of concern and occupation of the Galician Nationalist Block. We have therefore submitted many initiatives in this regard, with regard to the reduction of prices, with regard to public offers of unsatisfied employment, with regard to precarious employment, with regard to recruitment for days and hours and the stress situation of the care provision in which workers and public health workers are engaged. And we're not going to get tired of repeating that health professionals and health professionals are human capital, which is the most valuable thing the public system has. And in that, at least by word, because all groups have agreed. Surely the honourable Member or the honourable Member who ascends the People's Party, who goes up here to the rostrum, because he is going to do a lot of praise to the professionals, will say that they are very grateful and that they are fantastic professionals. And then it won't correspond to the performances they do or the resources they make available to them so they can develop their activity. The People's Party at Galician Union behaves like the worst employers with their own staff. The Health Council has been found to be the worst of the patterns with the staff. You deal with staff with a "or accept these conditions or imposed, order and command." And this is the situation, today, June 2018, where we find ourselves: a staff who follows frozen agreements ten years later. In 2008, he was frozen by those agreements with the excuse of the crisis -- a staff who had been robbed of rights with the excuse of the crisis and who had barely returned a substantial part of those stolen rights. And this People's Party, in the Government, every time it returns a small part of that stolen, it does it with big alharacs, as if it were a big question. I have to repeat again that these agreements were intended to be no less than a minimum replacement of rights, because the health personnel are in line with those rights with respect to the state and with respect to the rest of the staff of the Galician Union. I don't have to repeat this question anymore, because it seems fair that, a staff who develops their activity because in a condition of 324 days a year and 24 hours a day, Sundays and holidays, at least have the same conditions as the other staff, but not even those seem enough to the People's Party. Of course, we have brought to this Parliament the demands of the staff of the emergency services virtually all hospitals; the demands of the workers of the CAP, who denounce that their working conditions have not been revised for ten years; indeed, since 2008. They report that they work continuously in minimum services. That this is impossible to continue because the stress and fatigue that they suffer is unbearable. And, above all, because the quality of care they offer is not the quality they should give. They no longer bear this situation, they come one day yes and another also to the exhausted, desperate house, because they work in a limited situation of their forces. We brought here the situation of the CHUS emergency personnel because, in fact, there are no means, no resources, no materials. It's not an immediate situation, it's a structural situation, and it has to be addressed as what it is, a structural problem, and structural solutions have to be put in place. As for the situation of the TCAE of Vigo hospital, the management of this hospital, instead of standing by its staff, is, as always, set up to defend the interests of the concessionary company of the new Vigo hospital; that is, an authentic indecency. Next week, the BNG brings an initiative here, this Parliament, so that Sergas takes the side of his staff, defends the interests of this rather than the concessionary company. All these demands are fair and necessary, and certainly the BNG will not tire out of bringing him to this Parliament either. That is why we are going to support this initiative, because nine years of the People's Party's Government have only assumed setbacks in working conditions, loss of rights, precariousness, policy of back turned to professionals, deaf ears, pre-eminence, order and command and taxation, and so the staff cannot be treated, which, I insist, is the most valuable public health in this country. That is why we support this initiative and hope that at some point the People's Party will have, not just words and words, sensitivity to the public health professionals, who — I insist — are the most precious thing we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u102	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. From the Socialist Group we will support the motion before us, which has numerous demands, basically of two types. Some of them are certainly generic, and some of them are specific about some of the centers. We believe that we could actually extend the specifics to virtually all the centres, with the particulars of each one, and that it could even be — even — places — something wider, but we understand the specificity and we understand the specific intent of each of the points, so it didn't make sense to make any amendment, we accepted the willingness of the Group of the Tide to present it in this sense. And that's because, basically we share the essence behind this problem, which is a personal problem. There is a serious staff problem in public health in Galicia, both of quality and quantity. So far, we have practically heard in this legislation that this was our dreams, that this was an unjustified alarmism, that we were against the system. Well, you can try to do a sort of information gathering, trying to avoid your own information and relying on alien information, which in many cases gives professionals or your own data, and take a brief look at some of the issues. Recently, some media published a comparative data on the ratio of professionals per patient in the Greek system compared to the Spanish average, and 23 specialties were published. I suppose he didn't try to fine-tune those points where we're worse, but he made a pretty clear assessment of a health system. Of 23 specialties, in 3 of them we equate. In other 3 we're better. We are worse than the Spanish average in 17 of the 23 specialties in the ratio of professionals per patient. Almost, almost, like the concierge we have in Vigo. And we're only better at 3, almost like the conciers who will stay in Vigo to you shortly. [[Applause]] The professional schools say: Having more specialists is not enough if we are not able to stay. And we don't say it, say it in professional schools. They also point out, "We don't need any more MIR squares for some issues and specialties, but yes for pediatricians and family doctors," which is what we've been defending in our group for a long time. Let the Thursday contracts be improved. The health adviser said a little ago — and this is quite curious —: "Workers talk about contracts from Monday to Friday and return Monday to the same place." And he says, "We don't use that formula." And add, "and if you've ever used it, I don't agree." I mean, almost everything was true, except for something. Which is the same as saying: there was no box B, but it won't have it again. I mean, this language thing is very curious. The counselor says that this formula was not used. A little later, in an interview, they ask him again, and his answer is: then there is! And it's been three weeks apart. Three weeks earlier he said there was nothing like that, and three weeks later he said, then there is! Sometimes you have to fall out of the ass even if it's late. Physicians warn that the working precariousness of the substitutes is detrimental to patients. President of the Medical Council. That's what it's all about? In things like what's been talked about one day here from Sweden, in an interview with a professional Welsh woman who's in Sweden, who says, "I'm not going back or crazy; in Sweden I have 30 minutes for each patient." February 2018. In May this year, another means of communication, interviewing a primary doctor: "I have seen 50 patients today in seven hours.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh You do the math: 30 minutes per patient; 50 patients in 7 hours. This leads to quite wrong staff policies. You remember that in 2011 there was a health retirement policy -- 70 years. In 2012 they imposed 65 forced. In 2016 they expanded to 67, and this year to 68. They're going up and down depending on how time comes. We have to plan with a certain vision of the future. By the way, retirement is known about time with quite a forecast. So you have to be a little predictable in that sense. The dean of medicine sees the CHUS mortal and unattractive, and says that in the path of the crisis we are doing it wrong. Less than 15% of MIR contracted in a stable way in the system. Doctors want the MIRs to be hired when they end their residence, and then when there's this precariousness, what comes to? In which the High Court condemns Junta for dismissing a worker with an abuse of law based on prevarication, or the European Union judgement, or that The Lancet, that magazine of which you suspected a lot, when you did a study on deadly diseases, says that we are no longer, for the first time in history, among the first ten sanities in the world. That's his inheritance. The legacy received from the People's Party will be that for the first time since the General Health Act we are not among the top ten sanities in the world. Thank you very much, gentlemen of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u103	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u104	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. First of all, apologize for the voice. I'll see if I can resist until the end of the intervention. I believe, Mr. Torrado, that he spoke only of a point of an inheritance, and should speak of some other, for many more to speak think they are reflected today in some means of communication. [[Applause]] It's very difficult, Mrs. Solla, for the counsellor to apologize or answer in the interpellation because you spoke of anything less than what was recorded in the interpellation, which I think I remember that he was talking about emergency influenza. Actually, you talked about workers, you talked about waiting lists, you talked about closing beds, you talked about MIR, you talked about nursing assistants, you even talked about radiology and lab staff. And today he brings an omnibus motion to this plenary which is similar to his intervention. With regard to the first point of the matter, I have to say that the absences of Sergas personnel are being covered both in primary and specialized, whenever the needs are required and, of course, whenever there are staff available for such substitutions. You know that today replacing family doctors, pediatricians and other specialists is practically impossible, both here and in other autonomous communities. If you check the hemerothecary a little bit, you'll realize that I'm not saying anything strange. On the other hand, we believe that planning and staffing of squares is an administrative power of the organization that is always carried out through the Budget Act of the Autonomous Community. We know, and you also know, that the agencies in the various health areas hold regular meetings with staff meetings, where they deal and negotiate matters of interest in the field of competences of each of them. And with regard to the point of claims from some of the CHUS emergency groups, I believe that the explanation given in Commission 5 to Dr. Aboal, the Director General of Health Care, left things quite clear. He explained what was and what was not; what had been strengthened and what had not been strengthened; and what material was rejected and what was not rejected. I think you've picked up the figures for everything, and I think you're very brave to say that you can fake the numbers of emergency care from a hospital. I think this is very serious, I think it gave the figures and it gave the average of patients who attended every medical professional on medical shifts, and I think those figures are very below international emergency standards. Actually, what surprises me most about your motion is the sixth and seventh points. At the sixth point, he asked the Galician Parliament to urge the Galician Council to withdraw the sanctioning files initiated against the clinic assistants from the Álvaro Cunqueiro hospital. You intend to be tempted to withdraw an administrative file in the investigation process, in the face of the repeated disobediences on the part of this staff — according to the media — to the orders issued by the Hospital Administration, after one day you had stopped picking up the dirty clothes that were in the doors of the rooms and at the ICU, and that you had not moved to some clothing containers that are there. I think that we all have clear that you have an obvious risk to the health of people who have entered. I really don't know who's right in this conflict, I don't know if he has Jan or Pericán, and I don't know who's going to give the reason to the Health Administration or justice, I don't know, I don't know, but I think -- and they should be with me -- that attitude seems irresponsible at least because of the risk that could happen for the health of the sick. Subsequently, a lock was held at the hospital door with screams and attitudes — which also appeared in the media — that bothered patients, visitors and hospital workers themselves, altering the normal functioning, which was suspended after the Administration had warned that complaints would be made. I suppose the files are in the process of collecting evidence, and it will be the Inspectorate who will decide whether or not they are in breach and what can happen. I suppose you, Mrs. Solla, will not doubt Sergas' public health inspectorate. In our group, of course, we trust the prompt solution of the problem, but we think that the removal of a file, aside from the established procedures, might seem prevarication, and we're not going to insist that it be done that way. And with regard to the last point of his initiative, it is also surprising that they intend to meet the demands of workers of Sergas' continuing attention points. Don't negotiate it, as in the other points; here it is about meeting. The demands are being studied by the agencies. There are staff-specific meetings for competition issues, and they are in constant communication with each other because of the need and importance of coverage of this service. Now, it's also surprising that you support these claims of parallel movements, in this case one called "PAC on the foot of war", which goes beyond the mechanisms established by labour law, such as union, commissions of centres, staff meetings or sectoral table, which represent the workers as a whole. We're not going to support your motion, Mrs. Solla, for the three reasons I told you. We think the absences are covered by substitutions when needed and when possible. That the creation of squares is the authority of the administration and no other organizations. And that workers' representatives are being negotiated with the different eves that are being transmitted to the Health Administration. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u105	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Author group of the motion, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u106	Thank you, President. I would like to thank the opposition groups for supporting this motion by En Marea first, and for transferring it to the People's Party and its health spokesman, who welcomes the union defence as the partners of the workers and workers. Welcome, and thank you for the deferral. But the protest is not illegal, as much as you care about it and have been building rules for years that penalize the protest. And if you say removing a file is preprimary, why did you commit yesterday from Vigo Power to withdraw several of these files from the nursing assistants, whom we are expecting to know, by the way, when you're going to recognize their work, their skills and their category. We don't know when they're going to be granted a category C1. I don't know if the accused manager is Jan or Pericán, Mr. Centeno, but what is irresponsible is that an agency has waited a year and a half since the conflict began. Because first it was the cleaning workers, who were right and right, who assumed that it was not their job to carry with a responsibility that was yours to privatize the services, to build the hospital as they built it, and then, the consequences for the workers, both private and public. About a year and a half of them took this! Last year and a half they were warning him! And until the cleaning workers were given the reason in a trial, no measure was taken on the side of the board. And what measure did he take? Intrusion to the public workers and workers, who don't blame the privatization you've done at a public hospital. That's irresponsibility, that's reality. And what is an obvious risk is not that the bags of dirty clothes are piled up; what is an obvious risk are the cuts in staff, which make people have to wait weeks, months and years in the consultation cases — not as Mr President said in the past full — to be attended. That's an obvious risk! That's irresponsible! And that's your responsibility! And you will understand that if you tell them that they have to meet the demands of the continuing attention points. It was what was missing that, above all, they had to negotiate if they returned what had been pending to return since 2010. Do you think it's normal for a person to die a relative and have to return the day? Do you think it's normal for them to make shifts that exceed 24 hours? It is the European Directive, aren't you so European? They don't even comply with the regulations. You're breaking the law with these workers, and you're breaking the agreements that have been negotiated with those unions, which you say are the representatives and whom you have to negotiate with. I think negotiating on the negotiation is absurd, Mr. Centeno. The reality is that there is no willingness to give workers their rights back, not even when they assume a 3% increase in GDP. Where's that money going? Of course, the workers' pockets aren't. To work free on Sundays, can't ask for days, to be in the habit of giving one, or not, a shift of work... but what is this? What operating system do we have in the public health system? It's not decent, Mr. Centeno. You'll understand that we can't assume the claims that are made here. And obviously -- and I'm done because I don't have time enough -- that it's said to cover casualties, permits and vacations whenever needed, you'll understand that it's a need to go to the primary health care doctor or doctor, or to the nurse or nurse, and you don't have to wait a week and a half, like in some health centers in the summer months. If that's not a necessity, I don't know what will be a necessity. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, on the activities to be carried out in Junta de Galicia in relation to the protection of the cultural heritage of the Way of Santiago
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u108	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u109	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, because this is not an afternoon like any other, of course, a different afternoon, than the nicest we've had since we entered this Parliament. So we have to be blessed, and to bless, of course, all the people who have been jumping for years to show that if there was any will, it was possible to end with the austere Government of the People's Party. That it would be possible to rule for the majority. [[Applause]] That if there was any will it was possible to finish... how nervous they are!, how little they like democracy!... We know that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That it was possible to end corruption, to end the patrimonialization of institutions; finally to end the Government of the People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He could and could. It is truly a pity that Mr Tellado is not here today — and so many others —. The stripping of the People's Party today is terrible, they're very busy with other needs. It's a pity I'm not here, but they can pass it on to you. We actually could, we could throw out the People's Party of State Government, as we could throw out the People's Party of Government of Galicia sooner than later, without any doubt. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Listen... you should get used to listening because if you come to Parliament, if you don't, you can be in other things. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Listen! Listen! Pay attention, because they might not like it, but the countdown has no doubt begun. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We spoke in the past full of the protection of the cultural heritage of the Santiago Way, the multiple deficiencies detected and the need for powerful action by the Administration in its defence. In that sense, we wanted to insist: the Way cannot be, as it has been, just a tourist claim. It must be careful and preserved as part of our heritage. That's the only guarantee you can stay. But besides not guaranteeing their proper conservation, even their tourist potential, over and over again, will end up being threatened. That's why we said in our interpellation that, as many defense associations of the Way of Santiago denounce it, conservation must and can be done differently. In that sense, we must understand the motion that we bring to this House today, with a series of modest proposals — to our understanding — that could help to preserve the best cultural heritage of the streets of Santiago. First, we are in favour of the proposal to submit before the end of this session the Comprehensive Road Plan, as set out in Article 82 of the Galician Heritage Act. I'll buy the lei. So ambitious is the first point of our motion: to comply with the law. Two years after you, the Members of the People's Party, had approved the Galician Cultural Heritage Act, we know absolutely nothing of this integrated territorial plan; a plan which, as the above-mentioned article states, should serve for the effective protection of the Way, and especially of its cultural heritage. [[Murmurs.]] How do you explain that two years after the passing of the old law we have nothing new about it? Is there any time limit for your forecast? From Marea we think it's urgent to do it as soon as possible, so we urge the Government to compromise temporarily on the subject, so that we have this tool as soon as possible. Secondly, we propose a three-month report on the foreseeable impact of the Touro mine project on the Santiago Way. As we have often denounced since this rostrum, as the neighbors of Touro, who have been working tirelessly on the platform against the mine and will bring to Compostela on Sunday, are, of course, many of the threats that the copper megaminery project has brought together: environmental destruction, of course; loss of jobs; risks to the activity in the Arousa River; health hazards; and a long et cetera to which we also have to add several threats on the Santiago Way, an important economic motor for the surroundings and which passes less than a thousand metres from the place where the mine is located. As the platform denounces, it is going to be a direct impact of it, from which today the Government has said absolutely nothing. Quiet. As a matter of fact, the councilman made it clear on three occasions, in the plea we put to him in the middle of the past, this question, he didn't deserve a single comment. Well, we want to know; the neighbors and neighbors around the mine want to know, and they have a right, of course, to know. That's why the request for this report, because we need true data on the foreseeable impact the Megamining Project would have on Santiago's Way. Third proposal. To submit, within a period of no more than three months, a report on the heritage damage of the Road produced in the last decade. That the damage already exists is evidence: wind farms, changes in plots, asphalts of frames, bridge replacements, tree branches, diversions of the Way, etc. The councilman didn't even try to answer our last plea. In fact, he was eager to share guilt and say that many of the things we were talking about were government bipartisan responsibility at the board. We have already said that we are not so interested in sharing blame and taking responsibility, and more than nothing to work on measures that prevent the problems from repeating themselves. In this sense, it is necessary to analyse in detail the heritage allocations produced in recent years, with the objective of seeing how we can act to shorten them: when did they do it?, in which places? There are especially sensitive points on the Way, how can we act on them? These are issues that we understand fundamental to trying to recover and protect the cultural heritage that is part of the Santiago Way. Fourthly, we defend the launch of a dialogue table with the heritage associations and the Santiago Way to develop a heritage conservation plan. The fundamental idea is that the Way cannot only be in the hands of the Galaga Agency of Tourism, a body that we understand is not suitable for heritage conservation. First of all, because, of course, he has no competence to do so; and secondly, because he's not one of his goals. In this regard, the adviser in the previous plenary said that the property issue was the responsibility of this general management. And yes, about the role itself, but the reality is, if we compare the budgets linked to the Way that manages the Council of Culture and those that manage the Directorate-General of Tourism, there is no possible comparison. The bet is clear: absolute torture! It is undeniable that the management and care of the Santiago Way requires permanent attention between its conservation and its empowerment; risks and opportunities. Interests that on many more occasions of the desirable can be counterbalanced; i.e., they will be countermeasured. In that sense, and trying to balance the balance, we thought it would be interesting, urgent and necessary to count on expert voices in heritage conservation to work on a medium and long-term conservation plan. See how we can reverse the damage produced and, of course, how to prevent it from continuing to occur. How to protect our heritage from constant tourist pressure that takes place day by day on it. Finally, our motion includes the proposal to submit, within a maximum of three months, the pending delimitations of the Way, namely the Portuguese Way, which, as I explained in my inquiry on the matter, the Board should have already published. But we don't know why the Portuguese Ways are still in a drawer. It's urgent to get them out of there; it's urgent for the Government to get to work in its approval, because without delimitation — they know well — it's practically impossible to apply the legislation on the protection of historical heritage. [...] seems simple: delimite to protect; protect to preserve. These measures — we understand — would help to preserve the heritage and, of course, would be a good news for that coming Year of Jacob in which they say they are so worried. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u111	A little happy if it's this afternoon, just to see a little clumsy this side of the bench; it's always a little fun. But I am moderately optimistic about all the news coming beyond the plateau about how they can benefit this country. In any case, we'll be happier all of us, and all of us, if before this session is over, for example, we see the work reforms or the Mordaza Law being repealed. Then we could talk a little more about happiness! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And whatever happens to you now to vote in favour of derogating labour laws! It wouldn't be the first time we'd be surprised at something like this. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u112	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u113	I, if you want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u114	Quiet, please. Not even there. Attention to whoever's talking, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u115	...I don't say I don't care about Santiago's Way, but if you want to turn this into a debate about which positions on the question of work to Madrid, I wouldn't mind either. [[Murmurs.]] Focusing on the question of initiative, on which issues should be reported from this side of Parliament, since the Nationalist Block Galego we always defend that the Way of Santiago should be the opportunity to trust around ambitious and transversal policies that were far beyond what its implementation has been. Even though some people here might be happy to walk around and stop talking while the rest of us are speaking. [[Murmurs.]] He's feeling a little tense — I insist — and tense. However, as in other areas of the cultural sphere, since the Galician Union we see that in its intervention there is a lack of an orderly set of priorities. Above all, there is a lack of commitment, a lack of country project and a lack of well-orientated resources. And the heritage is a clear example that, in relation to the Way of Santiago, the Hunta de Galicia is more concerned with statistics, that many travellers and travelers can be presumed through it, to lead those numerical statistics that give this monoculture where numbers are the most important thing to them, not in what kind of wealth these visits are translated into, that relationships between them and the walkers with our territory, or how this can impact on the care of the heritage, both from the perspective of the administration and from the very consciousness and collectiveization of the need to care for that heritage from the neighborhood. We understand that heritage can and must be much more than a tourist resource, which must be a key to collective self-esteem as well as self-knowledge of what we are as a people. But if we analyze the combined Santiago Way and more Galician Union, we're seeing a cocktail of fatality that the People's Party applies, a short-sighted and simple vision of the Santiago Way, an absolute lack of planning. And the results, in addition, speak for themselves. We see how much money is spent in general on heritage to the Galician Union, which has an accumulated cut of more than 52 million euros since Mr Feijóo is president of this country. We don't know what historical debt will let us go to Madrid but, of course, it's the perfect storm for the Union to have given up on that guardianship work that doesn't always do as it should. So we see constant non-compliances and serious problems that we have wanted from the BNG. And we want to remember, in addition, a very important issue, which is that, as far as heritage is concerned, instead of working with the collectives and associations that work in this field of action, it is more against. And it was even the Way Forum itself that had to denounce before UNESCO itself the actions that the Galician Union took directly on the Primitive and North roads. In this sense, we also wanted to point out another reflection, which is that it also seems that there are classes on the various paths of Santiago too, if I'm allowed the metaphor. You've got French on top of the others. By the way, always taking account of the weight of the number rather than other potentials. I can't help but mention the way along the coast and also ask the lords of the People's Party that in these days of Mr. Rajoy's farewell which, please remind him that it is Sanxenxo, which doesn't cost so much, it doesn't cost so much, it's Sanxenxo, it doesn't cost so much. [[Applause]] Even now, if you're going to have more free time, you can come around here and do some practice. Anyway, there's a lot of the issues they let go of. And, by focusing a little on what Mrs Chao was picking up on the initiative, we feel positive about the issue she raised about the Touro mine. Over the past few months, we have been called exaggerated and exaggerated when the opposition put the impact of the rivers on the table, and now we have the observation not by En Marea or the Socialist Party or by the Galego Nationalist Block, but by the Galician Waters that, in fact, those rivers are affected by heavy metals pollution. But there are many more also issues that seem to us to be positive in this proposal: those that point to the failure to comply with the Heritage Law. I also insist that, for us, these issues are important in relation to the strips of protection that are not being respected either for cutting or planting the species that are due. And to show a button, because, above all, the People's Party, in the Business Implementation Act, on that bus law, has also taken advantage of to relax the supervisory function. Because now simply with a statement of responsibility you can already count those sizes, instead of having a stricter procedure. Nor is there any kind of oversight agency that randomly checks the paths to see if they're being met. There are also many questions — and Mrs Chao was saying in her original explanation — about the distances from landfills, mining and so on. In short, it's more of an example than the Galician Union likes to do what it does. But right now, that we're almost on the 25th anniversary of that UNESCO heritage statement, I wonder if you've met the Galician Union, if we're fulfilling as a country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u117	...and what that should involve. And I think the answer is clearly not, and that, therefore, should do a little less advertising and propaganda on the Way and apply a little more budgetary resources. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Well, let's talk about the Way. As everyone knows, the road is made on the floor, and in these days many have begun very different paths leading to many different places. I have no doubt that the road that will bring prosperity, change and finally open the windows of this country is the road started by Pedro Sánchez in Madrid. [[Applause]] That's the real way. On the other hand, Mr. Feijóo, who is making his way backwards — i.e., he goes from Santiago to Madrid, following which of those paths — could give us a report on how those roads are, since he is doing it throughout these days. [[Applause]] What I do know is that the paths of Santiago in Galicia — because the Way, of course, is in different countries, in different autonomys — the different paths of Santiago in Galicia, are being treated, as Mrs Luca said, as a tourist resource. And it's true. Basically that's what they care about, it's a short-sighted view, in addition, because what they're interested in is the number of pilgrims who go and come along these paths; but protection, no. And protection is fundamental to a cultural, architectural heritage and also landscape of prime importance. That they never cared about the Marcano Way well. The first step in protecting a path is to delimit it. The Union had an obligation to delimit the roads, the first of which was French — BIC since 1985 —. He didn't. Then, by law, I had an obligation to do so since 1996, because there we had the Cultural Heritage Act. He didn't. He didn't start delimiting the roads until 2011, 20 years later. That's what they cared about the Way. Who, on the other hand, began to delimit some of these roads? The coalition government between the PSdeg and the BNG. Those have begun to delimit the paths. We couldn't finish, it wasn't possible by the time, but we did start. [[Murmurs.]] On the other hand, Mr. Feijóo, who is on his way to Madrid, left us here bound a number of roads; but, ten years after arriving in the Government, they are left to delimit the Path of Fisterra-Muxia, the Via da Plata and the Way Mozarabe and, what is much more important, the Portuguese Way and the Path of Winter. I say they are the most important because the number of pilgrims on the Portuguese Way is growing very much and, as such, is being attacked in many cases without doing anything at all. And when you put together, essentially the Union, delimiting, there are multiple problems. For example, on the Primitive Way, so many criticisms of the Road Forum were raised, of neighbors, even mayors of the People's Party, by how the Primitive Way was delimiting itself, in which it was making a delimitation outside the original trace and ending with some of the important cultural and environmental values of that path. Not happy with that, which has been condemned by the Forum, by many pilgrims and by neighbors is the kind of treatment that is being given to them in many ways. The Primitive, which is what I know most, is expanding with heavy machines, is throwing gravel, real atrocities are taking place on that road. I don't have any more time and, as I don't have more time, I just want to give you a graphic view, this time of how the Way takes care of Galician Union. I'm going to show you a medieval house, of medieval origin, which is surrounded by a heritage of humanity: the wall of Lugo. It's in the middle of the primitive road and it's property of whom? From the Xacobeo, that is, from the responsible for protecting and promoting the Way. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the state of this medieval house owned by the Xacobeo, in the middle of the Primitive Way, the heritage of humanity by UNESCO, surrounded by the wall of Lugo. This is the protection that Joine is doing with the roads. Look, when this thing that belongs to Jacob is like this, what moral authority is there to ask private people to fix their buildings? It's the Xacobeo who's got this. I think you should think about it, gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u121	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mrs. Chao, I listened very carefully to your inquiry into the Way of Santiago last week, it couldn't have been any other way, and even today, because it was the first time your group had referred to this matter. And I have to say that you let me down for a basic reason: your lack of knowledge about the Way of Santiago and your recent history in our autonomous community, almost like Mrs. Presas. You went up here to this rostrum and talked about problematic issues of the past and the present of Santiago's Way by attributeing all the blame to Galician People's Party Board. You have mixed concepts, made a cocktail with fires, mines, polygons, wind farms, industries... everything is deteriorating the way because of the People's Party. He didn't care about contextualization, timing of facts or competence. He wants to make it feel like there's a complete chaos around the road. It's not true. Mrs. Chao, it was the governments of the People's Party who believed in the Way of Santiago. So much so that in 1991 it was the Government of the People's Party that created the Management Society of the Xacobeo Plan, an exclusive entity to enhance the Jacobean route from all areas, with the view placed at that time in the celebration of 1993, the holy year of 1993, but which today also continues. Here the recent history of the Way begins to be written. And if you were to take a look at Jacob's memorial books 1993, 1999, 2004 and 2010, you wouldn't say things like the People's Party conceived the Way as a gigantic amusement park, or only tourist exploitation policies developed. It's not true. If you read the Plan Director of the Santiago Way approved in 2015 you'd see lots of actions within each strategic line that are not touristic. Because, Mrs. Chao, the councillor has already explained it, for the Galician People's Party Board, the Way is a joint project of government action, it is inclusive with other administrations, it is participatory with civil society, especially with the associations of the friends of the Santiago Way. I know that it is very difficult for you to understand this because you are an unwelded amalgam, where each current has its own interests and where particular interests prevail over collectives, even have invisible and irrelevant Members. That's why they don't understand the comprehensive action of the popular governments for the value of the Santiago Way, but they don't understand Galician Cultural Heritage Act either. Look, Article 82 does not speak of an integral road plan, but of an integrated road plan. That is, from an urban planning document that will set the general lines for the maintenance and preservation of the cultural values of the Way and for ensuring an integrated harmony of the territory. You ask for a report on the foreseeable impact of the Touro mine on your way. Look, according to the data available, the Touro mine—even you said here was a mile away—is out of the historical territory of Santiago's roads and even out of its buffering area, out of the protected and declared BIC areas of the world heritage. In this way, competition for your study and impact must be made from other competent bodies. But make sure that, if the project has at any time affected the Way, the Union will apply the law, the Cultural Heritage Act and the laws that are needed. You ask for a report on the property damage caused in the last decade on the Way. See, if the Autonomic Administration has knowledge of damage in the past, or in the present, it does not report, it acts; it acts according to the law, requiring and sanctioning. On the dialogue tables, you should know that in the provinces of Lugo, Ourense and Pontevedra there is a Road dialogue table where all local administrations are quoted. Only the constitution of the province of Coruña is missing. In spite of the request in this Parliament at the September session, it is unconstitutional, it is pending for Parliament. And what did you vote, Your Honor, at that moment when we asked for the constitution? On the contrary, just like the Galician Nationalist Block party. And of course, yes, Mrs. Presas, there are classes in heritage, and the classes are determined by the levels of heritage protection. You should know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Finally, on the request to delimit the pending paths within a maximum of three months, it ratifies that they do not know what a delimitation procedure means and how complex it is to obtain the starting document that allows the initiation of the whole subsequent process. By the way, protection has other effective mechanisms today beyond delimitation. That's why we're not going to support your motion, Mrs. Chao, but anyway I want to make a positive reading of your effort and I'm going to think that you, In Marea, really have a concern about the conservation and put in value of Santiago's Way. They begin, then, by showing such interest in the municipalities where they govern, to do good or to say that "value works and not words". And I didn't want to finish — allow me, Mr President — without a word for Mrs Burgo. Mrs. Burgo, be quiet, we are, because we are backward and we will meet on the way. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u122	Author group of the motion, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u123	Thank you, President. Thanks, of course, to the Socialist Group and the BNG Group for their support for this motion. To the People's Group... at last, little surprise. Neither the nervousness nor the cliché, nor the surprise that undoubtedly surrounds them today is able to get them out of their usual posture: not by the no, again and again. So much so that they even say they're not the things that are in their own laws. Of course, that's how you approve any laws! As a wet paper, no interest in making them meet because we could get one every day. They're not saying they're not complying with their own Heritage Law either. Of course, I say, little surprise. This law has been breached since the moment it was approved. But not only that, you're saying no to the ideas that even collect in other documents that you've approved and that you've quoted here now, such as the Plan Director and the Strategic Plan of the Way of Santiago, of Galicia, 2015-2021. And do it, Mrs. Antonio, that we even know how to read; and yes, we read. I will not doubt your abilities for nothing, as you have done, because you bring nothing. I'll give you the fact that you've read it. Then you will know, Mrs Antón, that the proposal to initiate the delimitation procedure of the Portuguese Way, the way of Fistra-Muxia and the way of the south or the way of the Silver is collected. We're talking about the same thing. What we're asking is that it's not an enunciation where there are so many documents that it's absolutely useless. What we ask of them is that they stop simulating what they do and do. Turn him into an engagement and set him next date, not within 20 years. And we also have to talk about the heritage issue. We propose, indeed, a participatory dialogue table, because we think that is the best way to proceed. A concrete proposal that fits perfectly with the Action Plan 2.2 of the previous Strategic Plan — yes, we read, and sometimes we understand what we read! — which takes the title Strengthening mechanisms for protection and control of the Way, as well as placing in value of the heritage. Moreover, this plan — I suppose you know — includes the proposal to establish a priority programme of intervention on heritage resources; updating the heritage catalogue of the territory, the routes of the Way of Santiago, and the determination of the preferred actions, especially of the heritage classified as well of cultural interest. As utterance is fabulous, but to this day it is that, just an utterance, they have done absolutely nothing! If you vote for our motion and you will also be one who takes part of your own plans forward, so ambitious is our proposal! It will be a yes, of course, to defend and protect the cultural heritage of the Way of Santiago as a legacy of the future for our daughters. It would be to bet on paths to the future for all of Galicia, and not to continue to sink into the short-sighted policy of bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. And it would, above all, be to provide information on fundamental issues that concern the entire citizenry. I told you, they'll tell you on the 10th day in the streets of Compostela. They won't be able to ignore it as they just did here, as if it were a joke. They'll have to take into account the impact the Touro mine will have on the heritage. There are reasons for concern. What we expect from the Council of Galicia, what we expect from this government, is something of seriousness and clarity when it is asked for specific information. To get up here and deny that it's going to have an impact is simply to miss the truth. You can do it with opposition groups, you won't be able to do it forever with citizenship. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions that must be carried out to ensure the full enjoyment of the rights of returned Welsh persons
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u125	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u126	To formulate the motion, Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u127	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. We also greet the people and representatives of the immigration group who accompany us today in this plenary session. And there's nothing left for me to do before, because I think, Mrs. Antonio, that we're barely going to ask you for explanations about that species. I don't know if it's a veiled threat or... the truth is, it's hard to understand. And you were talking about classes in terms of political class. I think... then we can't understand that kind of threat. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It seems that parliamentary systems requiring consolidated political responsibilities — yes, Mr Moses — in the Constitution are there, and we must be able to win, and we must be able to lose, and we must be able to render political responsibilities to Spanish society. That's why there are things you'll have to explain at some point. [[Applause]] Yes, and I say it calmly, with maximum political respect, but also with the highest political requirement for parliamentary and constitutional mechanisms. There they are, and don't try to turn the tortilla around as they're trying to do in different areas. But we are going to the initiative that is taking us, because that is what brings us to this motion and what really interests us to listen to society, especially to the groups of returned migrants. This motion, as you know, will serve and implement the request that we have had the opportunity from the Socialist Parliamentary Group the other day to speak to the Vice-President and President-in-Office in accordance with what I will now comment on. The other day, precisely the Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency, on the occasion of the statement of inquiry, told us that, frankly — as always in the Journal of Sessions — we were doing a weak favor from the Socialist Parliamentary Group in putting some of the actions being carried out by the Government of Greece on immigration, and not taking constructive policies forward; and that we should give the Government of Greece an opportunity in this regard. It is precisely this motion, like so many motions that are dealt with in this plenary session and the motions that have been dealt with earlier, that are, of course, motions that they act and try to carry forward policies and actions of a constructive nature. That is why we, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and in contact, of course, with the concerns and sensibilities of the collectives and associations of migrants returned to Galicia, present a motion which is divided into five points which I want to clarify in some way. First of all, the first aspect, the first point of this motion, is evidently addressed to the set of returned migrants, who, almost since the year 2013, on account of the tax harassment campaigns launched by the Minister Montoro against returned emigration that came out of Galicia in the 1950s, sixty-seventys, received, as I say, a situation of tax harassment because, as we all know, much of the immigration returned pensions equivalent to situations of great disability or permanent disability cannot be applied as a reduction, as an exempt income, as established by the IRPF Regulatory Law. And at that time the Minister Montoro, while on the one hand he did give rise to a great fiscal amnesty, with great support from the Tax Administration, and without submitting the tax relief file to tax exemptions the large tax fraudsters who welcomed the tax amnesty—and I will not give names of all known—, on the other hand, the collectives of returned emigration were receiving inadmissible tax pressure. That is why, firstly, and in a coordinated manner, of course, with the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Congress, we are also, of course, also addressing the Central Government which chaired the People's Party and the Central Government which will now preside — and is already presiding — the Socialist Party to establish as a matter of urgency a procedure for the approval of the pensions of the foreigner with the pensions of Social Security so that those who are due to absolute permanent disability or great disability are exempt from the IRPF and are excluded from any requirement which has been made for tax purposes. And while this type of approval is not available, the requirements that the Tax Administration is making for return emigrants with the public pensions of the foreigner of these characteristics must be paralysed. And it's not appropriate for more IRPF management, investigation or liquidation actions to return emigration groups, because we remember that in the six-month regularization process of 2015, only 20 per cent of return emigrants were able to regularize their situation in our country. In that sense, I insist that both this motion and the non-law proposal, as well as even a proposal for urgent measures in relation to the taxation of pensions from abroad, were and are the initiatives that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party is processing in this and other legislative chambers, so that the situation of returned emigration does not continue to suffer from tax harassment and tax discrimination that it is suffering from other tax obligations in our country. Secondly, the second point of the motion, which logically demands, is a scrupulously compliance with all the agreements negotiated in this Chamber precisely, in the motion for a non-law which our parliamentary group had tabled and which had debated and approved this transaction with the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party at the plenary session of May 24, 2917, which basically collected four points. First of all, as we know, we demanded and continued to demand, of course, both in the previous Government and in the present Government, an action by the government of the State of priority and prudent firm with the Government of the Republic of Venezuela which is affixed by dialogue and also by the guarantee of democratic freedoms in that country. Secondly, we demanded and continued to ask the Central Government for an urgent solution with the Government of Venezuela to comply with the social security agreements between Spain and Venezuela which were signed in 1988. And at the third point, in that motion that we would compromise and have occasion to comment, we precisely incorporated in that transaction that mechanism by which we asked the Central Government, the Government of the State, to set up a mechanism to bring forward — in those social situations that so demanded — pensions that have not been paying for more than two years now, the Venezuelan Government to those returned migrants from Venezuela who are needing it every day more urgently. That is why we clearly call for the immediate fulfilment of the agreement taken in this chamber on the occasion of that LNP negotiated on 24 May 2017. Thirdly, and in absolute consistency with this request, what we are also asking the Central Government in this motion, and while the Greeks resident in Spain do not receive the pension payments from the Venezuelan Government again, to give effective compliance also to the agreement in a bill that was adopted precisely in the Committee on Employment and Social Security of the Congress of Deputies in December 2017 on this same line. In that motion we were insisting in a clear way that mechanisms are established whereby Social Security does not withdraw the minimum social security supplements when it is considering as the income calculation criterion that is obtained not only the officially recognised pensions, but the pensions received. And in that sense it was what was established in this LNP in the area of Congress of Members who had been approved. Fourthly, and in congruence, of course, with some issues which we pointed out the other day to the vice-president and chairlor, what is absolutely urgent and necessary is that in the management and granting of non-contributory pensions that he deals with, manages and resolves the Social Policy Council, if he takes into account in the incompatibilities regime the pension criterion received, not the pension criterion recognised by the returned emigration from Venezuela, in order to be able to access precisely the CNP. And finally, what we're asking is that in relation to the entire group of the immigrants and the Welsh immigrants who are returning from Venezuela, given this critical situation — because we remember that they have been failing to receive the Venezuelan Government's pension for more than two and a half years — the Union establishes a special unit for the full attention of this collective, and therefore changes the criteria to be able to solve the NCPs that are within the scope of management and resolution of the Government of Greece. This is the set of measures that we reflected in this motion to implement that question to the Vice President of the Board, because, as we said the other day at the beginning of the exhibition, Galicia is not only in the four provinces, Galicia is also in the diaspora, and Galicia also has a very special obligation with all those emigrants who have decided or are almost forced to return to our land. Nothing else. We look forward to the support of the House's political groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u128	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u129	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Greetings to all who accompany us today also in the rostrum. The demographic challenge, which most of the European territories will have to face in the coming decades, will undoubtedly have to count on emigration, and in this area our community, Galicia, has a great strength in the value that the first-generation Greeks bring to us, but also those of the second and third generation, who reside abroad, who can return to Galicia. To facilitate this return, the Greek Government has just launched the Back 2020 strategy, with an budget of 235 million euros. The duty of the different institutions is to ensure that all of these Greeks, both those who choose to remain in the countries where they are and those who want to return, have the help of the Board and all the institutions so they can enjoy excellent living conditions. At this point in time, of all the communities of the outside and those of the returnees, the ones who are most concerned about us are those of Venezuela. Venezuelan government policies are triggering a humanitarian crisis without palliatives. In addition to the lack of rights and freedoms, we must also add the lack of the least, from food to medicine itself. The situation that the Welsh people live in Venezuela, but also the Greeks who come back here, as already explained in the exhibition of this motion. Of course, Mr Villoslada, we want to support, once again, the initiatives needed so that this situation can be resolved. We did this every time we came here with an initiative in this regard, and the Vice-President of the Board himself said it fifteen days ago: we do not agree with state legislation on the granting of non-contributory pensions or minimum supplements, which take into account the amounts recognized and not the actual rights, which is actually charged. As the Board has already done to grant social integration aid, which since 2016 collects what is actually charged and not the rights recognized to give such aid. Our priority is to solve the situation of Venezuelan returnees who are not collecting their pensions, as this motion collects. I hope that for once — I sincerely hope — will also be the priority of the Members and Members of En Marea and of the BNG. I hope for once they think like Welsh, like parents, like mothers, like children who don't have the least to give to their relatives because of a government, Mr. Maduro's. And I hope for once you think more about the Greeks than about your friend, Mr. Maduro. Mr. Villoslada, I also hope that President Pedro Sánchez will not follow Zapatero's star in Venezuela, I sincerely hope; because there is not much of the reason Sánchez gave to never to deal with Podemos was the bond of the Party of Pablo Iglesias with Venezuela. "The end of populism is Chávez's Venezuela: poverty, ration cards...". It would be nice to know what Mr. Sánchez thinks about this today. We thought, from the Popular Group, as we thought. We denounce the situation of the Greeks who live in Venezuela and the situation of the returnees who are here and who are not collecting their pensions. And as long as that doesn't happen, as long as this solution doesn't reach them, we will push for measures like those we want to support today. We also put in value those that to help them are carrying out the Galician Union within their competences, actions that the Government of Feijóo does, both in Venezuela and Galicia. In 2017 the investments made for Venezuela were 1.8 million euros, and in 2018 it will be 2.2. But besides, the aid to returned migrants last year multiplied by 3 initially budgeted, in order to meet all needs; 80% were for Venezuelans, a quarter of the scholarships of excellence to youth also for Venezuelans, and 42% of the aid for entrepreneurial return, also for Venezuelans. As I said, the social inclusion aids that put in place Social policy are already being made taking into account only the money they're charged, not the money they're entitled to. And in the attention of the country itself, it works on individual aid, social emergency, and also entities, to give them the least. In total, we were working last year with 2,500 Greek families in Venezuela. And now we're going back to the initiative, because it's time to say that we're going to vote in favour of points 1, 2 and 3, and we're tabling an amendment to points 4 and 5, which we're also willing to compromise if we don't approve those points as we do. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u130	Thank you, Mrs Arias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I was deceived. Here you put Mr Bará. Have they changed now? Well, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u131	Thank you, President. Yes, yes, it was absolutely our mistake. Good morning to all and to all. Mr Villoslada said that in his speech, two questions have been raised in this motion, in the resolution, on which the Socialist Party spoke. And I also want to greet the people who are sitting and accompanying us on the bench. You can't do gestures, but... okay, they greet us and accompany us from the guest bench. A first question related to the caliber, that scam that hit thousands of people in our country, returned migrants, who saw as after decades working outside of Galicia, decades of effort to get ahead of their families, after retirement they received and still receive unequal tax treatment, an absolutely unfair tax treatment, which placed them and treated them as real fraudsters, as if they were fraudulent people. Mr. Villoslada said so, and he remembered that amnesty. But it's true that at that time, when thousands of people in our country, returned migrants, they mobilized in the streets in defense of their rights, what we saw and what we were going to know was, day by day, cases of corruption and misrepresentation of leaders of the People's Party. While these people were being treated as tax frauds, we knew every day of the wrongdoing of the People's Party. Today we already know that there was not one, not two, not three, not four, but a system of institutional corruption as it collected that sentence from the National Audience. By the way, page 155, poetic justice. And I want to make a point here, because here in this gallery we are dedicated to dissecting the democracies of other countries, teaching democracy all over the world, but little or nothing we look at the situation that affects democracy in the Spanish state. And more than giving lessons to the rest of the countries, we should worry and ask ourselves how it might be possible that B accounts have existed since I was born, since I was born! Since 1989. [[Applause]] It was precisely the social mobilization of those people who are sitting up there, the ongoing social mobilization, for years, of the platforms of returned emigrants, which he achieved, with a lot of struggle and with much effort, that legal reforms were approved which partially palliated that tax injustice and were totally unfair that they were receiving by the Spanish Government. But those changes are not enough, they're not all done, as we've also denounced by the Nationalist Yellow Block in this House. In fact, there is an agreement, in addition to what Mr. Villoslada pointed out in his April 2017 speech, on the initiative of the BNG, claiming precisely a fair treatment for disability pensions. At that time — and I would like to read this April 2017 agreement — Parliament urged the Galician Board to ask the Spanish Government to introduce a clause in the negotiations of double taxation agreements allowing the recognition of disability certificates from any of the contracting States for the purposes of the tax obligations that they may have their pensions in the country of residence of the pensioner or pensioner. Since then — I insist, April 2017 — nothing has been done, nothing has been done on the part of the Galician Union, and it proves that these people are receiving new sanctions and new requirements. It is an absolutely unfair situation, and we are going to support — as we have been doing since the beginning, since we have had record of this unfair treatment, of this unequal treatment and of this craze — that proposal which the Socialist Party brings today. In addition, a number of points are also formulated concerning the situation of returned Welsh immigrants from Venezuela who are not receiving their pensions. I have to amend what you just said, Mrs. Arias, because since the BNG we have always supported these people's right to receive their pensions. That is a right, regardless of which we have not shared — and we have said so many times in this House — the vision that you have of what is happening in Venezuela. That's the BNG position. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u133	Good afternoon. First of all, we greet the people who accompany us. We want to start by pointing out that, generally speaking, the reality is that neither the Government of Spain nor the Union have had a welcoming treatment during these years for returned immigrants, despite propaganda. First, we wanted to refer to these campaigns of what can be called tax harassment of the Tax Agency, demanding retroactive regularization in the IRPF in pensions collected in host countries, despite double taxation. A situation that has affected thousands and thousands of pensioners in our country, and that now, as it has been remembered here, they are once again harassed by Fatenda, there are again such requirements. This criminalization, of course, even received calls for attention from the European Union, so we are in favour of the need for the approval of the tax treatment of foreign pensions with those of social security. The comparison between fiscal harassment to people who worked hard all their lives with amnesty to the big fraudsters was very close. This brings us here the comparison between structural corruption, which is generalized and demonstrated over the years of the People's Party and most honest people, and we want to say it. Before we continue to break down the various measures of this motion proposed by the Socialist Party, we also wanted to take advantage of them to remember that there were a number of harmful measures for returned emigrants. The shameful end of universal access to health care must be pointed out here. We now have an opportunity, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, to regain universality in health care. I was also having difficulty accessing social services or help. And we also never forget here the special bloody case suffered by the Greek sailors who worked on the ships in Norway in the years prior to 1994, who are considered migrant workers in that country, because they are considered not to reside in it when they are not physically working on land, and therefore they were deprived of the right to provide any kind of provision. However, despite the fact that we are talking about people with an average age of 80 -- some of them failed to claim their rights -- despite this, neither the German Government nor Spanish were interested in the diplomatic route to solve this situation, and now talks about Venezuela, but this situation has not been taken into account with Norway. The interpellation of the past full also focused, essentially, on the case of returnees from Venezuela who are not paying their pensions. We're not going to go into analyzing their complex causes, which also include financial and economic blockade. What we really want to point out is the situation of precariousness and abandonment in which many of these people find themselves, not having any other kind of income in our country. We have to keep in mind that we would be talking about 3,500 retired Venezuelans, residents of our country, in Galicia, who are actually not receiving those pensions. And in the case of being under 65, without benefits from the Spanish State, to those who acceded after judicial demands. This group of people, as I say, largely have a limited situation, since, when they do not have any income, they have to use savings, family support or even solidarity institutions. So, while it's not recognized that these retired people are actually not receiving the benefits, they can't have access to the state aid system in many cases. And it also happened in Galicia that they couldn't have access to the Risga. I want to remind you that here, Junta denied him access to Risga to a woman who was taking the risk but received a notice from the Social Policy Council that it was informed that in January he would cease to enter Risga for — literally — "to have recognized a pension of more than the benefit of Risk that would correspond to him." It was about the recognition, as you know, of that Venezuelan pension, which, in fact, was not receiving. It seems to be a contradiction, but we have set it out in this attempt to politicize the internal situation, to use Venezuela to make the Party's internal partisan policy, rather than to be strictly concerned about the problems of this community of people who are indeed suffering, both in our country and in Venezuela. We didn't frown on the difficult situation that many people in Venezuela are suffering. That's why we're going to support some points of your motion, but we can't vote in favour of point 2 because it introduces references to agreements of a GNP which was negotiated in 2017 in this House and which is supposed to be an ingenuistic policy. On the other hand, however, the GNP adopted in the Committee on Employment and Social Security, which refers to point 3 — and we have the points here — if it seems to us to agree and strictly with the need to improve the social situation of the group of pensioners in Venezuela. So if they have the right to vote by points, we will vote in favour of some.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u134	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Author group of the motion, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u135	Thank you, President. First of all, thank you for the nuances that have been made, and that I will have the opportunity to comment briefly, for the overall support of the House's political groups for this motion. Mrs Arias, Pedro Sánchez's position in Venezuela has always been absolutely clear in defending public freedoms, in defending transparent electoral processes and in defending human rights. I mean, in that sense, I don't think at any time you have any doubts. [[Applause]] And we don't talk about other former presidents, because they would bring us bad memories of some former presidents from the Azores, etc. Yeah, let's leave him. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] We know that the former presidents have a different, sometimes difficult position, but they don't try to avoid responsibilities because we are what we are. [[Murmurs.]] And in that sense, the current President of the Government has a commitment — as I say — to public freedoms, human rights and transparent electoral processes — I repeat — absolutely indisputable. In fact, the Socialist Party has presented motions in this regard, as you well know, in the context of the General Courts. And I would almost dare to tell you, in that sort of announcement of the 2018 budgets that it seems that they will be amended in the Senate, that in the matter of reform of the IRPF Law, to enable precisely that approval of the pensions of returned migrants, they amend the budgets in that sense. That would also be the People's Party's commitment to this issue of general state budgets. They have that chance to do it, not just by revenge with the PNV. Yes, yes, yes, they have the chance, if not, we speak for another reason... of course, because for that we are going to rule. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] But that's exactly why... well, well, that's why the story is applied in the work of political opposition. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] When we come to the specific issue on amendments, we would be in a position to come to a transaction in points 4 and 5, because, in the end, what we are requesting is that the inclusion change the criterion, so that precisely the Social Policy Council will change its criteria when it manages and grants non-contributory pensions. And what if we consider it important is that in the whole strategy on returned emigration, a special protocol is established that fully respects the collective of returned venezolan emigration. That's why I think in that sense we could come up with that transaction. I would also like to thank the intervention and support of the BNG Group, Mrs Rodil, for the text and the points of this motion. And so I would say 100 percent, but it can't be, Mrs. Verao, with regard to En Marea, because we would like to have received -- not us, but the whole of returned emigration, and specifically the returned emigration from Venezuela -- a more unanimous support to all these points. Because we're talking about problems, about public freedoms, about human rights, about non-transparent electoral processes in Venezuela, and also in other countries, but what happens is that there's a lot of Greeks and Greeks tied up with Venezuela, both working, living and returning. And that's why for us it's a special concern, not a political instrumentization of an emigration problem. Nothing else. That would be the meaning of our position on amendments. [[Applause]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u136	Thank you. Then you read the transaction? Thank you. At the end of the debate on motions, we shall proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Eva Solla Fernández. There are no amendments. We vote. G.P. transactional text voting. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the situation and working conditions of the staff of Sergas The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u137	We now vote on the motion from the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Ms. Luca Chao Pérez. There are no amendments. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, on the performances to be carried out in Junta de Galicia in relation to the protection of the cultural heritage of the Way of Santiago. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u138	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada. There are several proposals. One of the proposals is a transaction over points 4 and 5. And there is also a proposal for a point-by-point motion for a vote. You will tell us, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u139	Mr President, we will, of course, accept the vote by points. In any case, points 4 and 5, which we would compromise on the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, would be drafted as follows: "Point 4. It will change the criteria for the management and granting of non-contributory pensions by the Social Policy Council, while the circumstances set out in the preceding paragraph are given, to include the effective perception of another pension, whenever the Insert takes this criterion in its instructions." And point 5 would have the following wording: "Given the critical situation of a large number of returned Galicians and Greeks from Venezuela, who have not received their government pensions for more than two years, the Galician Union will establish a special protocol for the full attention of this collective." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u140	Thank you. So the thing could stay the next way, and if you accept the point vote, we could vote on points 1, 3, 4 and 5. You, Mrs. Vázquez Verao, had stated that point 2 did not agree. Will you go to yourself, Mr. Díaz Villoslada? [[Mr. Díaz Villoslada pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Okay, perfect! So we voted, firstly, points 1, 3, 4 and 5, with the transaction that Mr. Díaz Villoslada has just read. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions that must be carried out to ensure the completeness of the rights of returned Welsh people. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 50; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. These points were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u141	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We move on to item 4 of the agenda, of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga and D. Juan José Merlo Lorenzo, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the central government for the implementation of the figure of unjust or illegal enrichment in the Criminal Code, in order to advance in the fight against corruption
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u142	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u143	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u144	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Greeks and the Greeks, lords of the People's Party, have been simple, honest, hardworking and honest people over the centuries. The effort made to get ahead of this country was a joint effort in which citizenship itself was condemned to diaspora, emigration, because poverty pushed and did not allow any other solution; today we are following the same, unfortunately. In the 21st century Galicia does not deserve a government that represents a party surrounded by corruption and that does not respond to needs and solves the educational, labor, health and cultural problems of its people. You've committed tax fraud, bribery, embezzlement of public caudas, prevarication, money laundering, influenza trafficking, and you've been doing so for years. The judgment of the Gürtel case made a clear reflection of this sad reality. We're in the face of institutional corruption, and what's even more serious, has been acting from the political institutions, in the face of their multiple forms, with great permission. For years they've been committing crimes and allowed them to be unhindered; and thus, we've known multiple — too many — cases of members of their famous ranks for mansions, attics, travels, accounts in Andorra, Switzerland, the Cayman Islands, Confetti, Jaguars in the garage, envelopes in B, surpluses of all kinds and multimillionaire accounts to the health of the money of all while the country was in agony with crisis and postcrisis. Shame on you! A shame that also has a translation in this House, which is its absolute majority. That absolute majority of what they always do to suck and grant themselves legitimacy in taking authoritarian measures against the Greeks and the Greeks. An absolute majority in our opinion, and I've already said by justice, doubled and based on cheating and committing crimes already proven, and based on corruption, because Gürtel's judgment directly links the Galician People's Party to the illegal financing of the organization, with illegal financing through corruption, as its former secretary of organization, Pablo Crespo, at the National Audience and Congress of Deputies just a few months ago. That gentleman, President Feijóo, wants to hide the Germans and the Greeks by giving direct orders on the news-hidden TVG, denounced by the channel workers, but that if he is informed by private channels at the state level, for his anger, the bomb and the plate. So bad luck, gentlemen of the People's Party of Galicia! A large part of the Welsh and Welsh people know who number two is sentenced to 37 years in prison, from the plot Gürtel: Pablo Crespo, secretary of organization of the People's Party of Galicia and kept in his post by Mr. Feijóo. And you have won your absolute majority here in Galicia through the lodazal of corruption and constantly cheating. The reality of Galicia is completely different from that of the lords you operate with. And until there's nothing we could say that you yourself live very comfortable using everybody's money to live on top of our possibilities, the chances of people getting up every day to get ahead of this country, leaving the skin to you. [[Murmurs.]] The high unemployment figures; precariousness in all sectors; problems with dependency aid, which every day passes, are rising due to a more and older population; lack of alternatives for young people and girls; privatization, lack of resources and deterioration of health and educational services; cuts; recruitment to friendly companies to defend opposed interests to those of the people who have to rule; investments in megalomanian constructions, famous works of pharaohs, wasting taxpayers' money; and at the bottom of the landscape, the corruption that haunts their heads and extends their tentacles. Something we denounced through that Tramabus, which for Mr. Feijóo was an anecdote and which, unfortunately of you, became a dream come true. Galicia no longer has names left to find the corruption of the Galician PP. The children's imagination of extraordinary narratives is virtually exhausted: Pokémon, Pikachu, Campion, Carioca, Patos... As previously agreed in this House, in Commission 1a, unanimously of parliamentary groups, including you, this government has committed itself to urging the Central Government to carry out the amendment of the Criminal Code on the inclusion of a legal figure that intends to combat corruption, which is that of unjust or illegal enrichment. We'd like to know what their job was to bring to reality something that they approve of in this House, and if they really defend institutions and democracy in some way. With this GNP we want to avoid and denounce practices once again before they become a crime, because that is the great drama. It's not enough for them to go to prison, it's the least; the really serious thing is that these things happen in our country while citizenship suffers. It is also essential to approve this type of LNP so that we do not have to hear any more demonstrations in which the following claims are made: I received money irregularly; donations that were not declared. If there was irregular PP funding. Each year there were about €300,000; in the electoral campaign they increased to EUR 3 or 4 million, but only a million was declared. Of the funding received, 35% was regular and 65% were irregular, of money that was not declared. Yes, I've delivered 21 million pesetas in cash to the treasury of the People's Party; almost everything from public works builders, because, thanks to the donations, there were surpluses. Do you know who these words are? From your former secretary of organization, the well-known to you personally, Mr. Pablo Crespo, in the interview with Jordi Évole — the new whip of Mr. Feijóo — who received money directly for you, for the Galician PP, to finance them irregularly. This government, taking into account the current situation of the People's Party in the rest of Spain, can you appear before the Galicians and the Greeks and say that you have every intention of fighting corruption who falls down? Can Mr Feijó assure without hesitation that the acts committed by any official, political office or public servant that involve an unjustified enrichment of their personal property deserve to be punished by the criminal procedure? Or, on the other hand, is what we are to the holder of the day and to save the furniture with empty commitments without any intention of fulfilling, so that the citizenry believes that its party is capable of eradicating the scourge of corruption? Do you intend to eradicate it, while we see all the political corpses that are left on the way, the last censored former president of the Government, Mr. Rajoy, and since today former president of the People's Party? It's not because it's pessimistic, but, seeing the precedents and recent events, everything points to the coming difficult times, in which the fight against corruption is the least of the worries of the People's Group and the least of their battles, but there's a personal struggle to prevent you from continuing to blow up a whole plot like Gürtel. New cases come, Lezo, Punica, but this judgement of the National Court condemns your party. Yes, condemn him! except that, just as you did last week, Mr. Puy, you intend to come here to deny the greatest as they do in Madrid, saying that no one from the People's Party, nor the People's Party, but that there are people who do things, as the Madam Secretary General and former Minister, Maria Dolores de Cospedal, famous for his deferred salaries and also because there was no box B in the PP, but then... And we say that Mr. Feijó will do things, too. But, if possible, let him do good things. And we have asked him, on behalf of the Greeks and the Greeks, while he represents them at the moment, while not calling him Genoa, that the President of the Union is pushing a reform of the Criminal Code to introduce new figures, which are simpler in his formulation, which guarantee the normal and proper functioning of public offices and jobs; that he is able to combat corruption and its social consequences and punish in the criminal field the illegal getting of economic benefits, in a justifiable way, of civil servants, politicians and public servants, because all citizenship of Galicia and the state is absolutely scandalized. As we have already stated on other occasions, corruption is one of the main problems for citizens according to CIS. The second concern, no less. It is our duty to all of us in this House to make this perception change, and we have in our hands the tools to cover these empty laws that nowadays generate impunity for evidentiary deficiencies, which is also linked to the problem of the justice officers of this country, who do not have enough resources to do their work and to fight corruption. The General Council of the Judiciary itself reports that in recent years more than a thousand crimes of prevarication, misrepresentation, trafficking in influence or bribery, of which more than a hundred have been brought to trial. A thousand crimes! What do you think of this data? Or that, indeed, there are many innocent people, or, unfortunately, that there is no legal answer according to the facts committed, and we can set examples like Operation Patos, a process that has taken more than four years of instruction and threatens to leave many guilty without fulfilling their penalty. The Baltar case, condemned, yes, but with criminal figures like this could have been greater and compensation as well. The case of the Champion, whose sentence condemns the Public Prosecutions of the Galician Public Prosecutor for corruption, to which, by the way, the Board has avoided accusing precisely because Mr. Feijóo does not see criminal responsibility, but a simple lack of diligence. Well, let me tell you that you haven't been too busy, and maybe in the future -- especially if you're going to ask yourself to happen to Mr. Rajoy -- with the inclusion of this legal figure, you can better appreciate the difference between criminal responsibility and a mismanagement that is done unintentionally, wanting. Among other cases, they cause a social alarm to exist rather than justified by corruption. However, from En Marea — and I will finish — we call on all political parties to work together to improve the country's situation. Corruption is a structural problem that day by day causes the citizen and the citizen to stand out for every new case of corruption, which generates a breakdown in the system that does not allow proper economic and social development to be carried out according to the needs of the population, so that we do not have an unequal society, so that we do not have an unfair society, poor and without opportunity, so that we can return dignity to institutions, politics and citizenship. Let us be useful and firm in the fight against corruption: whoever it is and whoever falls. I know some Members want to laugh. It seems to me that this is not a matter — this one we are dealing with — of laughter, in no case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u145	Mrs. Santos, some expressions expressed by you ignore Article 105 and ignore the dignity of a group, in this case, when you use the expression "you are condemned for corruption," because that is inaccurate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, sorry. You damned... that's inaccurate. The judgment clearly speaks of participation in a lucrative, non-criminal way. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Murmurs.]] So I ask you to remove that expression.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u146	I'm not taking her away and I'm going to give an explanation, because I've been briefed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u147	No, no, don't explain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u148	I informed myself about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u149	No, no, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u150	...the meaning of my words and judges and journalists, publicly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u151	Sorry, no, no. Don't give me any explanations. You don't have to explain it to me, that I already...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u152	... made it clear that the People's Party is condemned for corruption. So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u153	No, no... You don't have the floor. Don't give me an explanation, I'll give you the explanation. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] You have a call to order. Because it is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I asked you to withdraw it, you don't remove it, you have a call to order. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u154	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. The judgment of the Gürtel of 17 May 2018, this year, effectively condemns for the first time in history a political party as a lucrative participant. It would be nice if the former Minister of Justice was here, because he said the party was only civil responsible. In the ruling itself, however, the civil servants differ, and the parties profitfully, condemned the People's Party in accordance with Article 122 of the Criminal Code. That means there's a profit, that's why it's lucrative. And that means that it's like I've got a transporter that suddenly comes to hundreds of televisions that I don't know where they come from, I have no idea, I don't know if their origin is legal or not, but I'm looking at those TVs and I'm buying a car. Well, it's kind of what happened with that profit-making share. [[Murmurs.]] That money was used to finance election campaigns, that's what happened, and that's exactly why you have to pay those amounts back. This sentence that Mrs De Cospedal... President, I'd like to make my speech without any email, if possible. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u155	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u156	I know it's hard to face the condemnation of a political party by the National Audience, but unfortunately, this is the reality. [[Applause]] This judgment which Mrs De Cospedal has named in some of her phrases as capcious, is the crane which, after all the cuts and all her actions as a government, led us to raise a motion of censure. It's time for you to know why there was a motion of censure. Just as that participation in the Iraq war led President Aznar to lose the elections against President Zapatero. [[Applause]] By the way, that President Aznar who by the way Mr. Núñez Feijóo no longer likes, because his referees are Suárez and Rajoy, he is no longer Mr. Aznar. Well, maybe at some point, when the time passes, Mr. Rajoy won't be your referee either, because there's this conviction. The fact is that this request by the En Marea Group to recognize the illicit enrichment in our order has already been discussed in a committee in Commission 1a. We made an amendment, the same amendment is the one we collect today. I'll repeat more or less what I said that day. We believe that we can't talk about injustice, but about illicit enrichment, because we're talking about criminal, not civilian. Criminal. And the United Nations itself tells us that it is not mandatory to include such crimes in the criminal codes of all states, because it may happen that they violate the Constitution by violating the right to presumption of innocence. In fact, only China and Lithuania have illicit enrichment within their ordinance, and for us, of course, neither China nor Lithuania are two countries that refer to as defenders of rights and the regulation of rights. It could be an effective and indispensable tool to fight against political corruption. On the street no one will understand what the conviction is for participation in a lucrative capacity, but everyone understands what it is for corruption. So, just as at one time the Supreme Prosecutor of Galicia told us that the money used by President Feijóo in connection with the fires, saying that the incendiaries were terrorists, it was a vulgar expression, that corruption can also be used as a common, vulgar expression, to understand the profit participation. It may serve — it would be good — for the law to lay down the obligation for authorities and public officials to demonstrate that they had goods at the beginning of their term of office and that they have goods at the end. And if there's any difference, there's some inaccuracy, which implies a criminal punishment for this crime. It would be good, too, that the Government of Mariano Rajoy of November 4, 2016, all those members of the Government, women and men, who are neither deputies nor deputies, manifest and publish what their goods are, because when they started they didn't, and now neither. For it would be better if President Zapatero's law were applied which in 2006 required him to communicate to the members of the Government — of his governments, because, of course, the others do not — what the goods are when he starts and when he ends, and whether there is any inaccuracy or inaccuracy in the middle, which is penalized. [[Applause]] And perhaps there would be more sentences, even, than we have to come, which are many. We expect our replacement amendment to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u158	Good afternoon. BNG will vote in favour of this initiative, as we have already done in the debate in committee. I am not going to repeat the arguments, but if I think it is appropriate to speak of a reality that is now — and now for many years, it is not present today — about the Spanish State as a political system, like a democracy, adulterous, with a political competition called, altered and manipulated by an absolutely systemic corruption that affects all the structures of the State in its version in A, and which questions the 78 regime from its own origins, from that factory defect that it has in its beginnings. As you have repeatedly believed, there is no separation of powers in the Spanish State. There has been a real public policy throughout all these years, both through economic and social policies, but also through action, as is demonstrated by numerous judgments, by real organized bands dedicated to looting public money. It also believes that the regime has much to do with the process of democratic regression, with the involution of rights and freedoms that we have been living in recent times especially, and that they do, as some analysts say, that the Spanish State, whether or not Spain, is not — I say it in English, in Spanish — a rule of law, but a state of waste. In addition, this is also something perceived by public opinion, as was said through the surveys of the CIS and the Eurobarometer published by the European Commission, which in its 2017 edition said that Spain occupies the third place in Europe where there are a greater number of people who perceive that Justice is not independent, specifically 58% of the population. We're at the third place in the ranking, after Bulgaria and more in Slovakia. There are therefore many duties on the European Commission. For example, it says that specific preventive strategies are not developed to address the risks of corruption; that there is a lack of legislation to protect complainants; that there is a lack of regulation of pressure groups; or that judicial proceedings are too long in cases of corruption. He also speaks of the interference and pressure of the Government in the causes of corruption, which also speak of the lack of independence of justice. The report of the Anti-Corruption Group itself, of the Council of Europe, also gives a suspension to the Spanish State in central elements of democratic quality, such as the monitoring of corruption and the lack of independence, both of justice and of the Prosecutor's office. And the truth — you have to say — within this framework of institutional crisis, crisis of the regime, the PP, the People's Party, is the European champion of corruption. In fact, he was condemned for corruption, for profiting from corruption, "in a lucrative way," not for selling televisions precisely, but for far more serious things. And you have to keep in mind that that's just a small part of all the processes that are yet to come, because it's part of the Gürtel plot, but it's still about to come the most substantial parts of the illegal funding of the People's Party B box, or also the process for the destruction of the hard disks of Basel, among many other causes that are still pending. So we're talking about the tip of the iceberg. We think, of course, that there must be a lot more means for justice to be effective and agile to respond to all these cases of corruption. That we have to debug, that we have to clean up, all those black wells of democracy, where the People's Party usually shags. And not only at the state level, but especially here in Galicia, they don't get profiled. I remind you that the European Commission itself, in its community competitiveness index, says that Galicia occupies the second place in the ranking of the most corrupt, after Andalusia. I think you should feel ashamed first of all. And because of ethical decency and democratic decency they must assume criminal and political responsibilities and they must also ask for forgiveness, and today they have a great opportunity to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u159	Thank you, Mr Bará. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Mr. President. This sad debate is being brought to us today. The debate on the initiative of the three lies. First lie. The debate itself brought us here. An initiative identical to the committee debate just a few months ago, as amended today, and I suppose unanimously adopted, as I suppose it will happen today. But yes, Mrs. Santos has no doubt in instrumentalizing Parliament, nor in twisting her own initiative, for the only purpose, for the only purpose!, that it serves as an excuse to speak of her second lie. What's the second lie? The total disqualification of the People's Party. And for this it serves this LNP, so you can give us your disqualifications, insults, half-truths or complete falsehoods about my party. Look, we're aware that we had episodes of corruption and that we made mistakes. And in addition, we are conscious and we turn away the corrupt. And in addition, we apologize for not being vigilant and avoiding such situations. And besides, we take steps to tighten the laws and never repeat them again. And all that we remember. But we haven't forgotten anything else that you shouldn't forget, Mrs. Santos. We do not forget that we are a party founded by a father of the Spanish Constitution. We don't forget we're the most affiliated party in Spain. We don't forget that we have thousands of public leaders of irrevocable behavior. We don't forget that we are the party that has always supported most of the Greeks. We don't forget that we've been given seven absolutes. And we don't forget that we're still the most voted party in Spain. And you shouldn't forget it either, Your Honor. [[Applause]] And we should not miss our people, because we're proud of the people who support us, we're proud of the People's Party. And by the way, I don't know who Mr. Rajoy is, but we're proud of Mariano Rajoy and point, and point, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Look, I'm so sorry you're here today to miss the reality. I understand that you need to lie about the extent and content of the sentence we know last week because you need to justify -- you need to justify -- your third lie. I understand. And what's that third lie? The need to support a motion of censure in order to become President — legitimately, no doubt — the worst socialist candidate in history. Nor do they question the results obtained by the candidate. Two reasons for this. First of all, we had to take care of social emergencies. And the second, that a democratic regeneration was necessary. Look, to meet social emergencies, the candidate announced that he was going to maintain an budget, that of the People's Party, of what they said, my mother what they said!, that it was antisocial, that it increased precariousness, that it was incompatible with social demands, Mr Leicega said, that it was the worst budgets for Galicia since 1997 — Mr Villares said. But now they're worth it. That's right, PSOE, Podemos and The Tides gave up their principles because re-engineering in Spain had to be prioritized. And of course, for this, we have to find some excuse. And what's the excuse? For it is necessary to blame a government without charge of the episodes of corruption of the past, in order to be able to assert it, or as they have done here today, that the People's Party is the most corrupt party in Europe. The problem, sneezing, is that it's fake. Among other things, because, despite the will of some, Spain is still in Europe. And I'm sure you'll understand me now, because here is a very clear observation of sectarianism. I can understand -- maybe not to share, but I can understand -- that you consider it to be enough a statement of responsibility for profit in a ruling to change the Government; I can understand it. Of course, it is not appropriate to confuse the person responsible on a lucrative basis with the type of reception. The reception implies knowledge of the illicit source of funds — letters, it is not appropriate —. I repeat again, I can understand this. What I do not understand is that, once that decision has been taken on the basis of that legal issue, you, ladies and gentlemen, support that the replacement Government is a party which has been unlawfully funded by law since 1997, a firm judgment; which is investigated for illegal financing in Madrid and Valencia. In Valencia, by the way, where the highest socialist leader at the time investigated was the defender of the motion of censure, and, by the way, from today's Minister of Development in Pectore. In addition, within the framework of these proceedings, the management of the current PSOE president, in front of the Ministry of the Environment, is being investigated. We suppose, yes, to follow the star of the last two PSOE presidents, also charged with corruption. And you said in the past that the Socialist Party has nothing to be ashamed of in the past. Bravo! I also have to remember saying to Mrs. Santos: I think it's okay, but you should also explain why we can't figure out why we can't be involved in the judicial cases that investigate the alleged irregular funding of the Socialist Party in Valencia and the Bloc, its partners in Valencia. Don't you care about that doping, Mrs. Santos? But the last shame, the worst of all, is that you here today dare try to screw Galicia. Why bother them so much that Galicia is not affected by the Gürtel theme? Why do you bother them so much? I don't understand! And they lie linking Gürtel to Galicia. And Mr Bará said that Galicia is at the ranking of autonomous communities as Spain's second most corrupt. Man, you'll have to ask yourself why. Look, I'm not going to talk about the Coruña apartments, the defendant mayor of Ferrol, his defendants in Madrid, Alcalá de Henares, illegal financing, doping in Valencia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u161	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u162	I'm not going to talk either that the only counsellor or former counsellor charged in Galicia is a former counsellor of the BNG. But you are ruling with the Socialist Party of Galicia. I'll give you the list, it's very short. Two General Secretaries charged. A provincial secretary, the Coruña. Two mayors in Lugo. Two mayors in Ourense, one of them already convicted. A former president of the condemned Hydrographic Confederation. A former Director General for Convicted Training and Placement. A former spokesperson for the House of Ourense, the brother-in-law of the President-in-law of Pontevedra, Ms Mari Carmen Silva, is legally accredited to the council chairing the president of FEMP, Mr. Caballero. The rosary of mayors and concelers hasn't changed. Your Honor, that you come to teach lessons in decency, it's at least doubtful. Let me -- and I'll finish --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u163	You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u164	...that ends by paraphrasing that phrase Churchill dedicated to Chamberlain: you have chosen — for neither meeting the social emergencies nor democratic regeneration, lordships — to renounce their principles to avoid corruption, now they have no principles and have in government the most corrupt party in Spain's history.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u166	Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u167	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u168	Thank you very much. First of all, I disagree with the call to order because — please let me speak, Mr Santalices — given that he publicly expressed the spokesperson for Justice for Democracy, Mr Joaquín Bosch — I recommend that you listen to him from time to time — and more judges that, indeed, the judgment of Gürtel, which should read it — I know that it is painful, that they take him very badly and that they have his organization bleeding and compounded — and then assume that they are the most corrupt party in Europe, and that they are condemned for what they have actually been condemned for corruption. [[Murmurs.]] God himself spoke to Judges for Democracy, not this Member.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u169	I don't need that. Please don't go back to a question that isn't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u170	I say I express that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u171	No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I don't have to call her in order again, please. I'll pay attention to the House's lawyers, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u172	Besides, I would like to understand, Mr Santalices, why matters in the State Parliament are not called to order and why there is a bite in this parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u173	Because you're telling me things I have to call it in order. Of course! [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u174	They're things the judges say and they're things they say in other cameras. There's a bite in this parliament. There's a bite in this parliament!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u175	No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's where the... yes, yes, that's where the lawyers are liquidated. We don't liquidate anyone here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u176	You, Mr. President, should not make such statements in the use of your condition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u177	No, no, please don't go back to that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u178	And, above all, when the People's Party, the great defender of the Constitution, of institutions, of legality, is not even able to respect when the President left a purse for not listening to a legally and totally regulated motion, and was being left in ridicule not only his party, but all his voters, those who ask us to respect and do not respect that "M. Rajoy" of the papers of Bárcenas, he did not respect them, making us go through an international shame, an international shame! At least put a little head down and do some self-criticism, and don't accuse others of something they're doomed to. Besides, they didn't answer me from Mr. Crespo, they didn't answer me from Mr. Crespo and that he kept him at the board when he was counsellor, and that he's also known for headlines: "Pablo Crespo, the man from the PP's briefcase crawling into the Gürtel's brain." What part don't you understand about this? Please respect the citizens and the people who have suffered cuts, precariousness and who have lived above — as you say — their possibilities, paying their pensions while you had what you had. Isolated houses? They were drowned inside their party with isolated cases. Drowned is how they are! [[Murmurs.]] Besides, what's left to see. We can't wait to see the Punica, the Lezo and all the arsenal they have. What are they talking about? Everyone knows it's the People's Party, everyone knows it, and Galicia's PP stands with corruption. And of course, he's with the Gürtel. Who was Pablo Crespo? You know many personally Mr. Crespo. What do you mean, no? [[Murmurs.]] Many of those sitting there know Mr. Crespo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u179	Quiet, quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u180	And then I have here a list of his corruption in Galicia: case Champion, director and deputy director of the Igape, former deputy of the Welsh Parliament, convicted; case Pokémon, mayor of Boqueixon, open case; case Aexpa; case Baltar, convicted; case Count Roa. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Count Roa isn't alone with Mrs. Paula Prado, either? It doesn't sound like Mayor Count Roa, since it's all about Mars Noriega and Compostela Open.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u181	Quiet. No dialogue, no dialogue. Quiet, quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u182	Is Count Roa the only one? Do you know who he is or don't you know who he is? [[Murmurs.]] Can we go on, can I go on, or can I put on a bite, and I can't talk about the charges?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u183	No, no, go on, go on. There are no bites here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u184	Yes, there are bites. Yes, there are bites in this parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u185	No, I guarantee you don't. Don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u186	Case Zeta; Operation Orchestra; Rafael Louzán. Are you Mr. Louzan? Ah, it's all filed, that didn't exist, that didn't exist, those things didn't exist. [[Murmurs.]] You guys here talk about a lot of things. It's absolutely...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u187	Finish, please. And about the amendment of the PSOE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u188	I understand, of course, we're going to accept again the amendment of the PSOE, and we've already spoken of it in advance. We bring this initiative here because citizens cannot understand that while others continue to accumulate money in accounts in exotic places of their ranks, Mr. Bárcenas... it is that we can throw ourselves here three days without talking about their "insulated cases".
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u189	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u190	So, therefore, they're going on for a moment, which should instead of hiding the head having self-criticism, humility and thinking of citizenship, in all the damage they've done, and still come here accusing the opposition, not accepting democracy, and of course, most of the absolute dope...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u192	...after cheating and saying for justice: illegal financing of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members, on the promotion and reception by the Government of Greece, in addition to public investment in health technology, of all those acts of mecenado which result in an improvement in the service to the patient
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u194	Proposal not for the law of Mrs. Encarna Amigo. There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Galego Nationalist Block and the En Marea Parliamentary Group. [[(G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, through his spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative amendment.Additional amendment.A new paragraph should be added in the resolution of the proposal: "The Health Council shall carry out, for each mecenate action from which it is subject, a report determining the necessary investment (personal, maintenance...) which will be necessary in the event of accepting the prayer, and a conclusion on the acceptance or rejection of this proposal.")]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Montserrat Prado Cores, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative amendment: Amendment.The text of the resolution of the non-law proposal should be replaced by the following:"The Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to:— Duplicate the budget for research and investment in health technology in the coming budgets for 2019.— Reverting the privatization of high technology (competitive dialogue).— Creating the category of personal investigator within the Staff categories of Sergas staff.— Impusioning in-depth tax reforms to ensure that large profits and large business benefits tax to public buildings with much more intensity than they currently do.— Imjecting a law of mechanate.")]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[G. P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs. Eva Solla Fernández, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative amendment.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution of the non-law proposal should be replaced by the following: "The Galician Parliament urges Galician Union to increase its budget at R & D+i public at least to the European average."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u195	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u196	Good afternoon and thank you very much, President. Current health systems face a major challenge: to maintain and improve the quality of health care in a more empowered society, which is becoming increasingly old, and as a result of more diseases, many of them chronically, leading to higher health costs. In most advanced countries for years there has been a culture of patronage, philanthropy or what is now known as the current version of philanthropy: corporate social responsibility, which refers to the commitment of companies, not only to employees or shareholders, but also to society for different activities. There are examples, known to many, of hungry and prosperous businessmen. To highlight some of those who have marked the way or started actions, both in the neighbouring country and in the last century, to name Portuguese Antonio Champalimaud or Armenian Calouste Gulbenkian, supports two health foundations of the most important in the world. We all know, even in our country — even in small numbers — examples of measles in education, culture or sports. But these approaches did not take place elsewhere in our society, the difference from what — as I said earlier — occurs in most countries around us, where the selfless economic collaboration of people, companies or foundations for health research or the treatment of rare or oncological diseases is on the agenda. Recently, in Galicia, the Italian entrepreneur Don Amancio Ortega decided to donate 17 million to the public health of Galicia for the acquisition of technology, to advance the diagnosis and treatment of cancer. With this agreement signed in October 2015, the Amancio Ortega Foundation committed itself to the renewal of equipment for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cancer in hospitals and health centres for eight years, at a maximum cost of 16,831,942 euros. This called for the immediate installation of digital mammographs and state-of-the-art radiotherapy equipment in sixteen health centers in our community. Subsequently, this same entrepreneur extended this prayer to the rest of autonomous communities, up to a total of 320 million euros. This decision was not exempt from debate and controversy, but I would like to point out that both since the Spanish Society of Radiotherapy Oncology and the Spanish Association against Cancer, numerous heads of medical services and the Spanish Group of Patients against Cancer have agreed to this. Dr. Alfredo Carrato, head of Oncology at Ramón y Cajal Hospital in Madrid, and former president of the Spanish Society of Medical Oncology, declared in April last year at the third Symposium on Multidisciplinary Approach to Cancer — and quoted textually — "The sustainability of health passes through financing and mecenazing". And I wanted to share some of your thoughts from this gallery. Carrat admits that the health system, in general, and oncological care, in particular, is faced with a serious problem: financing. Biological drugs are much more expensive than traditional chemotherapy. Some produce in cell or bacteria crops and these seconds — as it were in some way — in test tubes. Fortunately, these new drugs will significantly improve the quality of life and health of patients, but because they are very expensive they increase the financial threat of the system. The approximate cost of cancer is 5% of the health budget of the administrations. The same Dr. Carrato considers several points to be essential in this regard to continue to provide the most suitable for these patients: the first one, to increase the proportion of health-related GDP; the second one, to promote a mecenado culture such as that which finance many innovations in Anglo-Saxon countries. And he himself puts, for example, the recent team prayer for more than 300 million by Amancio Ortega, commenting that this is an exception in our country. While for every EUR 1,000 of grants in this country 300, in countries such as the United Kingdom, more than 600 euros are being disbursed. And it also warns you that the arrival of biosimilar drugs, in the same way that it was the arrival of generics, can help those prices come down. Following collaborative examples in our community, appoint the Maria José Jove Foundation, which has recently signed a collaborative agreement for a campaign of dissemination and promotion of organ and tissue donation activities in the province of Coruña, the creation of a scholarship for the formation of joint heart disease surgery, the financing of a home of hearts — where housing is given for families of children with heart disease, animal-assisted therapy at the Early Rehabilitation and Care Unit of Teresa Herrera da Coruña Hospital, a Banco de Letite at Santiago de Compostela University Clinic Hospital. He also funded a pharmacogenetic study for ADHD and TOC and the construction of murals in the Pediatric Service of the Infant Mother Hospital of Coruña, a program for the formation of pediatric palliative care, among others. In a different way, the Oncomet group, led by prestigious oncologist Rafael López, presented and developed a micromechanate campaign for the development of the technique known as "liquid biopsy", which facilitates the early diagnosis of oncology disease. On his website, we can see, and I quote textually: "Our goal is to propose to the entire Greek civil society that collaboratively and selflessly finance a project designed by the Translational Medical Oncology Group, with the aim of putting the Greeks at the doors of precision medicine." This group develops its activity at Santiago de Compostela Clinical Hospital and belongs to IDIS, Institute of Health Research. This is a very ambitious project within the field of liquid biopsy, and it says it will have to be able to give rise in the future to the improvement of clinical management of oncotoxic patients. Dr. López himself said in an interview: "What we see is that the countries that investigate the most are those that are most important in the prayers and economic approaches by civil society." By naming another example in our community, because the Ramiro Carregal International Oncology Research Awards, which are already for its seventh edition. I would also like to point out that in 2015, through the technology partner, the Galician Union launched the greatest technological renewal to date, the largest investment of Sergas in technology: EUR 78.5 million through the technology partner in eight years. Public-private collaboration helps to make technological renewal sustainable in hospitals. We consider from the People's Parliamentary Group, as it cannot be otherwise, that all these contributions must be a complement to the public financing of Welsh health. I repeat: a complement to the public financing of Welsh health. As stated above, the People's Parliamentary Group submits the following non-legislative proposal in plenary: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union, in parallel with public investment in health technology, to foster and supplement all those acts of patronage that result in an improvement in the service to the patient." Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u198	You're going to allow me, Mrs. Friend, Mrs. People's Party, who is falling down, with the situation in which Galicia's public health is, the proposals of the People's Party are these characteristics, aren't you? They have public health drowned by the cuts, on a escalation of privatization, and you come with these proposals, which, of course, go in that direction. And, indeed, in other countries, this figure of the patronage, of philanthropy, is regulated by laws regulating this matter. You don't regulate, and then you want to get us that way, and you've got these figures for the polishing of Ortega Amancios and other issues. You who are called technological renewal are pure and hard privatization, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. They privatized the technological services through that figure, indeed, of a technological partner, so that the same companies that manufacture the technological devices control the equipment that hospitals must acquire, make the price and decide where they are located, how many are bought and even how many diagnostic tests must be carried out. This recruitment model has already actually led to this investment of EUR 88 million in the purchase of new magnetic resonances of TACs. And in many cases because it would even be enough to change software, if it wasn't because you have to be guided by what these companies decide which devices to replace and which ones to buy. We also attended this mechanization of equipment, TACs and magnetic resonance imaging for the CHUS Cardiology Service, here in Santiago, which, via mecenate, decided to install in the Cardiology Service, meaning the lack of equity in access to diagnostic tests and in the Santiago Health Area, where there are waiting lists for the set of several thousand areas, and when in the Cardiology Service there are only fewer than a hundred people waiting for. But that's the medicate that's being implemented by the People's Party. They privatized health research through biomedical institutes, research in hospitals... well, we could continue here for several hours. Referring to his exhibitive part — and since he refers to liquid biopsy — he forgot to do the other part: that they had to use micromechanicals because, if not, they couldn't continue with the research, not as a starting point, not because it seemed magnificent to them that option of micromechanicals, but because they had to plant that research which was very successful. And oncologists criticize the lack of support for liquid biopsy and ask for legislative changes that favor their research. They say: regrettable, it gives very little value to health research to public administration, low levels of investment and the work instability of new researchers. That's what oncologists say about the public service's bet on research. And if Amancio Ortega had paid as a doctor, he would have to pay 300 million a year in taxes, because he pays an average of 1,100 million euros a year only in dividends. If I paid as a doctor, I'd have to pay 320 million euros, which I wouldn't have to make medicate. [[Applause]] And with that money, the administration could decide what to buy and how to invest in public health. I mean, a little disincentive agrees with that liberal and extreme ideology of the People's Party. That's why the BNG is presenting a amendment to this initiative that the People's Party is presenting here today. And it's an amendment that says: Duplicate the budget for research and investment in health technology in the next budgets for 2019. Duplicate the investment in R+D+i, that is, public investment, so you don't have to be resorting to that private R+D which, right under those mechanized umbrellas, if you want to get us in the round. Reverting the privatization of high technology, that competitive dialogue that you called "tech revolution" and that was a privatization and leaving private hands the decision of high technology in public health. Then let's reverse that decision. Create the researcher staff category within the Sergas staff status category. Do you remember that promise? I suppose the President of the House will remember, because he did it to the researchers, of his stabilization within the public health system. And the creation of the research staff inside Sergas, which then if I've seen you remember, and let them hang them. We continue to demand the creation of that figure within Sergas. And drive in-depth tax reforms so that big fortunes and big business profits pay more intensively in public than they do at present, or a gradual tax system that pays more than they have and pays according to what they have. And as soon as they don't come to us from around you, you and mecenasants, and these issues so that they look like great benefactors. When what they do is they pay 1% when the rest of the mortals, and above all the working class, because they pay 12 to 17 or 20%, and when they have the tax they have. This would be what we should do. And then push a mechanized law. Why don't you bring here a law from the mechanics, so we know white about black really how it's regulated, how it's brought in and that things are clear? When you do all this, you will have the support of the Galician Nationalist Block. In the meantime, wash your face. We will not oppose the figure of the sorcerer, but regulated as God commands, with light and tachographs and with clarity. In the meantime, because these beautiful, of course, of the BNG...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u199	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u200	...they won't count on your support. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u202	Thank you, President. Any investment that leads to the improvement of the public health system is welcome. It seems like a rational position, and that's the position we have from the Socialist Party. That is in the public health system or in another public system. Because, perhaps, it is very easy to observe lately — the truth is that reality is needed — some contributions and even some medicates that were in particular for the benefit of some political party. And that's not what we should support. And let me just -- about some interventions that were seen here today -- remember a Nobel Prize in Medicine, Ramon and Cajal: the worst thing is not to go wrong, the worst thing is to try to justify it. [[Applause]] This initiative also has some points for us that it would be important to clarify or that we think we might be able to go deep on them. Five questions basically — quickly —: First, he speaks of the initiative to encourage the messenate. How, advertising campaigns, information actions, tax increases, ambitious tax improvements? Formulas would exist and it would be interesting to be able to debate them, a law of the sorcerer... there would be formulas. Because only to promote remains in a statement of intent, in an initiative of these flowers power. This reminds me of when I was little and they reminded me every day: wash your hands, go to bed early, brush your teeth... that they start taking initiatives a little like those of the Telerin family, that they recommend to us things that are very, very nice, we all agree, but they don't. And this is a parliament, and you know there are some things that need to be discussed a little more deeply sometimes. Secondly, this of the messenate — which is good — must be a circumstantial, non-structural element. Why would we say that? Because if we end up depending on the messenate, the mescenate ends up being guardianship, even beneficence. And why are we holding this argument? Because from the budgets from 2016 to 2017 the actual investments of the Health Council fall more than five percent, and from 2017 to 2018 they fall into Sergas more than five percent. If we start to withdraw public investment, the mecenado becomes guardian. And we want a system that supports itself; that all operations are welcome, but that supports itself. Third question, are all the medicates okay? Because there is a case, that this group brought to the Health Commission of this parliament, where there was a council that offered to donate a radio apparatus to the health center of its own municipality, it gave it all. On the same level, no, because it wasn't in quantity, but in the same format that some apparatus was donated — that some cases have been cited and that are very well — to the Greek health system. The PP refused. Are there medicates who like more than others? Because we don't share that. All the prayers should be well-viewed, because it was a device. The argument at that time: of course, we have to evaluate the cost of maintaining and personally accepting this prayer. Well, we agree. So the fourth point that happens to us — so we present an amendment — is that Sergas prepares a report every time there is an offer and at least offers some information about the cost of accepting the donations, in personnel and in maintenance, that he has. Because when we accept an offering we are entailing a subsequent expense and, therefore, it would be reasonable for Sergas not to accept a few prayers yes and no, or the very large ones that bring a lot of subsequent expenditure yes and the very small ones that do not carry so much no. Unless some prayers are very interesting because the subsequent expense will go to someone who's very interesting. But there we are in the part of the mescanate that goes well with some, which, in the end, if they end up calling themselves "bitted." And I'm not saying it because there's been a recent case, but no. I won't be called to my attention. And finally, the important thing and the last question about it is to have a model of its own that can solve this question. We defend one; we know that we cannot aspire to be defended by everyone, but we defend one. You see, it's something as revolutionary as an ambitious, progressive, fair, redistributive tax system that defends social cohesion, and above all a tax system that does it honestly, because it's very important to defend an honest tax system. Honesty means the system is in the common benefit. There is nothing better than the common good, far from the excessively individualistic interpretations of the economy. There's nothing better than redundancy in the common good. And so we defend that kind of model. Remember, there are other ideological models that argue that the common good is not so relevant, and that's why we need this messenate, that we support and we feel good that it exists, but that we don't depend on it. Because, in the end, if we don't, we end up with presidents who assume more of the medicates than public investment. And that, the truth is, we don't share it. And lastly — and recalling presidents who defended the private medicate more than public investment, and without wanting to go too far into the subject — the fact is that today I was reminded by that former president, Mr Aznar, when he said, we are going to sweep the street of small criminals. Well, sometimes they were bigger than the little ones, and they didn't have the need to go out the street, sometimes by looking at the house they needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u203	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u204	Thank you, President. As an introduction, I would humbly recommend that Members of the People's Party review their references. Before they mentioned Chamberlain, and I'd like them to remember their relationship with Nazism and frankness. And now they cite Gulbenkian, born in the 19th century, as a model of philanthropy. And I believe that the Portuguese brothers and sisters are no longer in the dictatorship of Salazar and need not be the misery of having to depend on the prayers of these supposed philanthropists. That we seem to rewrite the story. [[Applause]] But, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I am not in favour of this model; you know that, my group is not. However, I am surprised that, if you are in favour of this charity, of philanthropy — as you have called it — that in addition to the 21st century it is good for you to continue to call this element philanthropy — you could propose a regulation here. They could even bring a bill -- as you've already moved them here -- to regulate this model of donation or donations, which we understand is a public-private collaboration. I am very pleased that the spokeswoman of the People's Party introduced into her debate a comparison with public-private collaboration. I don't know if it was a lapsus lingual or that really highlighted what it is, which is a contract with a company, which in this case yields not in exchange for anything, but that in the case of Amancio Ortega — as we have already denounced in this parliament in the past legislation — we were talking about 17 million euros. That if we were talking about an IFP, a public-private collaboration, it would be necessary to have a preliminary report from the Ministry of Business. But as we put it through a contract of the great philanthropist Amancio Ortega because it turns out that you don't need that report. And he's finalist, because it could be that this gentleman so great and so nice, who earns so many millions of euros, it hurts us because public health really is very poor. And then we could invest them in those primary care doctors and doctors, in those pediatricians, in those needs that we just reported, and that I defended in the previous motion, and the comrades of the other opposition groups continuously defend. But, no, it turns out that, by chance, he is simply a finalist in investing in private technology, which, in addition to — as we have said on many occasions — is usually the part that is publicly funded by Feder funds. And it's quite a substantive business for many tech companies, which in our country are doing not with a renewal and a fabulous contract that you presented here, but one of the biggest privatizations we saw in the previous legislation -- and this time we've assumed more -- which was precisely that of high technology in the Galician Health Service. So, given these things, it's interesting that in this area you don't have a plan, a plan to increase R & D+i, which is what we propose to you, and continually reject the amendments of the opposition to budgets, which go precisely in that direction. For us, Your Honor, as you will understand, the problem is not Amancio Ortega, the problem is tax evasion, the problem is tax vacations, and the problem is how much the income of the capital and the incomes of the work in this country are taxed. And the problem is how services and public health are financed in particular. And, of course, what we're talking about here is an underfunding, a problem related to self-financing and, of course, an inadequate way to manage public health, which depends on the donors of the billionaires and not on the public era, at the expense of taxes, in part, on those multimillionaires. The reality is that he has already defined the report of the Bioethics Committee the problems of conflicts of interest. And I bring back the report from the Bioethics Committee, but as I don't have too much time to explain, because this is quite dense and broad, because I would also like you to think a little bit about how public health is in our country and how companies impact and proliferate within the public system. And just a few days, a week and a half ago, a rather embarrassing situation, in our understanding, was precisely that great announcement made by Mr. Feijóo, which gave fabulous installations in the City of Culture to multinational Indra -- by the way, related to the case of corruption Lezo; in addition my political organization is popular accusation in that case, in which the People's Party is also immigrated -- because precisely, it was given a public space, I don't know with which authority, when, on the one hand, they cut public health and culture is cut by 61% since 2009. It's a shame, an absolute shame. We don't have public health, we don't have culture, but you give away and leave more fields for the business of private companies. We are not going to interfere with Mr. Amancio Ortega's prayer, but what we ask is a replacement on this initiative so that what the People's Party does is invest in the public R & D, because what's going on here is a shame. And, frankly, if you believe in that model of charity, which is frankly shameful in the middle of the 21st century, you bring to this chamber a proposal for regulation. I don't agree with that model, it's early enough, but we could certainly talk about something and not about the donations made by the philanthropists in the 19th century. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In today's society, there is no doubt that public-private collaboration helps to make technological renewal sustainable in hospitals — that is unquestionable — as well as the challenge facing health systems to maintain and improve the quality of health care. On my way, I set an example of two people who created two health foundations that are still very important in Europe. We want a quality public health, where the approaches that are made through mecenado are a complement, a complement to investment in technology; an investment greater than ever before, and so I emphasized it in my first intervention. And we're going to talk about reality. And the reality is that cancer is one of the main causes of morbidity and mortality around the world. In 2012 there were 14 million new cancer cases, and this is expected to increase by 70 percent in the next 20 years. This data is data from the International Cancer Research Agency. In Spain, 250,000 new cancer cases are diagnosed every year, and there are more than one and a half million diagnosed patients. This is the reality. I appeal to the common sense, not to forget what is the main function of our health, which is to heal and improve as many patients as possible, and that we have more chances of achieving this through prayers, through collaboration by means of patronage. But, look, we, of course, coincided with the voices of scientists and presidents of patient associations, which I will soon tell them. I repeat again: public-private collaboration helps to make technological renewal sustainable in hospitals. You don't try to confuse the debate. It's not discussed here if we want more public investment in health technology and research. That has already been discussed in the budgets, and you have voted against it. By the way, by introducing amendments that reduced consignments into health technology. That has already been voted, we know your position. So what you vote for now is something else. It's whether you're in favour of facilitating mescination with approaches by private entities to public health or whether they're going to put their ideological prejudices, as they usually do, above the possibilities of improving the services of citizenship. You will decide, and the vote is in your hand. [[Murmurs.]] We cannot, of course, accept amendments in any way to replace both the BNG and the tides. And as far as the Socialist Party in Galicia is concerned, tell him that there are laws. Law 5/2011 of 30 September 2011 of the heritage of Galicia, in Article 56, "acquisitions for free", as well as Royal Decree 1373/2009 of 22 August 2009 of the Regulation of the Law on Heritage and Public Administrations, in its Article 37, "Competition and formalization", provides for the legal aspects of the prayers, which, of course, fulfils the Council of Galicia in respect of the donations. And how I have a little time left...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u208	...I'm just going to read them what Begoña Barragán, president of the Spanish Cancer Patients Group, says: "There must be mecenes. In Spain we've got a point on everything. Ortega could have chosen not to make this donation." There's a lot more, but for lack of time it doesn't give me time to say. But also Alfredo Carrato — I see that I have a few seconds left —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u209	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u210	... says that "The sustainability of health goes through finance and mechanization."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u212	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u213	Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Luis Villares Naveira and Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the reform of the voting system of the General Council of the Judiciary and the guarantee of independence of the judiciary
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u214	This motion for a non-law tabled two amendments: the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. [[G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of her colleague Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, through her spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution of the non-law proposal should be replaced by the following:"The Greek Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to request from the Government of the State, in connection with the General Council of the Judiciary Power, at:1. Derogate Law 4/2013 of 28 June, amending the Organic Law of the Judiciary.2. To scrupulously comply with Article 561 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary as far as its own amendment."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado del Río, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution of the proposal should be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to address the Government of Spain for:1. Change the system of election of juridical vowels to be chosen by judges and judges.2. Ensure that elections and appointments effectively ensure gender equality and the presence of minorities.3. Submit the CXPX report to the draft law on changes in the Organic Law of the Judiciary as set out in 561. To reform the conditions of professional transit between justice and politics, the so-called ‘justice-politics’, with particular attention to the conditions of return, in order to strengthen the perception of judicial independence without prejudice to the right to hold public office.”]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u215	To put the question, Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u216	Good afternoon, ladies. All the newspapers started today with news that probably has two parts: one opinable and one less opinable. The most opinable part was signed by her own protagonist, Mariano Rajoy, who said she was going, who was going for the sake of Spain, who was the best she could do for Spain. We say it's opinable because in some's opinion, in the opinion of many, it wasn't that it was him, but that it was many of us who threw him out. We put it out a lot of people who were fed up with corruption, who were fed up with theft, cuts, recentralization, denial of diversity, bite and freedom of expression. But it doesn't stop being an opinion, maybe for others it's just their decision, their will, on a voluntary basis, to leave. If we all agree, regardless of the opinions on that part of the news, it's a good decision that goes away, and it's a shame I haven't decided before. That said, this is the first part of the opinable news. There is another part of the news that is less opinable, which is all the equipment that Mr. President accompanied, the former president — we still have that practice in our head — accompanied him all the way, accompanied him in the microphones, accompanied him in the chairs, accompanied him on the table, all the headquarters of the People's Party in Genoa funded with black money, illegally funded. That is something which was declared by judgment, judgment of the Gürtel case, stated and made it clear that, among other things, this headquarters was financed by money in B. This is important to declare it. And it was also said here about the technical-legal nuances of the subject, if it was the People's Party simply a profit-oriented participant, as if it was little thing to be profit-making participate nothing more and nothing less than an institutionalized system of corruption, which took advantage of the institutional position of members of the People's Party to systematically loot the public for the sake of the particular interest. If the People's Party and its members and their leadership seem little to them, that is already the standard of everyone's standards; to us and the majority of society and the political majority seemed enough to achieve political change. We say all this because there is a sentence, therefore, that conditions the political discourse and that it has to do with justice in this case too. With justice we wanted to point out two introductory notes also from the presentation of this non-legislative proposal: The first of them, which also has to do with what you have, will not say the People's Party as a whole, but if they are members of their party for justice, when they go to hammers with the hard disks of the Bavarian computers, which would probably have allowed them to advance further in research and achieve greater and better condemnations of corruption and the plundering of the public in this country, and which could not be achieved precisely by those obstructive attitudes of justice that they have made members of the People's Party. And secondly, for a second consideration that's still pending, but from which we've had information in the last year, as you know from the media, it's the recordings to Ignacio González and Eduardo Zaplana, which show the maneuvers of the People's Party to remove and set up judges and prosecutors. These are some of the well-known news almost a year ago. There are numerous transcripts, which produce, of course, real political noise and beyond the politician. We can simply reproduce a small extract of them, without prejudice that later in the replica we can go further if some of the members of the political groups present wish. Eduardo Zaplana said: "The problem is in education, Nacho. It's just that there's no one here." Ignacio González said: "Let's see, Eduardo, we have the government, the Ministry of Justice, I don't know what and so, and listen, we have a judge who's provisional... you turn it on. I tell you, come here, what is the square that touches you? Lieutenant. Well, to fuck with the Lieutenant, and here comes the headline, and I'll take them with the headline, asshole." End of date. I'm saying the quote, because of course, I'm simply reproducing facts that are notorious and known. We're talking about very serious facts, some of these pre-trials, but they're known all over the world. And the question is once again whether a criminal sentence is needed to make political decisions that improve the quality of our democracy. The answer, at least from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, is not. And it is that measures have been taken, in some cases lukewarm, in some cases insufficient, in some cases that were appropriate but that have not been implemented, and therefore it is necessary to continue to sink into this. Operation Lezo, to which I have just mentioned through these listenings, demonstrates, at least in the known data, that surely it is not necessary to wait for a criminal sentence, as happened in the case of Gürtel, to take measures that improve the quality of our democracy. In this case, we refer to Article 122 of the Spanish Constitution and what derives from it: the constitutional composition of the General Council of the Judiciary. Article 122, third subparagraph, points out that of the 20 members of the General Council of the Judiciary, twelve shall be elected from between judges and magistrates of all professional categories. There are several possible options for choosing these twelve magistrates or magistrates to compose the General Council of the Judiciary, all of which are constitutionally valid. But not all of them are as desirable from a social and political point of view, depending on the historical moment when the political decisions on regulation, legislation or legislative amendment are addressed. And we're talking about a historic moment, which is not a moment of any particular citizen distrust of political parties and their maneuvers to attempt to condition the administration of justice to the extent that this is an effective administration in the fight against corruption. And this is precisely why in this context it is necessary to strengthen measures, not only towards public opinion, but also towards the composition of the General Council of the Judiciary itself, which increase the guarantee of impartiality, the guarantee of independence with regard to political power. So it's not only a reinforcement of the image of independence, it's an effective reinforcement within the constitutionally valid systems of deepening this. I just want to remember that the functions of the General Council of the Judiciary are, among other things, disciplinary. They exercise disciplinary power over judges and judges in the exercise of their functions; they are governmental, of everything they have to do with the administrative sphere and also with the judges and judges; and in addition to nothing despicable scope of function of appointment of presidents of high courts and integration of courts into the peak of the judicial career. This might seem like a simple failure of En Marea from a break-in area with regard to the previous system. But it is much more than this, it is something that is preached by active and passive in Europe, where our own legal system is inserted into the system of guarantee of democracy. The Spanish State, not in vain, is a founding member of the Group of States against Corruption, the Greek, of the Council of Europe, which made a number of recommendations in its 2014 report, which was followed by the follow-up report in 2017, published in 2018, where a number of recommendations are taken into account by the Spanish State to increase the guarantee of independence in the appointment of members of the General Council of the Judiciary Power. It is said in one of his conclusions that Greek reiterates its view that political authorities will not be involved at any time in the process of selecting judicial change as regards the election of the General Council of the Judiciary. Well, the Spanish constitutional system establishes an option of parliamentary appointment or of strictly judicial appointment of a part of the General Council of the Judiciary, which is specifically the one referring to those members who come from the judicial career. We have proposed at this moment that it be chosen from between judges and judges, precisely as a guarantee of greater independence, in coherence also with what the Greek Group sets up at European level. This implies not the non-interference of political power in the change of government organs, but within the constitutional framework, in Article 122, the lowest possible interference within the constitutionally valid options in the policies of the appointment of government organs. This is the main measure, but there are another series of measures that will also lead to improving the democratic quality by various vectors of the composition of the General Council of the Judiciary. I refer briefly to them: First of all, the need to ensure gender equality between women and men at the time of the composition of the General Council of the Judiciary. Secondly, to ensure the presence of minorities in the Council. A council which has been appointed within these twelve members within the judicial career should follow a proportional system, not simply a pure majority, as is the case in the governmental chambers in the higher courts of justice, which ensures the presence of judicial minorities within the organs of government. Thirdly, the Council's assurance as a collegiate body, not of a unipersonal or presidential character. The difference in recent years with the latest reform of strengthening the President's powers to the detriment of areas which should be deliberated by all its members, both in full and in committee. The recovery of competences, which strengthen the autonomy of the organ itself in the face of the attributes of other constitutional bodies. And finally, the need — we have also gathered — to pass the report of the General Council of the Judiciary itself on the amendment of organic law, as provided for in Article 561 and as it has not been done so far. These are measures that we understand from En Marea that contribute to increasing the democratic quality of our institutions, which contribute to strengthening judicial independence and which also contribute to strengthening the confidence of citizens in a justice that is changing everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. Parliamentary groups intervene. Mrs Vilán Lorenzo spoke by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u218	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Actually, this is a state-only competition, we know it. And judicial power is characterized in Spain as being a unique power, the difference of other powers. But that doesn't mean you can't bring to a chamber of autonomous parliamentary representation any state matter to ask the Government for certain issues. And, in fact, all groups have done it, and probably on that bench now they're going to do it much more deeply. So that Mrs. Paula Prado will be calmer and she will smile equally but without trying to laugh at the ones we've come up here and intervene. [[Applause]] In any case, we know that of the petitions made in this proposal not by law of En Marea they were all dealt with with by the President of the Government, by President Pedro Sánchez, who met with the judicial associations a long time ago and moved their willingness to talk about all these matters, and in fact, they spoke at that time. By the way, the difference between what the former minister of Justice did and even the own adviser of Justice, who rarely met with them, for hardly saying anything. Certainly, we need to talk about this 2013 reform which modified the General Council of the Judiciary and which had only one end, which was to control that body that controls the judiciary's control body. There was no other end. She made up as always, but that was the end. The Constitution establishes... maybe there was another end, which was cover-up, perhaps — I remember now — to cover up that president who spent thousands of public euros on private trips to hot spots. Perhaps that was also the idea of the reform of the president of the General Council of Judiciary, former president. Maybe that's why, too. The 1978 Constitution established a council with twenty-one members, and twelve of them are elected between judges and magistrates, and expressly states the Constitution that under the terms of the organic law itself. There it is, that is the debate we bring today. Because the other four are elected directly by Congress and the Senate, and there is one, who is the president of the Supreme Court, who is obviously not elected by anyone except by the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. They're all jurists, but the discussion is in those sweets. It was a discussion from the moment he started operating the Organic Law of the Judiciary on who he chooses those people who have to control those sweet people who have to control the judiciary, whether the chambers democratically elected, Congress and the Senate, or whether the judges themselves, or whether there is a mixed system. Well, that's what we think this is about. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Party we believe that it is not good for the control of judges and judges to self-do so themselves, we believe that it must be Congress and Senate who establish that control and therefore the election must be parliamentary, and so we defend it. We believe that this award does not cease to grant independence to the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. The fact is that the 2013 reform was talking about the possibility of maximum participation, without the need for gain, and it wasn't true, with a minimum number of losses; it's not true. He was talking about it also being done because extensions couldn't block the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, and that's why extensions were banned, and it wasn't true. We'd like someone to explain why the new appointments were blocked. He even spoke of something so absurd that it was good for him to have a close proximity to the reality that the members of the General Council of the Judiciary would rule. In fact, I will literally read or say to the explanatory statement of this law of the year 2013: "It intends to contribute to good administration and economic efficiency, like everything else, and at the same time perhaps to allow access to the Council to people from within and outside the judicial career who have so far not shown interest in serving as vocals, because this would have forced them to interrupt their professional activity." Justifying that they did not belong to that closed standing commission of control by the President of the General Council of the Judiciary and therefore control by the government itself. As if the judges and the magistrates, the judges and the magistrates lived in a glass furnace and they didn't know what's going on out there, as if the Members and Members we're here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u219	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u220	...it's going to end—we have to dedicate ourselves or we don't have to devote ourselves exclusively to our parliamentary work, because if we don't lose our connection to reality. The absurdity of justification. The truth is it's stopped being a body of decisions collected to be an organ in which your president decided, and we know it's easier to control one than to control one twenty-one. That was the end of the reform. Anyway, we propose a replacement amendment. We believe that what we need to do is to repeal this reform of organic law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u221	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u222	...—Filled, President—which was done in 2013, June 28th, and, of course, scrupulously comply with Article 561 of the organic law itself. And at any rate, we ask En Marea to vote on points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u223	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Villares, the best way to respect justice is to wait for events to be judged and not to prejudge things, as some are used to doing habitually in this chamber. And also, Mr. Villares, the judgment of Gürtell made clear the judicial independence of the Government that was at that time ruling Spain. I believe it is the most obvious proof that there is indeed judicial independence in this country. But we want more judicial independence, and today you bring here to the House a proposal for more judicial independence. And we believe that justice can work better, indeed. But, look, his proposal is not very disruptive either, because this is what was already in 1978. As the socialist companion just explained to her, who changed the consensus of the 78 was the Socialist Party. So, I welcome you to the 78th Regime, even though there are your comrades last week who said that what they want is to blow up the 78th Regime. And, besides, now, you are preferred allies of this new government in Madrid, which gave unconditional support to Mr Sánchez of the five Members of En Marea, who had the same weight and, in addition, were decisive in that vote as much as the five of the PNV, well, for they were dispatched with just thanks from Mr Sánchez. Actually, Mr. Villares, I hope you're very successful in this proposal that we are sending to Madrid today and to see what happens to your favorite allies. Let me worry about your intention, because I don't know what you'll think of this proposal as part of your group that wants to end with the consensus of 78. I understand the Socialist Party, because it broke the 78 consensus and is now ruling thanks to those who want to continue to blow up the 78 consensus. And, Mrs. Vilán, the 2013 reform was not made to cover any trip of Mr. Divas, because I remind you that Mr. Divas was appointed by Socialist President Rodríguez Zapatero. Don't tell half-truths, tell them all. Look, on November 3, the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress of Deputies elected ninety-seven proposals to the subcommittee working on the Covenant for Justice, to improve it. And within these ninety-seven proposals were those that referred to the strengthening of judicial independence; we proposed the change of the Council's vowels, limiting the postponement to judges and prosecutors and depoliticizing the higher courts of justice. But we also proposed ending the judicial/political turning doors and reforming the conditions of professional transit between politics and justice, providing the Prosecutor's Office with a new organic status and reforming the access regime of lawyers and prosecutors, and many more that you have at your disposal on the Congress website. And what did the rest of the groups do? Well, we can leave the subcommission, because it said they were only dealing with aesthetic proposals. Mr. Villares, can you tell us that what you bring here today is an aesthetic proposal? These proposals were within these ninety-seven proposals. The PSOE left the subcommittee the day before the hundred and thirty proposals agreed with them, after a year of work, because it said it had not reached a minimum agreement. I suppose because of these proposals that you're against today and so on. Well, today, after last week's events, we know the real reasons for this abandonment, as well as the abandonment of the educational pact and others, which were to wear out the Government of the People's Party. Look, we're still thinking it's fundamental to guarantee judicial independence, and that's why we're presenting an amendment with two very clear questions. The first is to change the system of election of judiciary vowels to be elected by judges or judges. We agree with your proposal, Mr. Villares. But the Greek recommendation also goes to our second proposal, it is also Greek's recommendation to reformulate the conditions of professional transit between justice and politics in order to avoid political/justice turning doors, with particular attention to the conditions of return, in order to strengthen the perception of judicial independence without prejudice to the right to hold public office. Mr. Villares, we believe politicians should not exercise judges, but judges who were politicians when they returned to justice should not exercise politicians either. And the People's Party doesn't say it, the judges themselves say it. All the associations of judges ask to limit the turning doors of politics. According to all associations, the limits are necessary to save the appearance of fairness of the judges, demanded by the courts. Not only that they're fair, they look like it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u225	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u226	How do you like this, Mr. Villares? We want to ensure that, in addition to ensuring election and appointment, effectively ensuring gender equality in those elections, but we also want to ensure that the rotational doors of justice-political/political-justice do not produce defence or cause a lack of independence in the judges who come to politics but then return to their posts of judges. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u227	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado del Río. You have the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Group, Mr. Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u228	Thank you. The truth is, with all that is falling, we were expecting a more modest, more humble and more restrictive statement from the Popular Group, the People's Party, but they came here sucking down, and, in addition, with this strategy that so well characterizes them to spread ink of silence, which in this case is better round-the-shelf ink — which we have seen here. By the way... No, in case you didn't. [[Laughter]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I don't fucking say it today. With regard to the proposal of the General Council for Judiciary, the truth is that it responds, as it has been said, to a reform of the year 2013, captained — which has not been said — by Mr. Ruiz Gallardón — today, because it is being investigated by the Lezo case, of which there have been substantial telephone conversations here — a reform that is absolutely reactionary and regressive, along with many others that led Mr. Garzón, in addition to abortion, such as that of the Criminal Correction Act, the amendments to the Criminal Code and also the judicial fees, which have been imposed all these reforms with the absolutive majority of the People's Party and with the opposition not only from the political forces of Parliament — of all the other political forces — but also from the judicial associations, and which had as a fundamental objective the choice of a docile judicial docile, favourable and controlled by the Government, in addition, of a system of presidentialism, as Mr. We have seen, moreover, throughout these times, as this suspicion has been confirmed, because we have attended an endless series of maneuvers by Mr Lesmes and the General Council of the Judiciary to set traps and also to delay the investigation of causes of corruption. The last one we saw was the same publication of the judgment after the approval of the State budgets; it was already the culmination. It is true that the report of the Greek 2018 is powerful in the denunciation of the democratic deficit, as we have already noted, and of the lack of independence, both of the judiciary and of the Prosecutor's Office, and of its subordination to political power, in this case of the People's Party. It sets out a number of proposals regarding the election system, also the exclusive dedication, the appointment of government bodies, the lack of objective criteria in the evaluation for the appointment of senior judicial positions, the non-guarantee of independence, impartiality and transparency, and a system of absolutely discretionary designation of magistrates and magistrates of the Supreme Court, the National Court, the presidencies of the hearings, etc. So the BNG is going to give support with some nuance — we are asking for a separate vote on point 1 — because it seems to us that this issue is really very complex. The system of selection and appointment of the General Council of the Judiciary is not a guarantee of independence and good functioning, as drafted in the proposal being made in Marea. We advocate the need for guarantees of democratic control and transparency and, in addition, to put in place control mechanisms and also balance against corporateism and conservatism that also characterizes this sector of the judiciary. So it doesn't seem to us that the fact that there's a choice on the part of judges and judges is precisely a guarantee that you're going to go to a system other than what we have now. And on the other hand, we also want to point out, even though this does not fall within the scope of the vote, that, in view of that statement made by the PSOE spokesperson, Patricia Vilan, who is a single power, we defend another model. Logically, we defend the decentralization and the Gallagization of the Administration of Justice, we advocate that Galicia has full jurisdiction in judicial matters, we defend decentralization, we defend the creation of autonomous councils of the judiciary, in any case a state conference of the judiciary, and of course that subject pending to address the effective Gallagization of the Administration of Justice as well as the use of the language, which is an absolutely alarming question, the very low rates of use of the Greek language in the field of the Administration of Justice. So our support for the proposal with this tone and that request for a separate vote on the first point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u229	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor, for the replica shift, Mr. Villares Naveira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u230	Let's go. Positioning on the amendments. First of all, starting with the People's Party and beginning with its intervention, we continue to insist on the need to differentiate the scope of the criminal responsibility of political responsibility. The criminal responsibility is what the judges and judges say when they put the sentences, and there, when it's sentencing, it's theirs to disqualification for public office and in some cases to jail. That's why the need to differentiate the criminal responsibility of political responsibility, because if they don't, they all come together and they catch up, as it's happening all week after the Gürtel judgment. It's just a management recommendation in the future of its own issues, but each party will know how to resolve its own, right? As for the amendment proposed by the People's Replacement Party, there's a trap, there's a trap, and it's just that, with the trap of the amendment, what we're trying to do is not talk about the abolition of the current presidential system, which has established the 2013 reform of the General Council of the Judiciary, because if we completely omit it, it disappears completely, as well as the system of dedication of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, and we cannot admit it. With regard to another aspect that you intend to introduce, we agree. So it's a pity they didn't make it cumulative. We agree. Let's see if we agree that we have to remember here who was the party that introduced the reform into the Organic Law of the Judiciary, specifically on 19/2003, of course, to recognise the special services to those magistrates who were in special services in the political field, so that then, when they recovered the judicial career, they would keep the whole ladder as if they were working. Do you know who did that in the year 2003, mostly absolute? The People's Party. So, of course, what do you want back to the previous situation? There's no problem for us, they've already got the public commitment here. So it's a pity they made a proposal to amend that the only thing they're looking for is to strengthen the presidential system, that we refuse, and that's why our initiative too. But bear in mind, if you make a proposal again here that brings only that, we'll support it, I'll miss it more! As for the nuance that BNG made in relation to the guarantee of plurality, in our second point we have also referred to that subject, precisely because we realize the situation you refer to in the government halls, where the pure majority system often leaves minorities out of a representation, which would be necessary to maintain. Thirdly, with regard to some of the claims made by the Socialist Party, by Mrs Vilán, yes, the current system drinks precisely from the 1985 reform; that is, in constitutional space between 1978 and 1985 there was a different system. It was the Bandres position that changed it. So even the Socialist Party has lived with a very strong choice, so that, recognizing, as we have done before, both systems are constitutionally valid, in our view, at this historic moment — the reasons we have explained before — it would be convenient, for reasons of both social and political citizenship's confidence in judicial power, to strengthen it through this system. I am finished with another question which has already been pointed out by all of you in relation to the Greek group and, even if it remained latent, that this is part — not only of En Marea's claims — of the unanimous claims of all the judicial and fiscal associations, which were those that motivated the strike on May 22, which had a great follow-up by the judiciary and in the area of taxation, but of what we had no data, because the previous Minister of Justice gave orders that they did not attend so as not to know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u231	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u232	...which was really tracking; a bite more than following a fundamental right to strike, which has been denied to us by a government that is no longer such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u233	Thank you very much. We move on to the next initiative, which is a cumulative debate on two non-legislative proposals. Proposal number 30384 and point 31093 are accumulated, points 4.4 and 4.8 of the agenda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the central government in connection with the proposal for the unification of aid programmes for unemployed persons, as well as the compatibility between unemployment benefits and social income G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the benefits of a nature of assistance and unemployment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u234	Two amendments were tabled to these non-legislative proposals, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u235	To formulate the non-law proposal and the defence of its amendments, Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez has the floor. Please ask for some silence because there is widespread murmuring.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u236	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The unemployment data we know yesterday, in spite of this unaccompanied euphoria of the Government of Galicia, which they show, what they leave us to the Socialist Group is a fundamental concern, because what we see is to consolidate an anemic labour market, which is governed by seasonality, precariousness and temporality. In Galicia, more than 96,000 contracts have been signed according to the data we know; 90% have been temporary. We've been complaining in recent years that what's going on is not job creation, is that the job that's been fragmented. And I'm going to give you one finding: eleven contracts for each job created, seventeen contracts for every unemployed person who comes out of the unemployment lists. In addition, there are still about 70,000 jobs in Galicia, 70,000 social security contributors in 2007. I don't know if the voicer or voicer of the People's Party will explain to us this mystery, already almost comparable to that of the Holy Trinity, which we are unable to resolve. In addition, most of the unemployed continue to be women — more than 57.5% — and unemployment decreases in women, both internationally and in relation to the previous month, because curiously — and I say curiously — the sectors where there are most men — are said to be industry or construction — are those where the decline in unemployment is most accused. As for unemployment benefits, only 52.82 % of unemployed persons with work experience are receiving unemployment benefits in April; that is, 78,500 unemployed people who already lack unemployment coverage in Galicia. What this initiative aims to do is to shield those aid that, up until now and from the beginning of the crisis, have come to perceive the most vulnerable unemployed and unemployed, those who, taking advantage of that reformulation that there must be such aid, the former Government, the Government of the People's Party, wanted to take advantage of to re-enhance them, to the most vulnerable groups. A system that was being reformulated, because in June 2017 we were aware of a Constitutional Court ruling that the aid for the preparation of this court was annulled. It was, to the great extent, that this active policy was not the responsibility of the central government, but it had to be a competition for the autonomous communities. In September 2017, the Ministry of Employment and the Autonomous Communities agreed on a temporary management formula: the territories for a time handed over these competences to the Public Employment Service, and I say temporary because the Government, the former Government of the People's Party, had to propose a new plan of aid that would simplify and that would bring together all those benefits that were being received, those subsidies for the unemployed, always respecting the competence and undertaking — and this is important — to maintain and improve unemployment coverage. And I had to do it -- they said it and it was also decided at that sectoral conference -- by common accord, as is logical, with social agents and also with the autonomous communities. Seven months later, in April — and once that extension period was exhausted — the autonomous communities were presented with a first draft of that new income allowance which did not correspond to that maintenance of benefits, as was already foreseeable. What they were doing was bringing together the merger of the Preparatory, the EAP and the active income of inclusion in a new aid, the supplementary income of unemployment. But what was really meant was to cut the protection rights of the unemployed and the unemployed in this country with regard to the current situation. The new aid consisted of a single benefit of EUR 430 per month, not taking into account the peculiarities of each family or collective. And the calculations of the UXT itself that pointed out is that more than half of those who were receiving these benefits today were going to be harmed, because what was really not a reunification was to reduce the number of months they were receiving these benefits. Major trade unions, all trade unions practically, and nine autonomous communities opposed this measure, or this ambiguity of the Ministry — let us call it that. I say I hide because the aid expired on May 1st without any kind of agreement. It is true that people who were receiving these benefits are still receiving them, but it is also true that it is of great irresponsibility that those people who want to apply for it for the first time cannot do it today. All this time we didn't know or at least from the Socialist Group no one heard what Galician position was, what we were defending at that sectoral conference, what we were defending with social agents. Well, we knew of that position as a result of the allegations that the People's Party was not ruling. Because once again, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have decided to be militants of the People's Party and not militants of the more than 80,000 unemployed and unemployed of this country who see their help at risk. It wasn't the first time they risked or eliminated unemployment subsidies, because during their mandate, far from strengthening the power of social stabilization that has the whole system of unemployment benefits, what they did was to introduce aggressive measures against those people who were losing their jobs. Your goal was to reduce spending. Here's a graph that I think is quite clear: from 30 billion in 2011 to 17 billion in 2017, 13 billion in less in help to the unemployed. [[Mr. Blanco Rodríguez shows a document.]] And of course it's lowered unemployment, but not 40%, which is what came down these aids. The treatment of the most vulnerable has been sanitized over the past few years, in a special and particular way with those over 50 years. One sampling in which the first one they did was to facilitate the dismissal of those over 52 years of age, eliminating these restrictions to include them in the ERE. Once they put them in the street, they said, because now we're also going to limit the subsidies to the older 52s, and what they did was they were eliminated directly, and those of 55s had difficulty accessing it, with an income accounting for the whole family that didn't exist so far. They didn't stay quiet and they said: we're going to take a third step, werened to the pension, forcing them to retire in advance and without being able to cover those ponds — sometimes large ponds — that there were, filling up those cottage ponds, as it had done up until then. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we asked ourselves, "What did the 50-year-olds do to you? What did the people who worked for years and contributed to our social security system do to make this tremendous bleeding with them? We registered this initiative when in this country there was a government of the People's Party who continued to punish the most vulnerable. Today we have a new Government of the Socialist Party, which we are convinced that it will not treat the help of the unemployed as a social expense; what it will do is consider them as what they always have to consider, which is a social right. And nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u237	Thank you very much. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u238	Well, good afternoon again. This initiative presented today for discussion by the BNG has two objectives: firstly, to reverse the cuts in the system of unemployment protection to the working class in Galicia; and secondly, to reverse the undue centralization of competences in the management of these benefits, to reverse the invasion of the powers which the Government of Greece has and which the People's Party has carried out. Over the last few years we have seen the continued deterioration of the social protection system of workers who are in a state of unemployment, a system which has been cut down on the benefits accounts and tightened the requirements for access to them. We have seen that the unemployment coverage rate has fallen to around 50%, in particular 48.2%, i.e. unemployment coverage is only 48.2% of the unemployed. This means that 51.8% are out of that coverage, and of those 48.2% who have only 20% coverage have some contribution benefits, only 20%; the remaining 28.2% only have some kind of subsidy, about EUR 400. And that's what we're talking about. In Galicia, of these 176,696 unemployed persons registered — that EPA is another matter and we will talk about it tomorrow — only 92,000 earn some kind of economic benefit. And to the Government of the People's Party — they are brave with those below, so brave with those who have nothing but nothing — it has only occurred, in that centralizing and unifying effort, to carry out a process of unification of these aids, of the EAP — which is an activation program for employment — of the RAI — active income for insertion— or of the Preparation, for making a unification of these aids, but not to improve them, not to increase these 400 euros, not to convert them into subsidies that allow income to be something more than a mere subsistence, and just that. For this unification he had solely for the purpose of reducing them, even more so, to those people who did not practically have to survive to lower them even further. A new cut to the system of unemployment protection of the People's Party: it unifys these benefits by integrating them into Social Security, with the aim of reducing the time of perception and the content of the grant, in an attempt to prevent any administration from raising the coverage rate, both in the number of perceived persons and on their behalf. With this new reform, the PP wanted to cut that right time to benefit, to unemployment, and to deprotect by the administrations those people who had almost nothing. And suppose, if it doesn't change, not only keep the cut in the accounts and the hard requirements to access these benefits imposed in recent years, but also cause a reduction in the length of time of perception, and it would go down half between fifteen and forty-two months, it's almost nothing!; it could reach between fifteen and forty-two months. A real barbarity, a great social scam for hundreds of Greeks and Greeks in unemployment. At a time when GDP, according to all macroeconomic data, seems to be rising, is rising to 3%, where unemployment contributions in 2017 have 2,300 million surpluses, because this initiative is a reform that will impoverish the working class even further. Again, measures against workers and workers to tighten those living conditions more than they have, than those who have no employment and have already ended that right to unemployment. A real bravery: no action against the top ones and all the courage to take action against the bottom ones. And in addition, we find that this measure has actually been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. It states that the management of the aid to the unemployed who have exhausted unemployment corresponds to the autonomous communities; that is, the management of these benefits corresponds to the autonomous communities. And then why, if it belongs to the autonomous communities, is there absolute silence on the part of the Government of the People's Party on this issue, and on the part of other governments of other autonomous communities — all must be said? And why are they sitting at the table negotiating a question they don't have to negotiate, that they have no competence to carry it out? It's a question of the truth that some will have to explain. The Government of the People's Party did not enforce the sentence. The tastes that the laws are about to fulfill, those laws are about to comply with them always and when they affect others, of course; when they affect the People's Party or its governments, then they're about to leave them there in the drawers; and when they don't affect matters that they have to apply, then you move around in the forum. And what the People's Party did because it was to apply 155 jobs to the most disadvantaged working class, which is the one that has no work and which no longer receives any unemployment benefit, 155, with the complicity of the Government of Greece and of the Members and Members of the People's Party, who chiton on this issue. [[Applause]] Because you can apply any kind of measure to the working class while you don't go with the ones above; there we manifest ourselves enthusiastically and present initiatives; for the working class you don't have time. Well, follow-up to what they decided in Madrid. It seems to me that, as far as I've been listening today, that follow-up to Madrid is equally changing. In this follow-up of Madrid the same by these benches there will be a slight change of trend: spring, summer, autumn and winter; there will be a slight change of trend. In any case, we're faced with a really damaging measure for thousands of Greeks and Greeks, and it's really an invasion of competences. For these two reasons, the BNG brings this initiative here today, an initiative in which we ask that the Galician Parliament urge the Government of Greece to oppose this claim by the Spanish Government to unify these aids, which the only thing it intends is to reduce as much time as the counties can perceive; it is a unification to reduce time and counties; therefore, to oppose that claim. And to demand the management of these benefits, which I insist on — the Constitutional Court — there is a judgment — that it is within the competence of the autonomous communities; it is, of course, a decision on the basis of an appeal by the Basque Government, which, in fact, is not willing for the Government of Madrid to invade its powers. [[Mr. Prado Colors displays a document.]] We have a rickshaw self-government, but yet they're willing to take away all their competences. And now, if these issues we're seeing here from landings in Madrid, because I'm not saying anything anymore, they'll be willing to deliver them without even any kind of resistance, already absolute surrender. I hope that until tomorrow they will not have a decision yet and still have a bit of dignity and they will defend a little bit of the self-governance that they have; then, if they oppose this decision, they claim the management that the Constitutional Court has said it is the competence of the autonomous communities and that we then urge the German Government to sue the Spanish Government for a whole series of measures in order to recover the rights of the working class, especially of the most disadvantaged. The content of the minimum inter-professional wage, which depends on the average wage, as dictated by the European Social Charter. And issues such as whether the benefits are calculated in relation to the minimum interprofessional wage and not IPREM, because that means much less content. The derogation from the reform of unemployment benefits, the recovery of unemployment benefit benefits prior to the reform of 2012, maintain unemployment benefits in 70% of the average contribution of the last one hundred and eighty days. I mean, a whole series of measures that are going to allow the working class to have benefits that allow them to have minimum counts. Resetting the subsidy for older than 45 years, recovering the subsidy for older than 52 — which increased to 54 —, eliminating the tightening of requirements to access the perception of subsidies, which were hardening, so that they were increasingly excluding more people, to give this data:...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u239	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u240	...that more than half of the unemployed have no right to that benefit. I mean, it's a dramatic situation for thousands of people. And then also implement measures such as income from work insertion. Nothing more, and I hope the groups will vote in favour here in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u241	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. You have the floor, on the part of the non-amendant groups, first of all, Mrs. Torregrosa Sañudo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u242	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I will not, with regard to this House, reproduce the exaggeration directed against the unemployed by a member of the People's Party in the Congress of Deputies on 11 July 2012 and which made clear the ideological position of what was the party in the Government at that time. It was in a debate about Royal Decree Law 20/2012, which cut the protection of the unemployed. The insult was perpetrated by Andrea Fabra, daughter of Carlos Fabra, president of the Castellón Parliament, appointed by the PP, a man who presumed to be very lucky, to the point where he played the lottery ten times. So much luck ended when the judge sentenced him to four years in jail for corruption. An isolated case of more corrupt PP politicians, complicit in Camps, Zaplana, Rus, of the almost endless plot of Valencian corruption. That infamous statement sums up what was the policy of the PP government with the unemployed since he began ruling until we took him out of the government. The unemployed paid a double price in the crisis: first, they lost their jobs; then they suffered a severe cut in their protection. Of all the scissors, the most unjust, the most immoral, the most painful, were the ones who suffered the unemployed. In 2010 the unemployment protection system allocated EUR 32,000 million to the protection of the unemployed. In 2013, with 800,000 unemployed more than in 2010, the expenditure was reduced to 5,000 million euros, as a result of the first thesoyada caused by Royal Decree Law 20/2012 of 13 July. A weaver maintained over time, year by year, so that in 2017 spending on protection for the unemployed is already only 15 billion euros, less than half as in 2010. The cost paid by the unemployed was brutal, because the sum of what you stopped spending on protection between 2013 and 2017 reached a huge figure of 50,000 million euros. The unemployed paid with their deprotection the bailout from the bank or all their tax rebates to the rich. It's true that part of this reduction in spending is due to the fall in unemployment figures, but the most important reason for cuts is the deterioration of protection, less protected people and a poorer quality provision. In 2010 almost 80% of unemployed people received benefits, now only 56%; a drop of more than 22 points, which shows that they spend less because they are increasingly excluded from protection. It loses quality protection, because before they started cutting, 47% of the people with protection had a contribution and a higher quality benefit, and now it's only 39%. Symmetrically, people with subsidies, basically earning 426 euros, went from 53% to 61%. And even further cuts, because wage depreciation and Royal Decree 20/2012 caused the average amount of unemployment benefit to fall; it was 859 euros in 2012 and now it is only 804 euros. The eviction of the power of the PP saved us the last attack on the unemployed, because Fatima Bañez was processing the removal of the Preparation and the EAP, the last protection site for people without work and without income, to replace them with a six-month allowance instead of the twelve months they can charge so far. This was the perverseness of the Government: cutting the protection of people in the worst situation, those at the edge of social exclusion, to save only 250 million euros. Injustice, anti-social and unacceptable, since in 2018 the system will have a surplus because the unemployment quota income paid by employees exceeds the cost of benefits by 3,000 million. So our group will also vote in favour of the BNG GNP, as well as of the GNP of the Socialist Party of Galicia, although it seems to us to be partial and even contains some formal error. We do so because it's fair and also because the proposals made by the BNG are included in the 51 pages of the motion for an unemployment protection law that you tabled in Marea at the Congress of Deputies and which was admitted to the vote in favour of the majority of the House with the exception of the People's Party. It does so by acting on the set of relevant variables of the protection system, making it easier to access, improving the content of benefits, expanding protected groups, recovering cut rights, especially subsidies for older people. A bill as complete as the one you presented in Marea can't be explained in five minutes. That's why I'm going to quote some of the most relevant aspects. The content of the benefits, both of a contribution and of an aid nature, is improved; in particular, the contribution benefit will be 70% of the regulatory base throughout the duration of the benefit. The minimum and maximum levels of the benefit are lifted, increasing by 20 points the current limits. It broadens protection, extending coverage to people who work in the home services, essentially women, who are unjustly excluded. The protection of children under 30 is improved, reducing the contribution period needed to access the benefit to half. In part-time work it is calculated, for the purposes of daily shortage, that the worker is in a position of high regardless of how the job is distributed. Rights are recovered in the allowances lost in the 2012 reform, in particular those giving access to pre-retirement, returning the initial age to 52 years, eliminating the allowance until the person reaches the ordinary retirement age. And so many more to complete ten basic points that I now have no time to explain one by one. We trust, then, that the new Government quickly converts this bill into legal rule, because it aims at something as fair and necessary as it is to improve the protection of the unemployed, which must be a priority in the new political phase that opens, to reverse the downturn suffered in the last seven years, in which the PP government has reduced the coverage rate, deteriorated the quality of the benefit and lowered its count. It is their class position, their ideology, because this brutal cut in protection is not only to reduce expenditure; it is also — and above all — the concrete application of their reactionary ideology, and it considers that a system of unemployment benefit too generous prevents them from lowering wages, and therefore apply these cuts; rendering the unemployed hungry to force them to accept any job with any salary. That's why we took them out of the government, too. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u243	Thank you very much, Mrs. Torregrosa. Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u244	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. The truth is, I am obliged to begin by referring to Mrs Torregrosa's intervention. I don't think I have to explain to you why you're here or what the internal problems of your party are. And I think, when you talk about exabrupts, you know what you're talking about, because every day the tides of Pudimos are with these internal exabruses, all of them called, in that "growthful party" you came to represent. [[Murmurs.]] I understand you don't bother when I call them "Ornamental Party," because I don't say so, say Left United. [[Applause]] That's what you're dealing with. His own party was also called from those ranks. So, what do you want me to talk to you about? What do you want me to tell about this to a party that never did anything for anyone but the members of your own party? Have you ever worked for the unemployed in this country? [[Murmurs.]] Never. What jobs do the Lords of the Tides of Podemos worry about? Yours, yours...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u245	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u246	...the ones themselves. Look, what do you want me to talk to him about? From the cassaplon of the Iglesias family? You want me to talk to you about two pisitos of the Coruña friends? Do you want me to talk to you about this illegal scholarship from Mr. Erregón? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You want me to tell you about Mr. Spinar's pussy? He wants me to talk to him about the company of friends... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u247	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u248	...of Ferrol, the Coruña and Santiago? Look, we came here to talk about something else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u249	Mrs. Santos, please be quiet. Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u250	I said the founding president of my party, Manuel Fraga said, in politics all victories are ephemeral and all defeats are temporary. I say it so that they measure that enthusiasm, because, although Mrs. Prado Cores doesn't know, in this country the Socialist Party already rules. [[Applause]] And, therefore, if you want to talk about employment, talk to them, which is who we are urging them on this initiative. I'm saying it because he spoke to us. No, he didn't read the papers. [[Murmurs.]] You, who have contributed so much to this motion of censure, it turns out that they are asking us in the end. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, Mrs. Prado! I know the BNG is more comfortable in opposing the People's Party. It assumes the reality: now they have to oppose the Socialist Party in Madrid, in Madrid, and, therefore, when it speaks of employment policies, it addresses itself to that ministry, which, by the way, is so important for socialists who have not yet appointed it. Take care if it's important. All ministers have already left, but we still don't know who the Minister of Employment is going to be. Or isn't there? Or is the Ministry of Employment being charged? We'll have a chance to see you in the next few hours. [[Murmurs.]] Look, in politics it's important to know how to win, it's important to know how to lose, it's important to know how to lose — which you know a lot about — and you know what's most important? The important thing is to know how to lose winning, which is what we do from the People's Party, because people vote for us. [[Applause]] To go to the initiative, because I would like to refer to it, I have to tell the Socialist Party that we are going to request a point vote on its initiative, to vote in favour. They might take advantage to tell us not to approve it, because, as we urge their government, they prefer it to decline. We're going to ask him for a point vote, because there are things we ask the Government of Spain to interest us. And we therefore share the interest that the new aid is not supposed to lower the current level of protection for unemployed people in Galicia beyond the literality of the proposal, which we are willing to vote for. Look, this group, we think we've proven from the Government of Spain, from the Government of Mariano Rajoy, our concern for employment, and that's why we've created 2 million jobs. It's true that you've destroyed nearly 4 and we've been able to recover all the damage the socialist government has caused. We've only given up over 2 million jobs and you've destroyed 3.8 million jobs. And so what I'm telling you is that since the Public Employment Service we've devoted 7 of every 10 euros to the protection of the unemployed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's how commitment is demonstrated; now you will have the opportunity to prove what yours is. At the moment, they have no Ministry of Employment and no holder of that ministry. And, therefore, I have to tell you that, of course, we share with you this concern about employment, but much more since you left this motion of censure. And why so much more? Look, we refer to the statements of one of his party partners, who is Margarita Robles, who last Friday said, textually, "We want to follow the 2004 model, too, the model of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero." Man, what do you want me to say? It has certainly been disastrous for our country; employment disaster, GDP disaster, disaster if we refer to the risk premium, disaster on the deficit, on exports, on the whole of our society. He was a Frankly Disgusting Government. It collects the press of time: "from 2.2 million to 5 million. The unemployment rate is doubled in the Zapatero era." That was your legacy and therefore we are concerned; we are concerned that you are hampering this situation of economic growth and generation of employment. Spain is creating jobs, in Galicia we are creating above even the national coin, and this is proof that, if you take the recently published data, unemployment has dropped by 11.4% in Galicia last year, five points more than in Spain, 22,900 unemployed less in Galicia than a year ago. That's our legacy of the last year. I know you're more worried about something else. [[Applause]] Look, recent press, El País, no suspect of supporting the People's Party: "Rajoy fires with a record of job creation in May, and unemployment at end 2008 levels." We are concerned that you will come to bury everything, because the Socialist Party's main concern was to reach the Government at any price, even with those of us who denied deeply until some time ago. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'm surprised at the initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, very much like an extra-parliamentary speech of those who are no longer in Congress of Deputies and who are soon sharing that philosophy of the groups that support Mr. Pedro Sánchez's destabilization of Spain. Well, the BNG proposal really has to tell you that it surprises us curiously; you, who criticize job reform and then apply it to workers of your own party. What's up, Mrs. Prado Colors? Aren't those workers a working class? It's just that you applied your job reform, the job reform that you criticized, in your own party, with your workers, to fire workers. [[Murmurs.]] What's wrong? Wasn't that a working class? I think what remains in this country is hypocrisy, hypocrisy of saying one thing and doing the opposite; that's what remains. The BNG initiative, moreover, is a trap, as almost everything they present, because it is not true that the Constitutional Court's judgment says that the PAE, RAI and Preparatory programmes are autonomous competence. No, no, no. What we're talking about here is the Preparation, and the Preparation is an active employment policy and therefore it's not a program to give four hundred euros to an unemployed person. No, no. It is a program for improving the employability of the unemployed. And, therefore, the Preparation must be formulated differently if what you want is that it's a care program. That explains the amendment the Socialist Party has tabled to its initiative. So you can't come here and take advantage of the job to reach the sardine of nationalism. What concerns nationalists: the stopped Greeks? No, what concerns them is the nation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u251	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u252	...and the nation, how much more competences do you have, better, and if that costs them the allowance for unemployed Greeks, what else do you have?; the important thing is the nation, the idea of the nation, the nation, which has powers, even if they are negative for the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] They showed it when they defended the quota for our Community and showed it every time they put forward initiatives. You are in a partisan key and not defending the interests of the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u253	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u254	...and the Greeks. That's the reality. We are already concerned with the socialist model; we will see if there is a Ministry of Employment. And we, of course, defend that this new aid is a pact, if it is a pact between the Government and the autonomous communities, if it is a pact with the social agents, and we are going to defend that it does not entail a loss of rights, and that is why we ask the Socialist Party for a point-by-point vote in order to be able to partially support that initiative and also reject that of the Galician Nationalist Block. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u255	Thank you very much. Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez, first of all, has the floor on the author groups of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u256	Thank you very much, President. First, thank you for the support of En Marea for this initiative. I didn't detect that formal mistake. However, I am convinced that, possibly stopping this debate, because we can deal without any problems. We tabled an amendment to the initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block because we believe that the new Government, in addition to changing the bottom of its policies, must have a change in its forms. We cannot take those measures unilaterally, we must do so based on social dialogue and, of course, among all the autonomous communities, in that territorial council. Mr. Tellado, you come full of energy, you see it was good for him in Madrid. You come here today, after you're all gone, at this last hour, because, of course, you need that Galega TV court of information manipulation, which is also a form of corruption, to say: Watch out, the reds come!, watch out, the reds come!; and that, Mr. Tellado, is itself of other times, is not proper at these times. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, in this respect — I would like to, Mr. President, because I listened carefully...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u257	A little silence for everyone. But, well, for now we continue as in the previous intervention. Silence! All of us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u258	I didn't understand that I could lose winning. That doesn't give presidents of government, it doesn't give government, it doesn't give ability to put in place measures. What gives it is all that comes up with the Spanish Constitution, that supreme, sacred, unremovable norm, unalterable to you, and that then, when it turns out that what is put in place is an article that does not suit you, they jump from the armchairs saying: no, it's not legitimate. If it is legitimate, it is contemplated and democratic and it is contemplated within the Spanish Constitution itself with regard to the pacts. Well, you'll have to talk to Mr. Maroto, who in 2013 didn't have any kind of remilgo in covenant with Bildu, he didn't have any kind of remilgo, no sort of problem with it. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] The truth is, you, this government, have neither the decor nor the political class to give you a hundred days. [[Murmurs.]] You don't give this government a hundred minutes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u259	Silence! All of us. They don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u260	...in a hundred minutes they gave this government. They automatically pass into the attack, and you automatically come here, as it has been usual -- and I say with great respect -- to do what Sara Montiel did in the 1950s, which she never, never cheated, but she ended up boring with the same arguments and songs. Mr. Tellado, boredom, boredom... we've been listening to the same flap for almost two years. [[Applause]] Humility, Mr. Tellado, humility. And I'm going to tell you one thing: my group and I are convinced...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u261	Silence! Finish, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u262	...that not all militants or all voters of the People's Party are corrupt. It is true that there was, it is true that there is a court ruling — since it has already been discussed here — clearly, of the National Audience.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u263	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u264	I'm not going to ask them to respect all the citizens of this country, because we've even seen this initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u265	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u266	...that not even with that—that I am going to say—that if... the unemployed were able to respect them and them. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] [[Applause]] What I'm going to ask you is that you respect those who voted for it. And thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u267	You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u268	Well, I want to start by thanking the vote on En Marea. And then, Mr. Tellado, I see that today in the direction of the People's Party they passed silent decisions. The first one seems to be that this is going to be messing up the field all the time. Well, calm down, no problem, no problem. [[Murmurs.]] I have to tell you not to coincide with the People's Party in the measures to be approved for the working class for the BNG is reason of satisfaction, because you have never been able to approve anything that would favor the working class, with which for us never, never, not one, not one, not the first, not the first, not the first, not one. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And look, the BNG introduced this initiative when it ruled the People's Party in Madrid and we maintained this initiative when it governs the Socialist Party in Madrid and, for the moment, governs the People's Party in Galicia or they decided — the first part is addressed to the Government of Greece, just as it does not read the initiative — to apply a self-inflicted 155, to dissolve the Government to focus on the candidacy of Nuñez Fexóo in Madrid; the same is the case that 155 decided to apply because, because the important thing is Spain and, as important is Spain, because they decided to dissolve the Government here to focus on that candidacy, the same. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, at the BNG, we have the conviction that rights are not begging, demand, and there is a Constitutional Court that says that the management of the help of the unemployed who have exhausted unemployment corresponds to the autonomous communities. So we ask for what is ours, we demand that it be management of the Greek Government. So, we tabled a amendment to the Socialist Party's initiative, and this initiative — there is no time to explain the amendments — we tabled a amendment in that direction which, instead of asking the Spanish Government to let us demand what the Constitutional Court says, which is the responsibility of the Greek Government, we called for a whole series of reverse measures of all the cuts, of measures towards the unemployed, which was applied by the Government of the People's Party, and we asked the Greek Government to urge the Government of Madrid, which is now the Socialist Party, to put them into effect. And the Socialist Party presents us with an amendment saying they study. And what I have to tell you is that it's no longer time to study. I tell you, so frankly, that the working class can't wait any longer, that it can't change governments, that it's a necessary condition but not enough, it's a necessary condition, and in the BNG we're blessed with that change, but it's not enough. The working class needs not only good words, not only deep philosophy, but already changes. And I think that, at this point, after all the debates we had here about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u269	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u270	...decisions on reversing all unemployment cuts will no longer need to study the need to reverse them. So of course, BNG cannot accept that it will be evaluated or that the need to reverse them is studied. I think, apart from the change of government, what we have to do is take decisive steps in the direction that the working class is going to recover everything that has been stolen from it, and that needs measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u271	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u272	...that, of course, they realize that this is a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-05-DSPG074.u273	Thank you very much. Mrs. Blanco, I ask you to remove that word, those two words that if I don't know how, I suppose it was... didn't you remove them? [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yeah. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] But even if it's literal, I already know that you were alluding to another expression, not made by you, but, nevertheless, I think we can remove it the same way, though we already know what it meant perfectly. Don't worry, I'll take it back and call it in order. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thank you very much.
