ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u2	Before entering the agenda, I submit to the House's consideration of compliance with Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure, the amendment of the agenda proposed jointly by the four parliamentary groups which form part of the Galician Parliament, consisting of including a new point, which would be the seventh, for the processing of urgent appearances. In this case, it would be the urgent appearance of Mr. Economy, Employment and Industry, on his own request, to report on the situation of Alcohol and the actions carried out by the German Government in defence of jobs, to which the call is accumulated by the parliamentary groups of En Marea, the Socialists of Galicia and the Nationalist Galego bloc, also by Mr. Industrial Counsellor, in the face of confirmation of the closure of Alcoa in the Coruña. If no objection is made, this proposal is adopted by consent, and will therefore be dealt with tomorrow after questions to the Government. [[The agenda was changed by settlement.]] It is therefore the last item on the agenda. At the end of the questions to the Government, we will discuss this appearance. And now we're on the agenda with the first point. Establishment of the number of members of the House responsible for the defence of the bill, of the Galician Parliament, presented before the Congress of Deputies, an organ for the transfer of the title and powers of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, and subsequent designation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u3	Establishment of the number of members of the House responsible for defending the bill. The absolute majority is required, according to Article 163.3 of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure. It is therefore necessary for the House to set the number of Members or Members who will defend themselves in the Congress of Deputies at a maximum of 3. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] The proposal is that there should be 3 — the maximum number provided for in Article 87.1 of the Spanish Constitution — the number of self-employed Members responsible for their defence. As a result, this proposal is submitted to the House's consent. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] Mrs. Pontón, what do you want the word for? Give your voice to the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u4	I would like to ask for the word in advance of this point, which is why I would urge you, on the basis of Articles 73 and 163. If you give me the floor, I can explain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u5	Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u6	...because I want to make this consideration. Before we discuss this point, we want to inform the House that our group will not participate in this vote, because we are not going to legitimize a clamp between the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Tide that will exclude the BNG from the defense of a law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u7	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u8	...which, as all Members know, has been written from the first to the last line by the BNG, in which we have waged a political battle for this law to draw out all the difficulties that have been encountered. We have done it with great generosity over all these years that we have been discussing the transfer of AP-9. It seems to us that, from an ethical and democratic point of view, the situation that will take place today in this plenary, of course, is not presentable. And I think that, in ethical terms, it leaves this Parliament in very bad place, among other things, because, in the end, they're going to defend a law groups that don't believe in it, because so they've said and publicly stated it in the last few weeks. They're going to defend the transfer of AP-9 groups that have been vetoing the debate, groups that are responsible for raising the fees, and others that aren't even able to condition the state's budgets to which the rescue takes place. So we, as it seems to us that it is not presentable that the group that wrote from the first to the last line of this law is excluded, we are going to leave this plenary because we are not going to participate in a vote that ethically seems fraudulent, because democracy is much more than arithmetic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u9	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u10	...and, if there are no ethical principles, of course, we're setting a bad example for citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Before they leave, I want to tell you that this was dealt with at the Speaker's Board. A letter that sent Mrs. Pontón was also answered. In any case, according to the Juridical Services and the Presidency itself, there is no irregularity in what we are currently dealing with. As I would say, the number of Members or Members responsible for defending this bill presented at the Congress of Deputies is three. We shall then proceed with the appointment of Members responsible for defending the bill before the Congress of Deputies. Papers are already being distributed for the vote on the designation of a maximum of 3 Members or Members for the defence of the bill before the Congress of Deputies. Every member of parliament or member of parliament shall write a single name on the distributed ballot, and the highest number of votes shall be elected or elected. If necessary, the vote would be repeated. I suppose all of you... are still sharing your paperwork. Then we will begin the call vote, done by the bureau secretary, Mrs. Raquel Arias. I pray to the vice president first and to the deputy secretary next to the ballot box. Let's get started. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u12	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u13	Is there someone missing to vote? No, no, no, no. Then we proceed to the count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u14	The result of the vote is: votes cast, 67; votes in favour of Mr Martín Fernández Prado, 39; votes in favour of Mr Antón Sánchez, 14; and votes in favour of Mr Luis Álvarez Martínez, 14. Therefore, they are appointed to defend this bill presented at the Congress of Members by Mr Martín Fernández Prado, Mr Antón Sánchez and Mr Luís Álvarez Martínez. So we move on to the second point of the agenda, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. on the initiative of Mr José Manuel Lago Peñas, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the economic and social situation of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u15	This motion was tabled an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u16	Mr. Lago has the floor to make the motion. Whenever you want, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u17	Good morning. In this role is the fundamental argument to call for the support of the House's groups to the motion that we present to combat precariousness, labour poverty and inequality. It's a photocopy of Carmela's payroll. She's a Vigo worker who's employed in one of the leading companies in the sea-based development sector in the country. You want to know how much Carmela earns a month? He earns 795 euros. He's been in the company for six years, he's got an indefinite contract, he's been working full-time, but still he's charging 794 euros with 93 cents. Can you live independently of this salary? Can you pay a rent, a mortgage? You can pay the bill of light, you can eat, you can have fun with this salary? Can Carmela make the decision to be a mother with this salary? However, Carmela can be considered privileged because it belongs to the company's main template, its contract is indefinite and works full-time. And that situation is exceptional among the 8,000 women working in the crafts sector of the sea, because the crafts companies produced from the sea use and abuse temporary contracts, part-time schedules, but, above all, they use and abuse subcontracting to pay even lower wages. Between 70% and 75% of women working in the sector are hired through ETT, or even worse, which is called multi-service companies, which aim to circumvent collective agreements. That's why in Galicia there are thousands of women working in this sector so important to the country's economy that they don't reach 500 euros a month. Carmela puts a face to precariousness, but I'm not going to give her full name... [[Murmurs.]] I see that Carmela's story is of little interest to the People's Party's benches. It's the usual contempt for the working class. [[Applause]] She said that since Carmela is the face of precariousness, I'm not going to give her full name or the name of the company she works in, because I'm not an exception, I'm not an isolated case, I'm not even an irregularity. No, Carmela's situation is the norm, the usual and even legal situation in which thousands of women work and live in our country, with precariousness and poverty at work. Precautionary is already a structural feature of the labour market in Galicia. Only 47 out of 100 people affiliated to the General Social Security Plan has an indefinite and full-time contract, 47 out of 100. So 53 out of 100, more than half of our private sector's employed population, is precarious, works with temporary contracts, works part-time, works as a fixed termination, works with practice or training contracts. It's a generalized precariousness, but it especially affects younger people and women. Precariously, logically, it turns into work poverty, because the crisis, but above all the neoliberal management of the crisis — including labour reforms — are responsible for the return of poor workers and workers in Galicia in the 21st century, people who, despite having work, cannot live independently. There are records that are not subject to discussion. The IRPF statistics say in Galicia there are 450,000 employees who entered less than 900 euros a month in 2016; half of them work as employees that year in Galicia. That's why we say half the working class in Galicia is in precarious condition. True, I know you're going to answer the People's Party, that many of these people work a few hours a day, a few days a week, a few months a year; but that's exactly the precariousness of work: working with low part-time wages or very short-term contracts. Precarity, labour poverty and inequality, because the policies on the right have increased the differences to unknown levels in our country's recent history, also in the labour market. With the IRPF data, we know that the 1% that earns the most accumulates a wage mass above the 31% that earns the least. That's 13,000 people charge more than 312,000 people in our country. The elites, the social minority, earn 65 times more... — I remember that we were talking about a fair wage scale when it was one to three and a half — than those who have lower wages. Precautionary, poverty, inequality, are neither side effects nor an inevitable price to be paid by the crisis. It's not like that. This social deterioration, the transition from a precarious labour market to a precarious society, is the consequence of internal devaluation, of labour reforms imposed with the objective of reducing labour rights in order to ultimately reduce wages. I'll go back to Carmela's payroll. Carmela is a heroine because this month she'll pay even less. He'll pay less because he was on strike yesterday and tomorrow he'll be on strike. For every day on strike, Carmela loses 50 euros. Of these 794, every day you're on strike loses 50 euros. She and the 7,000 women who yesterday heroically stared at a huge successful strike in Vigo County. They took a strike yesterday and will be back tomorrow; a strike to try to negotiate a collective agreement that has not been updated since 2015 for the closure of the employer. [[Applause]] That's what labour reforms are for, to weaken collective bargaining, to give more power to entrepreneurs, to further disbalance labour relations. Do you know what the employer's name is in the craft sector of the sea? Convey. I'm sure they're all alone. They organize the Congemar Fair, where we put a lot of public money, where companies assume their power, their internationalization, their products, their enormous profitability. And we think it's good to take advantage of the country and assume it's business. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But can we assume the working conditions of the people working in that sector? Can you conjure up a stand at the fair to explain what the wages of the people working in that sector are? Can you assume wages of EUR 795, of precarious labour, of abusive subcontracting with ETT? And a question for us: can a decent country boast about companies but hide the reality of the work in which its employees live? We do not resign ourselves to the fact that the present and future of the world of work in Galicia is precariousness, poverty and inequality. That's why we brought this motion, transferring the demands of the Galician Economic and Social Council to the Union. Not from En Marea, but from the Galician Economic and Social Council, where they are entrepreneurs, trade unions and the third sector. The ESC's demands on the need to move forward in a model of inclusive growth, with less inequality, and a fairer redistribution of income, which happens — I say the ESC — to improve the quality of employment. I'm done. When we negotiated to place the minimum interprofessional wage in 900 euros we thought of Carmela; in the 8,000 women who work in the product sector developed from the sea; in the 55,000 people who enter Galicia less than 900 euros by working full-time; in the more than 100,000 women who don't reach those incomes partly because they work part-time. A minimum wage of EUR 900 does not solve the problem of precariousness and labour poverty, we know, but it is an important step in the right direction. That is why it cannot be understood that the president of the People's Party of Spain is so belligerent against this increase in the SMI. When we vote this motion, I would like you to have in your mind Carmela, your payroll, so that the People's Party can decide which side it is on: whether it is on Carmela's side or on the side of indecency; whether it is on the side of people who, despite their work, do not leave themselves from being poor or from reactionary, backward and, above all, classical positions of Pablo Casado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u18	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u19	Good morning. I wanted to start by blessing the workers, in feminine, from the sea, who gave us a lesson of dignity yesterday, and wish them all our courage and support in the name of the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Applause]] There's a question where this week, where we're going to start processing the budgets of the Galician Union, we have to think about, we have to stop thinking a little bit about it, which is the distribution of wealth, and how it is producing and how it should happen. Clearly, the macroeconomic framework has been growing for some time. It is also clear that this is because of state inertia and also at the global European level. You don't have a magic wand Mr. Valeriano Martínez to make this happen. But that trend is there. And in view of this tendency, a government can make two questions: it can sit down and look elsewhere, allowing social inequality to continue to grow, which is averted by the socio-economic crisis of the last ten years and which has only increased sharply, or it can arbitrate mechanisms so that the redistribution of wealth is really a redistribution and not a chronification of poverty. However, the People's Party has decided in the state, but also in the Galician Union, with its economic and labour policies, to embrace the first option, the status quo option, and to allow this situation to worsen. And let us therefore be left with a work and social reality which is very worrying and which even bodies like the ESC collect. Although I disagree with Mr. Lago about his solutions, because the ESC is hardly watered. It could get wet a lot more, but precisely its composition doesn't make it. But it also makes it much more solid and "creditability" — among other things — that diagnosis that it makes and that it should therefore pay attention to all agents. Because there are issues that are absolutely undeniable. And I'll mention two factors, two indicators, which are very relevant to us and which, in addition, the transforming union forces are putting right now on the table. One of them is the difference that we are seeing between the rise in wages in GDP and the rise in gross surplus operating companies, and another is temporality. These two issues are closely related. Temporality is not the only factor that explains that these profits of companies grow and have more weight in GDP than what refers to the wage mass of workers and workers, but it is true that it is one of the factors that increases that this is happening. And what are we talking about when we contrast what is called "raw excess exploitation" in economic terms and the remuneration of employees, which sounds like something very complex? Well, it's as simple as sharing wealth. And we're talking about, in the distribution of that pie, as the surpluses of companies increase, we see how the wages of workers and workers lose weight for the fifth consecutive year. And this is very serious, this began with a trend that came from far away but which began to worsen precisely in the most intense years of the crisis, where at last that transvade was given which leaves a few beneficiaries and many injured and injured. And even more so when these statistics that speak of that wage pay also include everything that has to do with contributions, everything that has to do with that seed that in the future will craft pensions. And someone might come telling us that we're ashes, that we're already the left nationalist predicting catastrophes, and that this abstractly is very good because it allows companies to generate more and better jobs. But that about economic theory is possible, but in the vital reality that this country has, this is not happening. The truth is that it is due to growing precariousness, a precariousness sponsored, in addition, consciously, by the labour reforms of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, sponsored by the absence of active policies of the People's Party at the Galician Council for the promotion of employment and inspection; also sponsored by factors such as the increasing weight of false self-employed and self-employed persons and a wage devaluation intensified by the crisis but that some and some want to remain forever. And so that surplus, that difference between those surpluses and the remuneration of the working class is what explains why capitalism is so good to each other and so bad to each other. In short, we have a job situation that supports this situation. Only by talking about timeliness in 2017, for example, were 92% of contracts temporary. We could put a lot more data, but the fact is that Mr. Feijóo's legacy is that it increases the rate of temporality, and more in women, the more we strive for 25 to 29 years and so a long et cetera. Is this the healthy, equal and sustainable growth that the People's Party defends us when it comes here to argue its economic policy? Well, of course, we don't agree at all. And we agree with the spirit and with much of the intervention that Mr Lago made here, but the fact is that we amended this motion because it seemed to us somewhat inadequate. It takes two statements from the ESC, two statements from which we can agree abstractly. But in abstract, the People's Party doesn't have the slightest scruple to come here and say they're already making that equal growth. So we, in addition to thinking about the many Carmels of this country, put on the paper some issues that seem fundamental to us, duties for the Board of Galicia: another labour policy, reinforcement of inspection and demand inspection powers to apply them in our country. And for the state too, because it's very good to bet on raising the minimum interprofessional wage. But we also understand that the lives of the many Carmels in our country will not be qualitatively improved if we do not derogate from all the labour reforms and pensions that have been applied by the People's Party and the Socialist Party since 2011. So we want this amendment to contribute to the fact that this proposal that we are talking about today is not just a determination and a reality. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u21	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. First of all, from the Socialist Group too, we encourage those workers from the sea. And secondly, and very much in relation to the motion we are debating, from this Socialist Group we regret a new death in a labor accident in Galicia and send a strong hug to the family of the driver of Taramundi who lost his life yesterday in Pontenova. [[Applause]] Labour accidents are growing in numbers and that is why socialists have on several occasions launched initiatives to enhance the implementation of the Welsh Health and Labour Safety Strategy, so that policies on job risk prevention are developed consistently and in a coordinated manner to reduce the number of occupational accidents and occupational diseases, as well as to increase the budget for this purpose to a minimum of 2011 levels. Reduced number of accidents at work is also an important part of achieving quality employment. At the beginning of 2018, the councillor of Fairy made the following statements in this House: "Our goal is to continue to create quality jobs and lower the unemployment rate." What does Galician Union call quality employment? How can these statements be made with the data closed in 2017? Do you really think the working class is noticing that recovery you're talking about? Don't you think it's time that this economic recovery that you're so proud of brings quality jobs, more and better jobs and better public services for the benefit to be transferred to people? They start once and for all putting people on the table above the numbers, which take all these years backwards, dominating numbers about people, reporting to Montoro at the expense of the working class. [[Applause]] But back to the question of if they really think the working class is noticing in their homes that economic recovery of what you're talking about already I answer them I don't. And, as proof, an example drawn from the memory of the Galician Economic and Social Council on the economic and social situation of 2017. In 2017 there were 76 strikes in Galicia, 19 more than in the previous year. It's the highest figure in the last 20 years. These strikes brought 169,000 unworked days. And I won't have to explain to you, ladies and gentlemen — as it has happened that I had to explain during the feminist strike of March 8 to your colleagues in the municipal popular group of my county — that if you're on strike the labor relationship is suspended. You don't work, but don't gossip or snakes. So if the workers lose wages with these strikes, it's because they're struggling for the recovery of pre-crisis work rights. [[Applause]] We already know that PP is fighting against other progressive rights and laws, although, paradoxically, they are the ones that use them most. The data that gives the memory of the 2017 Economic and Social Council are opposite to quality employment. The ability to recover jobs in Galicia is lower than the state set. In 2017 Galicia recovered 5.6 percentage points of membership lost against 10.1 points recovered from average in Spain. But this year 2018 is being repeated. Spain had, in the second quarter of 2018, 200,000 occupied more than nine years earlier. Galicia has 77,000 less. In Galicia, in 2017, there were 8.8% fewer senior affiliates than those registered in 2008, a percentage that is twice as much as what is seen in the state as a whole. In the period 2008-2018, the active population of Galicia decreased by 5.1%, 66,500 people, a decline four times higher than that of the state. In recent years, the number of employees with temporary contracts has increased to a greater extent than employees with indefinite contracts. The rate of time is 27.8 % in the private sector. Part-time occupation remains an eminently feminine phenomenon. 60.6% of the part-time unemployed are women. With the work reform of 2012 the figure of the so-called "poor workers" was created, those who have a job contract do not reach the end of the month. 18.5% of employees in 2016 declare a perception less than half of the minimum interprofessional wage. There is an increase in company agreements on sectors, which allow almost unilateral modification by the company. In order to ban labour reform, a wider consensus is needed, but it's not the same as governing one another. While some create precarious jobs, others bet on quality jobs. It is important to point out the improvements made by the State Government: recovery of the subsidy for older than 52 years, growth, only in June, of 8,000 false autonomouss and regularization of them — which is expected to reach 40,000 — and the revaluation of pensions according to the IPC. And in the agreement agreed between Podemos and PSOE — which we hope will be adopted by other groups — among other measures, as has already been noted, is the rise in the minimum interprofessional wage, the prevalence of the sectoral agreement on enterprise and the resumption of the collective agreement. Finished, President. No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not the same as ruling one party or another. It's a shame that the Galician Union had passed a new chance to bet on a high-quality job with these board budgets just presented by 2019. Galician Union places Galicia away from the 2009 budget level, despite the growth of the German gross domestic product since then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. The truth is, I don't know if we've just heard the Socialist Party's voicer or if we can talk in this House on behalf of several groups. I think it's so much symbiosis between Podemos and the Socialist Party that the Socialist Party's speech is now being scoured more than worrying. I have to read to you, Mr. Lago, your proposal, the proposal that is being put before the debate today, which is nothing other than to urge the Galician Council to respond to the demands made by the Galician Economic and Social Council in its memory concerning the situation of the year 2017. And it is demanded that you advance towards a model of more inclusive growth, with fewer inequalities and with a distribution of the most equitable wealth, and the necessary improvement of the quality of employment, especially in terms of high temporality, short term contracts and high rotation. I'm telling you because you've talked about a lot less than your proposal in itself, and so I wanted to remind you of the text to tell you, Mr. Lago, that, despite your intervention, the People's Group will vote in favour of this initiative. I'm sorry, 'cause maybe we're bitter to him tomorrow, but we're going to vote in favour. We are going to vote in favour of this text which basically brings us in for a very simple reason, and you are asking for the same thing as you have been doing to the Council of Galicia, exactly the same, exactly the same! [[Applause]] What they are asking for is what we have done to improve the working conditions of the workers, to reduce the inequalities that have accentuated the economic crisis and to make economic growth ever more and more effective, to the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks. Of course we agree! And, therefore, you urge us to do what you already do. And we're in favour, of course we are. Look, you're talking about precarious wages. I have to remind you of a great exercise of responsibility that social agents have done in our country during all these years of crisis. In 2010—and you know why I was in Labour Commissions—social agents signed a wage restraint agreement with the Government of Spain, which was subsequently renewed in 2012. So that was an exercise of responsibility that allowed us, during a crisis in which employment was massively destroyed, to be able to curb that job destruction and reverse the cycle of the Spanish economy. It is a achievement of all economic recovery, it is the Government, who dared to make labour reforms — first the Socialist and then the People's Party government — but also with the social agents we have reached this situation. I'd like him to talk about the Carmels, the lots of candy that he lost his job during this crisis when he ruled the Socialist Party. Those also worry about us, but we've been worried about them since then and we say so, we say so. So it's not the same thing to create jobs that destroy jobs. It is not the same thing to destroy and create 5 million unemployed in Spain, which was what the socialist government did, that it created 1.5 million jobs, that it was what the People's Party government did. It's not the same, it's not the same! [[Applause]] And I have to tell you that in your speech I find great inconsistencies; great inconsistencies not what you were saying, but between what you said and what your group does. It's just that you can't make that speech of concern about employment, about working precariousness, and at the same time come to this House and ask that you close Ence, that you close Elnosa, that you close Reganosa, that you close the thermal power station of the Bridges or that of Meirama. The other day a member of your group said that you are not AGE heirs, that nothing has to do with the previous group. Hey, hey, don't take our hair off! I demand coherence between what is said and what is done. And, therefore, we demand an increasingly high-quality job, a job that is up to the circumstances. But we claim it because today the problem is not the job, it is the quality of the job. When they ruled their partners — with those you run in jails to approve budgets — you said nothing and jobs were destroyed not by thousands, but by millions, millions! [[Murmurs.]] So, I think that coherence means that at the same time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u24	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u25	If they're in prison, it's because a judge decided it. I suppose we'll respect judicial independence now. So I ask for coherence between what is said and what is done, and if one defends the job he has to defend all jobs. You cannot come here to this House asking for the closure of companies, asking for the closure of Ence, asking for the closure of Elnosa, asking for the closure of Reganosa, asking for the closure of the thermal power plant of the Bridges, asking for the closure of the thermal power plant of Meirama, to be against the extension of Citroën. You can't have that double speech. It's not possible, it's not reasonable. We are, like you, equally concerned about the precariousness of work. We want more and more jobs and that job is becoming more and more quality, and we're going to keep working in that direction, likes Mr. Sanchez or not. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u26	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. For the motion's own group, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u27	It's always funny when the People's Party makes a list of all the companies that remain open in our country. I should bring the list of all the companies that have closed or are threatened to close in this country — that is the list we would like to know, Mr Tellado — ruling the People's Party. And I'm going to remember my favorite: Calvo No, they don't want to, but they close, they close you ruling. [[Applause]] [[Steer]] And that list that we would close we enjoy perfect health. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Secondly, the ESC says there is a need to do something, to move forward in an inclusive model of growth, to combat job insecurity, to distribute better, to distribute the wealth generated. When you say something has to be done, it's because it's not being done. Sounds like a clear logic. If the ESC recommends to the Galician Council that it change its policy to move forward in an inclusive model, it is that it is not supporting what the Government does. So welcome to this position, En Marea doesn't bother her with consensus. And I also like to have given him the opportunity to leave Pablo Casado alone in that reactionary and classist position. At least you feel a little shame not to share those positions with the president of your party, who is an antisocial person. Mr. Tellado, you're right. The Confederal Group of En Marea, Unite Podemos and En Comú We may have 71 Members in Congress, and therefore we are a decisive force in Congress. We are a decisive force in setting up a left-wing and progressive alternative to the People's Party. Of course we are, and proud that we are! [[Applause]] Thanks to us, there is a budgetary agreement that goes further, which is a legislative agreement; an agreement that includes 900 euros of minimum wages and that Mr. Pablo Casado said he would do all he can so that this would not happen. We're proud, but you're right Noa Presas says it's insufficient. If they were not 84-71, but 86 from the United Nations Powers and 71 from the Socialist Party, we would repeal the labour reforms of 2011 and 2014. We still don't have the strength to do it, but with the support of the Carmels, with the support of the unions, with the support of the working class, we are afraid to have that majority. It is not a contradictory situation with Noa Presas's intervention because I fully share it, even I share his position that it is not only the minimum wage but also the change of working reality, the fight against precariousness, the derogating of labour reforms, I have no doubt. But the origin of this initiative was to bring to this House, as she also said, what the Galician Economic and Social Council says; that is, employers, trade unions and organisations in the third sector. That's a proposal that, therefore, is not from En Marea, it's not part of it. It's a consensus position of economic and social agents in our country. In that sense, we will not accept the amendment, because what we intend to do is that this position, in which the ESC demands the Council of Galicia — and now the People's Party joins this position — will change its model to move forward in an inclusive model that combats precariousness and improves the distribution of income, it is better, we think, that it is approved as such and does not introduce changes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u28	Thank you, Mr. Lago. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the environmental situation of the river Umia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u29	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u30	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u31	Thank you, President. Good morning. First of all, I would like to welcome the representation that accompanies us in the public, representatives of Caldas and Moraña councillors, who come here, of course, to express their concern at the alarming situation of the Umia River, the encouragement of Umia; a situation to which he did not respond, in his speech at the plenary, the Environmental Adviser, and so we call for radical measures, effective measures, to end this serious problem, to respond to the alarm, to the great alarm and social concern that is caused by the pollution of the Huma river and the accumulation of cyanobacteries and by microcystins that gave rise to the declaration of alarm by the waters of Galicia on July 6 and also after the ban on the bathroom. You say it's overstated, there's no reason for the alarm. But when they ban the bath in the waters of Umia, something is happening. We're faced with a known, recurrent, chronic problem, but not that's why it's less worrisome; a problem, in addition, which has been known for twelve years and is still unsolved by the sole and exclusive responsibility of the Galician Union. We are facing a troubled affair, a very troubled matter, which is the result of a great scam, the scam of basse's encouragement in Umia; a work that was promoted and executed by the Galician Union against most of the surrounding population, and also against the decisions made by the full corporations of the municipalities concerned, although then -- you have to say so too -- some mayors who went up to the pneumatic boat accompanying Mr. Cooka on the inaugural tour. It is a work of supposed public utility that has really become a private utility work and that has not solved any of the problems that it was supposed to solve: neither the guarantee of supply to the municipalities in the Humia basin nor the regulation of the flow and prevention of flood floods, as we have seen over the past few years. He didn't solve any problems and created new and very serious ones. In short, what he did was transform a living river, like Umia, into a toxic river, into a contaminated, severely contaminated river. Not wanting to do so much harm together, with all the decisions they have made since the People's Party's governments regarding the Umia River and the coronation. And at this point it became absolutely clear that the real objective of the encouragement was the hydroelectric use business by a private company. That was the real reason for this work: business for a private company and disaster and undoing for the river and for the population; because, as I said, the encouragement has created serious environmental and health problems, it has created risks for changes in the ecosystem, in the coronation, in the river, and with probable and potential conditions also to the Arousa River — which, as we know, is the most productive of Galicia — and with obvious risks to the health of the population due to the contamination by cyanobacteria and microcystin. It will be for some reason, as I said, that the bathroom had been banned at the end of August, at the end of August, when the alert was issued on July 6 — certainly a few days after the BNG made a public complaint on this issue in Caldas. There is also no guarantee of water supply to municipalities that supply the Umia River, as is now happening with the debate in Caldas on the need to improve the technology of the debugger. And we have to keep in mind that Umia supplies a potential population of 150,000 people, which can double in summer. According to the controls carried out by Galician Waters, there is contamination at all checkpoints, at the six checkpoints, along the river. Besides, drinking stations don't have the right technology to treat this water from the river contaminated by the microcystic algae. The Caldas supply improvement project itself recognizes serious water quality problems and the malfunction of the positabilization system. This is happening, there's a serious public health problem that is not being reported by BNG, is that the World Health Organization itself has been warning about the serious risks that microcystin contamination can cause, which at very small doses poses a risk to health. It can cause damage to the liver system, the digestive system, and neurological effects. And it also has cumulative effects on the body. All this leads to us is to demand, at least, an epidemiological study that eliminates any doubts about the risks that can cause this contamination. There is a need, an emergency, for answers, which is what people are asking for in the face of this alarm situation created by these decisions they have made. And from here we demand that we not only take partial measures, palliative measures. It is essential for the BNG to carry out substantive measures that lead to the problem and give definitive solutions, not just patches, because we do not resign to live with this problem, with this permanent threat to health, about the quality of the waters of the river. And in this regard, we want to note and denounce also here the failure and the big scam that I put under that plan sold to bomb and plate by the Government of Unity in 2011. For the Government and for the Environment Adviser, at that time Mr. Agustín Hernández, who, as we know, is the great protector of the Greek rivers and, above all, of the Sar River, was also to be the protector of the Umia River. The plan foresees an investment of 21 million euros and it was an absolute failure and a scam, because all of these big problems that were detected at that time are not solved. I'm not going to refer here to all the works because I don't have time to list them, but really none of them gave an effective solution. And many of them didn't even get to be carried out, such as works of an environmental nature in river vegetation, such as the disposal of discharges, the purification of waters, etc. Also, regarding the announcement of the extension of Caldas debugger, as I said, the project itself developed by the company that did this previous study clearly says that there is a bad quality of the waters that is caused by that algae contamination that causes microcystin. And it is recognized in that report, in that study, the reality of the bad quality of these waters, which is a reality that is given in addition to other points of the river and in other supplies to other positabilization stations. And we also demand through this initiative, through this motion, that there be transparency and clarity in this matter so turbulent, so dark, as is that of contamination of the corrosive and the Umia River. We call for analytics and more frequent follow-up. We asked for an epidemiological study to determine possible impacts on the health of the population — we didn't ask so much, did we? We asked Parliament for a report on all the actions carried out in the wake of the Umia Plan, to assess its ineffectiveness and its failure — such as that system that would be the solution, the treatment with eucalyptus shortness of treatment — for example. We also asked Parliament to report on the situation of payments for the use of hydroelectric power, which was the real reason for the encouragement. And besides all this, which are partial actions, we ask to go further. We asked to address and solve the problem from the very root, go to the bottom, restore the river course and do it with all guarantees. And this happens, of course, by releasing the stagnant river, the corroded river, by rescuing the hydroelectric concession, and ultimately recovering Umia as a living river, as a river and in the future. We want the Umia River returned to us that we were stolen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u32	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u33	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning to the guests too. This is the second time in less than a month we've been discussing pollution in the bottom and the Umia River. On the 25th of last month we brought a non-law proposal from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and there was also an interpellation from the BNG Group, which is precisely the origin of the motion we are debating today. And again — as we had done in that non-law proposal — we believe it is necessary, firstly, to remember three dates that were fundamental: the year 2001, which was the source of the encouragement for the Umia River, and that it was a work by which President Fraga and the Cuisine Counsellor were betting at that time; the year 2010, with a project to maintain and preserve the margins of the river's coronation in the Towns of Cuntis, Moraña and Caldas of Kings — a project of what nothing is known — and the year 2011, when former councillor Agustín Hernández promised an integral plan of action for the Umia River, of which nothing is known. And from last month to this month we have to ask ourselves if something has changed. And the truth is that the river is still alert — not in alarm but in alert — for cyanobactories since July 6 — that was when it was activated, mainly because from the Caldas Town Hall it was pushed to activate the alert situation, essentially from the mayor's office. And these cyanobacteria are toxic algae that can — they may be — be dangerous to people's health, but that are not being precisely because of the effort to clean up and supply that is being done from the Caldas Town Hall, with an over-cost for water sanitation. [[Applause]] And this doesn't happen for the first time, it's recurrent every summer since the chorus is here. However, the former councillor — for if there had been a novelty since the full past to this one, and it was that in the full past, on the 25th, the adviser was Mrs Beatriz Mato, who is present, and now is no longer the environmental advisor, because the former councillor at that time said that the responsible for cyanobactures were the deficiencies in sanitation, the influence of agricultural activity and the absence of coastal forest. Nothing about the cheer, the cheer had nothing to do with it. Neither has the Government of Galicia, which since 2011, has promised this comprehensive plan of action for the Umia River for seven years, because we don't know anything either. But that has nothing to do with it. Between 2002 and 2008 the Union received more than 4 million euros from the concession holder, nor did it invest in improving the quality of water in an integral project of care and attention to the encouragement, nor did it clean up the channel of the Umia River and the bottom of the coroner. It is true that since 2008 Mr. Núñez Feijóo's government has been fighting with the dealership to pay him what he owes him, and we don't know at the moment where those amounts are. Water avenues over Caldas have been markedly reduced since the coronation exists, and that's what the neighbors and neighbors of Caldas know because it's the ones who live year by year. But the information that they would have to receive all the municipalities in the surrounding area is still not flowing. And the new advisor, curiously, last week went to Caldas, went to sign the new PXOM. And it passed necessarily over the river, because the county is next to the river Umia. It's more, from the city hall's windows you can see the river; therefore, you could see perfectly as you were. But he didn't say any more, no more!, nothing!, absolutely nothing!, of the green color of that river. That is the concern that the Government of Galicia has really by the river Umia, the historical concern, which can also, indeed, be seen year by year in the municipal elections in Caldas itself. Our amendment goes in the same line as our proposal was not of law at the time. We ask for the same thing as we voted in the previous plenary session. We believe that the request of the BNG Parliamentary Group motion is fine. We do not agree with the need to dismantle the encouragement, because that would imply a series of consequences that have not been analysed and that we do not know from an environmental point of view or from any other point of view; in particular, in relation to previous floods and desolations and not present on Caldas since there is encouragement. But we believe that it is necessary an integral project of care and attention of the choir, clean the bottom of the choir, vacial, clean it, and clear the channel of the river Umia. That would be a fundamental measure. And especially that the information reaches all the municipalities affected, which is not only, of course, the Town Hall of Caldas. I'm the one from Portas, the one from Vilagarcia de Arousa, the one from Moraña and the Mancomunity of Salnés. We expect our amendment to be accepted. He does not escape the vote the other day in this House, and the BNG Parliamentary Group has also voted in favour. But if it is not accepted, we ask that the group be allowed to vote by points. And for our part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u35	Good morning to all of you. We've been talking once again about one of the most important environmental problems, created uniquely and exclusively by negligent decisions and interests of the People's Party for years, which has still been with the characteristic opacity and without recognizing that there were political decisions that created an environmental problem. When we talk about the People's Party, we have to make this clear, that we're talking to the People's Party. It was said before that this encouragement was not useful to solve the problems that served as a pretext for doing so — not the fillings or the supply of quality water — but it did serve for the business of a private company. And that's right, there's a hydroelectric concession that is owned by Hydroelectric Cortizo, which is by chance in the roles of Basel as a patient in 2005 and 2006 of 222,000 euros to the People's Party. It's not a minor detail, is it? People's party patients who paid Mr. Fraga's campaign received counterbalances on public political decisions. And in this there is a key: it is not only incompetence — that too — but the business, once again, is behind the decisions of the People's Party. And this has to be clear. [[Applause]] It is on the roles of the illegal financing of the Spanish People's Party, but also of the Galician People's Party, which in that year received nearly 2 million euros in opaque and illegal prayers. And among them was Aluminos Cortizo. Well, an obvious environmental problem. When it started to be a recurring problem since 2006, when there were temperature conditions determined in the summer, I remember Mr. Agustín Hernández saying that the problem was that there was a lot of nutrients coming from the river. And then who did the environmental process to approve that project? That's what you have to say before. Because if there's a supply of phosphates and nitrates to the river that can cause eutrophication, what we have to do to cause a more serious environmental problem is stop these waters so they don't get hurt, just increase or multiply a problem that would even have to deal with. But nothing to apologize for or assume responsibilities, maintain it and not amend it, and try to set patches so that the people of the region continue to vote for the People's Party, but not a minimum of honesty, not a minimum of decency in the treatment of the subject. It is clear that there has been no transparency over these years, for example, to tell us what those measures were announced by Mr. Agustín Hernández to reduce nutrients and what they have translated into. Because we saw this summer that the same problem happened again and the waters were once again full of microcystin, the waters became green again. And we had to listen to the same lies and manipulations once again. Of course, people don't give themselves poisoned water to drink! But how do you impact that when you do the debugging of those waters? It obviously emphasizes the service paid by the municipalities to debug and worsen the quality of the waters, when the source resource should already be looking for a certain quality so that the debugging system is as aggressive as possible. And, as we said here, we have to deal with even more chlorine water so that it's not a health problem. That's why it doesn't mean that the encouragement, therefore, served and contributed to a quality supply, but rather the opposite. So we support this motion at all its points. Because the first thing they should do is come here and let us know -- not to us but to the people in the area -- what action they took, what of that Umia Plan and all of their announced measures and how they worked, to make an assessment of those measures to see whether or not they worked. I'm afraid it won't be that way. And we also agree that the despondency of basse's encouragement is being studied, because of course there may be other measures. The eucalyptus cork, as you can see, doesn't work very well. But there's one that would solve the problem, and it's just that basse's encouragement is gone. That would solve the problem of safe microcystin, for sure, because if we were to water it would be solved at once. So information, honesty — something that is a lot to ask for for for the People's Party — because behind all this is the illegal financing of the People's Party and its illegal practices for years and years. [[Mr. Sánchez García shows some papers from the gallery.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u36	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u37	Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning to the assistants, too. Mr. Sánchez, of ethics and honesty, you speak, Anova's spokesman, you who are a specialist, an expert, in poisoning, and who costs you a lot, in addition, from what I see, to understand the rules of democracy. But, look, Mr. Villares will be right. You have no ethics or knowledge of democracy. It's hard for a fellow of yours to say, but because of his trajectory in this Parliament, I think he's going to ratify those words. [[Applause]] Look, I'm asking you, please, for some responsibility and rigour. You, you... it's hard for him to understand the rules of democracy, it costs him. [[Murmurs.]] We'll see. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You speak of microcystin, which is a toxin generated by some cyanobacteria, and microcystics, which is a kind of algae, as if they were the same thing. And you do it deliberately. The same thing that confuses alert and alarm and the same way that confuses coloring with pollution. And, ladies and gentlemen, until now in the coronation of the Basse and in the uptakes located on the Umia River, waters below it, there has been no detection of microcystin, but of microcystis. No toxin presence has been detected in any case, but the algae that give the water that look green, an aspect, of course, that is not pleasant, but in no case are toxins. It is important to differentiate and clarify. At the Caldas reservoir, we've never detected toxin in any year since we have records, and, of course, not this summer either. Still, to control the presence of cyanobacteria, weekly follow-up samples are being carried out from the Union to know real-time developments, ensuring strict control against the possible health risk, something that is not available today. Positation systems are working properly, so water consumption for human and bathroom use is guaranteed and does not pose any risk to the population. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it takes a bit of seriousness to let the technicians work and not generate unjustified alarms. Look, ladies and gentlemen, since 2007 the follow-up and control programme for cyanobacteria has been underway in support of supply of the Galicia-Costa hydrographic demarcation, in which the Galician waters closely collaborate, the Environmental Council, through the Galician Environment Laboratory, and the Health Council. It is a comprehensive programme of actions and controls that is based on the World Health Organization guidelines and which has been improved and simplified in 2012, which allows for the unification of criteria and coordination of efforts among all, improving actions and making them more effective. I am not clear, ladies and gentlemen, if you disagree on this protocol, or if you consider this protocol to be invalid, or if the health tests and controls are not correct. Because you, ladies and gentlemen, what you are asking on your own initiative is that all these controls, health criteria and administration coordination are replaced by the arbitrary approach of your lordships and that this protocol does not operate with objective criteria but with political criteria. That's what you're suing. With this protocol, ladies and gentlemen, which has been applied for more than a decade, it is ensured that strict control of the possible health risk in situations of proliferation of cyanobacteria, so that the intensification of control in the inlet and exit of drinking water treatment stations allows the rapid detection of levels of toxin that may be harmful to health, for activation, precisely, of alternative supply measures. And thanks to these controls, we know that in the coronation of Baxe, and in the uptakes in the Umia River below, no toxin presence has been detected. I would also like to add that during the last eight years, and despite the competences corresponding to the municipalities, Junta has acted in several lines towards the minimization of cyanobacteria in the coronation, the mitigation of the risks for supply, the decrease in the magnitude of the episodes and the elimination of the causes of nutrient coming to Caldas. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Junta is maintaining a vigilant and proactive attitude to try to deal with this problem, but the solution comes from the collaboration and participation of all the administrations and individuals involved. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, all the data obtained in recent years in the framework of the health surveillance of supplies indicate that by the marbles of the municipalities supplied by Caldas' encouragement, never came out of a drop of water with toxin or algae, and to say the opposite is an absolute irresponsibility and is also a lie. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u38	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. For the motion's own group, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u39	The representative of the People's Party, Mr. Trenor, said that there was no microcystin contamination, that there was no risk of health. So the question is, why did they ban the bathroom on the Umia River if there was no health problem? Why did they ban the bathroom? This, at least, cause I don't know if it's alert, but alarm does cause a lot, Mr. Trenor. [[Applause]] Why did they ban the bathroom if there was no health problem? And Mr. Trenor also says that there is no problem with positabilization either, when the debuggers — removing Caldas’s — have a chlorine-only positabilization system; and when Caldas’s system has just made public a report that says water is contaminated, that the positabilization system does not work, that breaks down, that filters are stuck, that you have to put down ozone and carbon positabilization, that the chlorine system is not worth it. And this for Caldas; for others, nothing. You came here to justify the defeat, the scam which I assumed the encouragement of Umia, which I assumed of the Umia Plan. And he didn't come here to give us any solution, he came to justify all the evil they've done throughout these times. And with regard to the Socialist Party, I have to tell Mrs. Patricia Vilan, first of all, that it is not true that there were not filled after the construction of the choir. There were crowded places in Caldas and there were the most serious ones known. So there's still this risk, this problem. This question has not been resolved. And there was no solution either to the issue of quality water supply to the municipalities that feed on the river Umia. Of course, they also draw attention to the changes in the position of the Socialist Party, because at the plenary of the Caldas Council they adopted a motion that raised the question of the elimination of the encouragement and the rescue of the concession. Here's the text. Here's the text. Well, you have to be a little more coherent and defend things where you are. And, of course, the key issue, the definitive solution goes through the elimination of the encouragement, the rest are palliative measures. We will accept, if it seems good to you, as you add to the motion of the BNG, points 6, 7 and 8 of the Socialist Party amendment, which complement the motion of the BNG, because you accept the entire motion of the BNG, curiously, except the elimination of this study for the elimination of the encouragement, which must be done from the very beginning with all guarantees. It's not about putting a bomb there and throwing water down the river. We have to do things with guarantees and with all the necessary technical and scientific rigour. But that's the true and definitive solution, the rest must do it too, but it's partial and temporary measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u40	Thank you, Mr Bará. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the reduction of educational supply in the municipalities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u41	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u42	To formulate the motion, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. The motion brought today by our parliamentary group is something that is almost becoming a classic at this time of year, since it refers to the need that we believe there is a consensus to redefine the fundamental aspects of our network of centres, both in compulsory and post-obligatory education. Obviously, we have to make a little story about how we got to this point. We started from the famous General Education Act of 1970, which we all know — more than others, of course, for reasons of age above all — that configured the education system with stages such as the famous EXB—the Basic General Education, the Unified Polyvalent Bachelorate and the First and Second Degree Vocational Training. Then, in 1990, as a logical consequence of the country's evolution in the educational field as well, it was decided that a new law was needed, which was the General Education Act, which is, with changes, that we have today in force — at least as regards the structure of the educational stages. And so today, we have children's education, primary education, we have compulsory secondary education, we have Bachelor's degree and we have both secondary and higher education cycles; and now, that new form of basic vocational training cycles. When it was necessary to adapt the reality of our autonomous community to the new legislative framework, a necessary decision was taken at that time — conflict, of course, because it was because it was — to define a network of centres where it was written that teachings would exist in each of the educational centres, both schools of child and primary education and secondary education institutes. The integrated public centres have been created — today almost a modality of extinction by the events of the Permanent Council. But he said that this network of centers was created, that it was a work, obviously intense, a very broad work and a complicated work. But it was done, it was done, and in the late 1990s it was set in motion what was defined in that network of centers. And so far we're with that configuration, with, of course, quite a considerable amount of center loss, both in whole centers and in units. This network needs a change today, and our parliamentary group understands that this change that it needs must be made in a consensual way to avoid unnecessary tensions in the educational community; particularly from the family sector, which is the main sector, because of course it is the recipients, the users of the education system, as by the professor, who is obviously also a fundamental part of that system. We have a demographic crisis that has been the subject of treatment in this Parliament on countless occasions. And it's going to be because it won't disappear overnight. It will also be necessary to take action and to correct the measures taken. But the fact is that between 1998 and 2016 — that is, in 18 years — in this autonomous community was reduced by 6,500 students and 12-year-old students, who start the compulsory secondary education stage. I give this data because, if we quantify it, if we put it to this problem, we see that this amounts to more or less 216 classes; or, if you want, gentlemen, that 18 secondary education institutes suddenly disappeared from the face of the autonomous community -- 10 or 12-unit institutions -- i.e., I'm not talking about small centers. This is the reality. It is similar to that reality that we have data from the Ministry of Finance and Public Administrations of January 2018 — this where we are — and therefore I suppose that for the majority group of the House few suspects. We have 2,132 teachers less than in 2009, two thousand one hundred thirty-two. Those guys have faces, too. What do we got? Yes, we have more areas and subjects in primary education, compulsory secondary education and bachelor's degree; we have more areas and subjects. We have more optativity, and in some cases — or in many cases; in any case in more than desirable — that positive increase in areas, materials and optativity moves to a negative increase, which is that there is more inequality between centers, because those centers that have more students and therefore more teachers, of course, have more capacity to offer materials than in other cases they cannot offer. We also have more tags: we have multilingual centers, we have Pluribach, we have excellent bachelor's degree, we have STEM bachelor's degree... we have, we have, we have. We have a lot of things, but we have, too, less and less small schools that care for our little ones. That's a reality that moves year after year. Yes, we have fewer schools but we have a whole constellation of educational programs, which I'm not questioning or saying are unnecessary. In vocational training, which is elevated to the highest rank by the inclusion in its designation of "Vocational Training" both in the council and in the ministry in Madrid—of course, which seems to me to be good and applauded—we have a lack of important coherence between the training offer that our institutes are giving and the labor needs they have. So that will also be an aspect that is necessary, from our point of view, to redesign. Each course, every start of course, we have a small chain of locks to which, without being itself of a sufficiently serious entity, when they are all put together, when they add up, they go like the infinitest ones in mathematics: each one of them is nothing, but when they come together they are something important. Or as I told Mr. Education Counsellor in my appeal at that time — which was his last intervention in that responsibility — a genuine "chain of microsisms." And that happens as a consequence, above all, of changes that are not written anywhere, and this is particularly serious. You're probably going to tell me that there's a six-student ratio to decide whether or not to close a center, and I said and I say again that that six isn't a number that necessarily has to live with. I think I quoted it: it's not the pi number, it's not the number, and it's not the golden number, actually, and so it's a number that can be changed. The modification of that minimum ratio and the general modification of the conditions for having an education system and some ratios under conditions or in other conditions will depend on the political will of this chamber and that it will transfer you to the College of Education, University and Vocational Training. Just remember what happened at the beginning of this course: there were problems in Portomarín, there were problems in Ponteareas, there were problems in Cariño — and there were problems in Covelo, there were problems in Salceda de Caselas... and so a considerable amount of centers where there were problems. Serious problems? No, no, no, no. Problems suggesting leaving students out of class? No, no, no, no. Problems suggesting that students be grouped into units beyond what they've been doing? Yes. Problems relating to the provision of care to pupils with specific educational support needs, changing without written instructions, what has been done so far? Yes. That's the reality. Today he comes to the press — you can consult him — a correction from the Council that told parents of a Oleiros institute that they have a child with a severe need for educational attention and that he needs what we colloquially know as a caretaker — that they are educational technical assistants — that he couldn't be, that they either sent his child to class or that they were the mother or father to attend to the child in class. Actually, this is not what a 21st-century Galicia deserves. And why does this happen? Because there is no criterion or, if there is, it is not written. And what we ask, precisely, is that in this chamber, which at the end of the day is where the will of the autonomous community of Galicia lies, if all sectors of the educational community — parents and mothers’ associations, teachers’ associations, etc. — councils, municipalities’ federations... all of us are able to redefine elements and criteria that effectively guarantee equality that today — and you know — does not exist in our autonomous community. They can't stay behind if we decide to close a center or if we don't close it, depending on whether we have more or less teachers. Because, frankly, I think after that countless number of 2,132 teachers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u45	...and teachers — named president — less in the autonomous community in the last nine years, well we can afford to provide the educational system of human and material resources needed to provide a 21st century education service. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. We welcome the third and fourth ESO students from the Our Lady of Hope of Vigo School to this debate, which is also about education. You have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u47	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. And good morning also to the student, because it precisely coincided, I think that in a very true way, we are discussing a question that is very closely linked, precisely to something you know first-hand, such as public education in our country. From the BNG Parliamentary Group we will support the motion presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group today. We made two approaches: one has more to do with a slaughter and the other we wanted to realize something that we see important for the BNG, precisely to the thread of the intervention that the Socialist spokesperson now had by presenting the proposal. We have tabled an amendment to include an issue that is important to us, and it is to emphasize precisely the specific case, the specific case that hits rural spaces in our country. We understood perfectly, because it also comes from an interpellation, which also focused on it by the Socialist Party itself, but if we wanted, from the BNG, to include an express mention of the situation that hits rural spaces. That is why within the educational community that you have to talk about, that you have to debate, that you have to analyze what is the reality of the schools in our country — especially in those spaces that are getting increasingly and increasingly out of existence — it was also important to count on an entity or a group that takes little time—relatively, because it takes more time than we believe—that it is that the Galeg Network of Education and Rural Development, which embraces very diverse entities, very broad entities: Confederation of ANPA Galegas, union centres, pedagogical renewal movements, rural development groups..., and that puts the focus not only on the need — as Mr. Álvarez put forward — that these numbers are not an absolute and unique truth of six children to maintain, for example, a unitary school, but they can be debated, that they can be analysed if it is considered appropriate — as Mr. Álvarez too has been defending the BNG — that these numbers are not an absolute and unique truth of six children to be reduced to keep the minimum number of school open. Always from the perspective, as we've defended so many times in this chamber, that schools keep alive too and set population in rural nuclei. As soon as you close a school, you irremediably cause the transvasion of that population to other localities or districts that have services. It's not just school, but it's often also social services or public services, such as health centers, those that motivate the population to stay in one place or move to another. That is why we understood that amendment to add this would introduce an element which is essential for BNG. And then we introduced an amendment to add precisely to transfer the demands of some of the centers, and others that mentioned Mr. Álvarez in his intervention, and which marked the beginning of this 2018-2019 course, but which is not exclusive of this academic course that has just begun. Cases such as that of the institute of Brión, of the CEIP of Allariz; cases, for example, of the Barrie de la Maza, in Santa Comba; of the Archediago, in the municipality of Santiso; of Roxos, in Villestro; Castelao, in Orders; Father Feijóo, in Allariz... that is, educational centers in which the educational community, especially the ANPAs, the student and also the teaching staff mobilized at the beginning of the course for the lack of teachers to guarantee the maintenance, often, of the educational offer that is necessary to meet the educational needs of their student. We have also brought it from the BNG to this chamber, and we urge in that sense that the Galician Parliament calls upon the Union to guarantee always the teacher that is necessary to combat those ratios above what the law establishes; to ensure that there is correct, adequate attention to individuals and students with specific educational needs; to maintain support and academic performance programmes; to ensure that the options are maintained, ultimately, too. Mr. Álvarez was saying that we have more and more, it is true, but it is equally true that there were centers, such as the institute of Brión, which were unable to offer one of the star measures of the People's Party, which was Robotics — despite having received much recognition within and outside the board of Galicia itself — precisely because they were not guaranteed the number of teachers they need to keep that option. These are the approaches we have made from the BNG Parliamentary Group and we hope they will accept them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. You have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u49	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, since the Parliamentary Group of En Marea we are going to support this non-legislative proposal, because if we talk about the recovery of rights, the recovery of the right to public education, free, secular and quality for all, In Marea will always be an ally force. If we talk about the need for more teachers, specialists, public resources so that the school is a guarantee of equal opportunities, In Marea will always be an ally. That's what we're here for, that's what we're doing politics for. That's why we want to remember very proudly that our negotiations with the Socialist Party in the General Courts also served, in terms of teaching, to increase scholarships, to reduce university rates, to reduce the educational burden and ratios, as well as to increase the resources to finance school material. Specific commitments, not words. For yes, our vows, Mr Tellado, count; they are decisive and we are proud of them. We understand that this commitment is important because it places education at the centre, the place where any government committed to the rights of its children and children should be; the place where any government committed to the future of a country should place it. Unfortunately, this is not the place that the Government of the People's Party has reserved for teaching in Greek; quite the contrary. For years in the streets, in countless demonstrations, as in numerous interventions in this parliament we have seen denounce systematic cuts, the short-term economic policy that aims to crush public education, a policy that we have already said is unfair, ineffective and that seeks to condemn the future of this country. Since we have been reporting that less resources is not savings, they are less rights; that when we are told that there is a need for teaching belts, what they are telling us is, in fact, that they believe in a differentiated teaching, of higher quality only for those who can pay it; that when we talk about numbers, what is about hiding are the continuing closures of classes and educational centers in rural areas: the loss of professor specialist in Cariño, the removal of optional subjects in Brión, the loss of teachers in Allariz, in Ares, in Orders, in Roxos, in so many centres in the country that this start of course is saying: "above already! It's enough cuts, it's enough misery, it's enough to mistreat our educational centres, it's enough to dismantle public education from what we'd have to feel proud and proud of. Specific cases that the Council ignores and treats as minor examples that were not worthy of their attention, as if each and every one of the educational centres in this country were not responsible for the Council. As if all the children and children in this country didn't have exactly the same rights. And ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they don't have them. You don't have them because you don't have them when you vote not on the opposition initiatives; you don't have them because it's not the same thing to have classes of ten students than thirty; it's not the same as having hearing and language specialists who don't have them; it's not the same as being able to study an option range that you can't do; it's not the same as having teachers who have all the busy days in classes who have time for the personalized treatment of the needs of each of the children; it's not the same. So the rights that each and every one of them has are not the same. And how can we prevent this from happening is what the Socialist Group's initiative is about, so — as I said — it will be voted on in Marea. But we have just registered an amendment because, in our view, the more concrete the parliamentary agreements, the more far-reaching we will be able to comply with them. We agree on the line, but we think that there is a lack of concretion, and hence our amendment, which we have introduced a number of points that we consider fundamental in addressing any dialogue on equal educational opportunities. Because here we don't start from scratch; fortunately, there's already a lot of work done in the educational community that -- we understand -- we have to put on the table. That is why, in our proposal, we are talking first of all about the coverage of educational squares that have either been amortized or eliminated; secondly, the need to reduce teaching hours of the teacher; thirdly, to reduce the ratios of the classes, including the repetitive student: it cannot be that children and children who repeat course continue to be invisible to the Teaching Council; and fourthly, we are talking about a specific plan for rural centres, because — as we have said here — specific needs, specific resources. We are not going to remain impatient about the dismantling of public education in the countryside of this country. Fifth, the increase in educational scholarships, appropriate to the student's real needs; we know how much it costs to start the course and, according to that, we adapt the resources that the Galician Union places. And sixth, to promote the freeness of textbooks. A number of points which, as I said, already have an enormous consensus in the educational community, because despite the fact that the Government does not listen to them, the educational community has been talking for a long time. There's a lot of work done that, in our understanding, we have to collect and implement. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. Mr Fernández Gil has the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u51	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, too, to the boys and girls and the teachers who accompany us in the field. Well, we are faced with a Socialist Party motion in which the different groups have often repeated the word "consensus," and the truth is it's a beautiful word to speak about education the word "consensus." So also, on occasion, it is necessary to reveal or remove that mask to those who talk about consensus, but who really have no interest in reaching consensus. Mrs Chao was speaking, because now those of En Marea, as I see in the interventions that took place during the morning, are very much set up in that dream speech of affirming an agreement which is not well known where he is or whether he exists or not, because he does not really exist, because for now, the Congress of Deputies has not spoken. But we are not so much of talking about the dream, but we are more of talking about reality, and you want to sell a non-existent consensus. But, on the contrary, do you know what if they agreed on in Marea and the Socialist Party a few months ago? Then there was a consensus: in dilapidating the social and political pact for education, in putting on the ground the work of a subcommittee at the Congress of Deputies who had been working for months to achieve a consensus, and in which tens of observers — who passed through this subcommittee — appeared in different areas. Because they are now calling for the different areas of the educational community to come to an agreement, and at the Congress of Deputies, in this subcommittee, tens of representatives of the different areas of education have been attending: from unions, associations of mothers and parents, teachers, the entire educational community. And you have applied that subcommittee to you -- if you allow me the simile -- the basketball policy: they took all the work of that subcommittee, they did a polotiny and basket in the trash cane. That's the consensus you want to sell to society. It's, of course, a joke; at least, a joke. Because, besides, then there are issues that we obviously cannot accept. Mr. Álvarez says there is no equality in our autonomous community. Mrs. Chao said so too; repeat it over and over again. Hey, you were talking about data, weren't you? Well, I'm going to give you a fact that we've also repeated in this chamber on numerous occasions, and it's just that if for some reason the Greek education system is characterized by its equity. All indicators — both the Ministry and the Pisa report, national and international indicators — point to the Greek education system as the most equitable system of Spanish education systems. Therefore, you insist on denying the evidence over and over again, that what we will do will continue to work again and again to defend that the Greek education system remains the most equitable in the entire state. [[Applause]] You said... that in the end you can't avoid being ironic about certain issues. Because now it turns out that providing everything that has to do with the education system and with the education debate of certainty, as it is to establish a clear and true criterion that they all know for what the closure of a center or the open maintenance of a center is, for you that is not an immutable number, it's a question that can vary, it's a question that can be negotiated. Well, if they want, what we can do is keep centers open even without students waiting for someone to register. That would also be another possibility, wouldn't it? Why not? We could propose that too. If we have already installed in this speech — as I said before — dream country, or dream country, in which we really have nothing to do with efficient resource management or to meet sociological criteria, pedagogical criteria and criteria for the organization and efficient use of resources, then everything is worth, let's leave it that way. Because, another question: they talk about consensus and we are seeing, for example, the amendment of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, called my attention. You know perfectly well that there are bodies in the Autonomous Community, in which the entire educational community is represented, and which have the capacity to decide, debate and opinion on consensus in the educational community. I tell you more: Galicia has a law, which is Law 4/2011, of coexistence and participation of the educational community, which regulates precisely what is the role of all educational community agents in social dialogue and dialogue in relation to education. But of course, if we have bodies that make decisions that are against our interests, what can we do to change this? Well, as to modify the organs, or to create more organs, or to continue to include associations to the infinite, until those organs make the decisions that we are interested in. That's their conception of politics; ours, no. This group has the conception, as I said earlier, of efficient management of resources, commitment to the education community of Galicia, listen to them, work to reorganize the needs and interests of the education system, and ultimately fulfill the commitment — which we have reiterated again and again in this chamber — that this political group has, and that the Government of Greece, which is the commitment to the Greek society. If you want to come to work for an educational consensus within the existing context and work for the needs of the Welsh educational community, welcome. Now, if you want to keep doing demagogy and painting a scenario that has nothing to do with reality, you have to understand that you can't count on it to us. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u52	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Author of the motion, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u53	Thank you again, President. By order of intervention: Mrs Rodil, I thank the support of the Galician Nationalist Block for our motion. We are going to accept the amendment of addition, but not the amendment of amendment; not because of the fact that this collective has no relevance — of course it has — but because it seems to us to singularize it in an unnecessary way with respect to others who should also necessarily be part of that consensus which, of course, will not happen, despite the beautiful word. It's so beautiful the word "consensus" that it puts us in a dream language, that is, we're going more into the dream world than into reality. That's the reality of the People's Party. So I thank you, and I hope you understand our position with regard to this non-singularization. With regard to the amendment of En Marea, Mrs Chao, I am particularly grateful to you for a sentence that you said in your speech, which was to put education at the heart of the debate. Because teaching seems like something that works in an automatic way, that doesn't need proper weight, maintenance and impulse, but it's there. It is therefore very important to place it at the centre of the debate. We cannot accept the amendment, but — I insist — not because we do not agree, of course, that we are, but because it seems to us that it is not a lack of conviction, but a lack of ability to reach a consensus without predetermined positions. I insist: we could subscribe point by point what you put in your amendment, but we understand that's not what we wanted with this motion. Mr. Fernández Gil, if you don't mind, I'm going to talk about education in Galicia, not state government pacts, if you don't mind, because that's what we're here for. What do you want me to tell them? [[Murmurs.]] The reality is mutant, I think the situation is not the same now that a few months ago, and that, of course, is also part of democratic normality. And if not, we change the frame, also by mutual agreement with consensus, and we have another one. [[Murmurs.]] Look, you're talking about pulling the basket out of the trash. Well, as I know, in the basketball, there's no trash can, there's a basket, but well... They're talking about the state of education pact. What happened to you with Philosophy? What did you vote in this plenary on Philosophy in Bachelor's degree? What did they vote in Madrid a week ago? [[Murmurs.]] Something different! [[Applause]] Home! The inclusion as compulsory subject of Philosophy in Bachelor's degree; not in certain modalities of the Bachelor's degree. So things have changed for you, too. Look, I'm going to do a very quick look because if I'm running out of time, and I know I'm not going to end up with it. You were a bit of a reductionist with that argument that we kept the centers open to see if someone came to register. Do you know where that is? In vocational training, in many training cycles that you have in those conditions, waiting to see if any students show up to register and put it into operation. That's reality too. And I'm done, president, with a story. Mrs. Rodil, at the Pedregal Institute in Irimia — which you know — in Meira, a small institute, a school that serves a very important part of the rural of Lugo, there were students who could not study Greek and Latin because they didn't have enough students, because they were two. Look at you! What will two of Ribeira de Piquin or Meira want to study Latin? That's reality too, and that's not unique: that's pragmatism, that's reality. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u54	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. Close the doors, please. Motions vote We begin by voting on the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Lago Peñas. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. on the initiative of Mr. José Manuel Lago Peñas, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the economic and social situation in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 66; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. This motion is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u55	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres. Here I have written that paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the amendment of the Socialist Group are accepted as an addendum and that you have applied for a point vote. [[A Member of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group speaks words which are not perceived.]] He doesn't accept the point vote, so he'll stick to points 6, 7 and 8. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the environmental situation of the Umia River. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u56	Finally, we voted for the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez. It is accepted as an addition amendment to that of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales and that of En Marea is not accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the reduction of educational supply in the municipalities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u57	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with the third point of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and seven other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia before the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries in order to counter the impact of the measures taken by the health authorities on anisakis
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u58	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u59	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Salorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u60	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. During this summer there was a media storm in fish consumption after the health authorities decided to increase to five days the recommendation to freeze the fish before consuming it to reduce the risk of becoming infected with aniseakis parasite after supposed cases of fish contagion were detected that had been previously frozen. Aniseakis is a nematode that parasits fish, and at the eat it can adhere to the walls of the stomach or intestine and produce lesions, in addition to a series of digestive problems that can become very serious. [[Murmurs.]] Anisakiase can only be contracted if you eat fish or parasite cephalopods or with preparations that do not kill the parasite. To avoid it, you have to buy clean fish, without bandages, or clean it quickly, as soon as possible. Cooking, frying, baking or ironing are preparations that destroy the parasite when they reach 60 degrees centigrade temperature for at least a minute throughout the piece. The crustaceans follow the same rules. If you eat raw fish or with preparations that do not kill the parasite, you should freeze it before, the temperature below 20 degrees Celsius, for five days, in three-star refrigerators or more. The presence of aniseakis may occur in certain marine species of habitual consumption such as fish or dove, but also in others such as cod, cabbage, cabal, salmon, sardine, herring, anchovies or other certain crustaceans. Returning to the theme of this initiative, from the very first moment, the sector has considered this alarm to be excessive, indicating that it is an orchestrated and interested campaign that seeks to reduce the consumption of fresh fish on the far side. Although Galicians are minimal or null the cases of this infestation of anisakiase in humans, we are the ones who suffer the most from the messages that speak of this problem. Shipowners, sailors, merchants, practitioners... they're all trying to neutralize, with the tools they've got at their disposal, the fall in the price of the fish along with the decrease in consumption. On the other hand, the Council of the Sea didn't stand with its arms crossed, it took measures from the first moment, in the middle of August, when this media storm came. They started an information campaign through social networks, where it was explained by an explanatory video — I have here the first photo of the video — how to treat the parasite when cooking the fish. In addition, in the Greek media, in relation to the benefits of fish consumption and the anisakis parasite, an advertising campaign was launched both in the press and on radio and television, promoting cod or fish consumption, one of the species most affected by anisakis and with greater impact on the Welsh fleet. We are aware that all these actions were well received by the sector, which thanked all the collaboration, especially when we were faced with a complicated situation for them due to the falling prices of their products in the summer campaign. These campaigns were not in vain proposed to them in the plenary session of the Galician Fisheries Council, and it was the very sector that gave the approval to it, advocating for the simplicity of the message and the positivity of fish consumption. We can't say the same thing about the Central Government, which has been absent in this crisis. We don't know if it's out of the question of this problem that affects the Welsh fleet, or, worse yet, because it's happened in the middle of the summer, getting more than one vacation. We don't know what's worse, but the press itself collected this malaise in a newspaper last August 6th, as it said, "Madrid is still not acting to curb the social alarm for the anisakis," The Voice of Galicia, August 6, 2018. It was a generalized demand, which reflects a serious problem that we should not take lightly or address with a mere press note which may be the beginning of an unstoppable match, and which should make you think about how to communicate these issues. The reality is that once duties have been made from Galicia, the affected fisheries sector claims that it is the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries that develops a communication strategy to counteract the effect of this confusion on the measures taken by the health authorities. Fedepesca held a meeting in mid-July with the General Fisheries Secretary, Alicia Villauriz, in which he was formulated the need for the Government to deal with the communication. This request was also made by the advisor to the Minister Planas on 31 July, during a sectoral conference, and was referred to at a later meeting between the two. Since the ministry they have agreed to work between the central government and the autonomous communities in order to disseminate correct information to the consumer about the benefits of fish consumption to health. They said it would be after August. These campaigns would be very close to responding to the confusion generated by these media storms that seek interests that we don't know about, but what we do know is that they severely affect our fishing sector. Ultimately, consuming fish is completely safe whenever it is purchased by legal marketing channels and compliance with the recommendations of the Spanish Consumer Agency, Food Safety and Nutrition. In any case, August has passed, and almost two months later the national campaign is not yet underway, so the Group of the People's Party wants to present the following non-law proposal: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to demand the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries to develop a communication strategy to counteract the impact this confusion has on the health authorities' actions on anisakis."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Salorio. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u62	Thank you, President. Good morning. Oh, who would tell Pedro Sánchez that he is also responsible for the problem with anisakis! Who was going to tell you! There's another one coming! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] So we've made a amendment that demands that, if there's really concern about the risk of anisakis infection, budgets should be given. And for that we're talking about increasing the value of Program 723A, which has a share of investments on board. And then we'll explain in detail why. In 2017 this match was EUR 1.3 million, and the proposal for this 2019 budget is EUR 100,000, practically what they do is that this match disappears. Important, on-board investments. In addition, we remember that this Program 723A has a 37% execution; out of every 10 euros, 6 are left in the drawer. On the other hand, we make an amendment in which we ask that public media be used to bring these kinds of campaigns into line with the German Government. Because you've talked here about that during the summer of the Galician Union reacts quickly to a social media campaign, but we're wondering if you're really aware of the huge problem we still have in Galicia in the century in which we're, in 2018, of internet connections especially in rural areas. So these kinds of social media campaigns have to regret that they're not coming. There are a lot of people still today who can't connect to the Internet, and therefore these kinds of campaigns don't reach you. What we ask is that public media be used for these issues. Another question that we'd like to clarify before we go into more detail on the investment on board, is to ask for some caution. Because when you talk about the initiation of a campaign as a result of the measures taken by the health authorities, what we wanted to ask is exactly what they mean? What do you mean when you talk about health authorities? Because every time there are intentional campaigns, on the one hand — we do not doubt — that what they really cause is that the consumption of frozen fish is increased or that comes from aquaculture, greatly affecting fresh fish. In fact, in the ports it happened that the fish increased from 5 euros only to 2 euros. There were headlines in the terrible press, like, "the anisakis becomes more resistant and persistent," and even talked about the epidemic. But the truth is, if we go into that news, we see that they're talking about an agency, but that agency isn't exactly a health authority. So we'd ask for caution. The only official competent authority in Spain is the Spanish Agency for Consumption, Food Safety and Nutrition (AECOSAN), which depends on the Ministry of Health, Consumption and Social Welfare. So, rigour and be careful. As far as investments are concerned. Today there are ships that carry on board mechanisms that allow the evisceration of the fish — which is done before it cools or freezes — so that the larvae in the vistas die before they are thrown into the sea. The fish takes out their viscera, throws themselves into the sea, the little ones eat those viscera, then the bigger ones, and then reaches the human. If those larvae die, reduce the risk of infection. For there are mechanisms that have already incorporated some ships in the test phase to prevent or reduce the risk of infection. What's wrong? That if we have budgets where investments on board are EUR 100,000, we can hardly make those investments on board to prevent and reduce precisely that risk of infection. So, and since we're worried about anisakis, we're going to try to actually reduce it with budgets. Because everything you propose, everything you do, if you don't have a budget game associated, it's really a toast to the sun, it's not worth it, because you can't do it, because you don't have an economic backing to carry it out. So, our amendment what you really come to say is this: do you care about anisakis? We're actually worried. Can the risk of anisakis infection be avoided by improving the evisceration process? You can do it! Is it necessary to make investment on board the boats? It's necessary! So budgets; therefore, economic items that allow them to make those investments on board, and so that way, they can reduce the risk of infection. On the other hand, they also use public media when they campaign, because in Galicia -- it's a reality -- there are many points in rural Galicia that still today cannot connect a person to the Internet. Connection is not possible! We understand it's a very minor amendment, very reasonable and therefore they can accept it without any kind of problem. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u64	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. First of all, to say that the question of anisekis parasite seems to us to be a very serious and urgent matter, and that the Council of the Sea seemed to want to circumvent it, since it was our parliamentary group that brought the above issue to the Committee on Fisheries. It makes no sense that Junta assumes no responsibility on this subject and transfers that campaign to the Government of the State, throwing balloons outside, we assume that for interests created in the sectors of intensive industrial aquaculture, which are promoting campaigns — these media storms — that are just counter-information campaigns that appear in the press and in the media that disreport and manipulate, presenting as safe species those of fresh water such as the panga, from which the World Health Organization (WHO) says that its accumulation of antibiotics to avoid high mortality due to the bad conditions in which they live, to food with thought and to high pollution of the waters in which they create the faced fish, gives rise to an important health risk for the population, due to the emergence of allergies and bacteria resistant to antibiotics that use them, causing serious problems in the treatment of human diseases. Nor are the risks of the use of intensive aquaculture salmon, which produces fish with genetic mutations, abnormal levels of fats or the toxicity of an antioxidant called etoxyquin, which can also produce diseases, which is in the pellet with which they are fed. But that's not so much of an interest in communicating it expressly, which demonstrates the origin of this misunderstandings campaign. You say that the cases of contaminants that were announced this summer are rare or null in Galicia, but however, in the GTV this year this problem has appeared on 27 occasions, compared to the 4th of the whole year 2017. What this initiative denotes is what In Marea has already reported: a campaign obviously insufficient, for not even PP spokespersons were able to explain by commission what methods to eliminate aniseakis. A responsible campaign of our government should leave such clear aspects as that controls carried out systematically in ports and on the farthests allow us to discard any fish in which parasites appear. Thus, in the large species coming from the Northern Atlantic wharf, where there could be more anisakis presence: cod, abbotx, cod, carioc, salmon, lura, the viscera on board the ships as soon as they are captured, thus avoiding this situation. In addition, aniseakis only poses a relative risk if raw, marinated or little cooked fish is taken. To avoid anisakiase — aniseakis infection — it is enough to freeze the fish if it is going to eat raw or marinated, such as sushi, ceviche or vinegar, at temperatures of -20 degrees Celsius, a minimum of 24 hours, or about 2 or 3 days if the freezing is done at home, and the possible presence of anisekis parasite is discouraged in the fish that prepares cooking, fried, roast, etc., at temperatures above 60 degrees, as has already been established by the European Union in 1991. Our amendment introduces the need to manage aid to shipowners and introduce anisakis elimination mechanisms on board, as it is high cost and requires a solution. Add, moreover, that the new Secretary of Fisheries, Mrs. Alicia Villauriz, announced in an interview at El Progreso de Lugo on October 6, in response to a campaign to inform the consumer about anisakis, that the minister had committed, on the occasion of his visit to Congemar, which was October 2, 3 and 4, not two months ago, to the launch of an immediate campaign to promote fish consumption. That's why our amendment contains two points. One, which the Union is preparing a new detailed information campaign on consumer issues and which really reaches consumers. And, two, the need to manage aids to introduce new technologies into ships, which means a high cost. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u66	Good morning. I want to express BNG's concern about alarm campaigns through raw fish consumption, and with that the transmission of aniseakis parasite. And I want to shift the concern because these campaigns, of course, we think they're not innocent, they're not casual, they don't give away spontaneously. In order for campaigns of these characteristics to cause the alarm that they cause, that they reach the population and have the effects they seek, that they are none other than that people stop consuming certain species of fish, they have to produce a series of requirements, such as having to be disclosed, they have to be driven, repeatedly repeated in the media; that is, they have to have necessary collaborators, be reproduced, driven, to produce those effects on the consumer, which are none other than producing that alarm and that they stop consuming fish. And which fish does it stop consuming? For it is precisely the fish of the Greek producers. Stop consuming the fish from the Greek ships. Casualty? Well, I'm going to let it not look like a chance because it always rains on wet. The species that cease to consume are precisely those that fish our ships. There's a drop in prices of more than 50%, some species almost cease to have a price. There's a fall in sales, and what's more serious, than months later those prices, those sales, they don't get recovered, and in some species the damage is practically irrecoverable. There's nothing more to go to our fish squares and see how certain species, in another highly appreciated hour, are practically still without price. And what's the most serious of the situation? For the space that leaves that species empty, let's put the most paradigmatic fish, but we can talk about others, is occupied by other species. That is, that space that leaves our species on the market is occupied by other species; indeed, by alien species, by frozen fish, by species of fish-fishing, by aquaculture fish. Casualties? I insist that, of course, I don't believe in chance. You don't have to be an expert to establish a relationship between those who benefit and those who get hurt by this discredit in the campaigns we're talking about. That there is a parasite in the raw fish, the anisakis, is obvious. That there's a problem if you consume raw, it's also obvious. That this is something that comes from old age, it's also obvious. And that there are campaigns every time to shake the market, it's also obvious. That there are ways to prevent it from having health consequences? You too. What are they simple to do? You too. The question is why there is no greater involvement on the part of administrations in informing the population, for avoiding this alarm and for avoiding, above all, this discredit for the Greek species. That's a question we'd have to answer. Almost a month ago, in the 8th Committee on Fisheries, this Parliament approved an initiative unanimously, on behalf of En Marea, which led it to the committee, in which Galician Union was urged to start a campaign immediately and engage. Of course, a month later, I didn't see that implication from the Council. I haven't seen her, Madam, I haven't seen her, no matter how much you move your head. And what I think is really sad is that we almost reduced this question to the question of competences, to see who is more involved, whether the Galician Union or the Central Government. What I think is quite sad is that in the middle of what's caught are the producers, it's our productive sector, which once again is what's left on nobody's land. Together, we know that for Madrid our fishing sector is a witness issue, it's not an important issue, and in the middle of what's left are prices and sales that don't recover. Of course, BNG has not done enough for either of the administrations. You have to dump yourself in a much more efficient way and move to society that there are simple and effective systems to consume fresh fish without it being a risk, but, of course, for that, you have to dump yourself in moving it to the population and prevent that space that leaves the consumption empty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u67	Get some rest, get some rest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u68	Thank you. [[Applause]] The author group of the non-legislation proposal, Mrs. Salorio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u69	Thank you again, President. I'm going to start with the amendments. Mrs. Toja, programme 723A is aimed at improving competitiveness and improving the quality of fisheries and aquaculture production. It's focused on aid to the transformation of aquaculture and improvements on board. It is based on the granting and execution of company help, not always easy to execute. The Council of the Sea has expanded by 3.9 the funds allocated to this programme in the 2018 budgets with respect to 2017; and the amount has increased by 36% since 2014. It must be remembered that PSOE registered partial amendments last year that demanded to reduce the counts of several games in this program by 23.7 million, 37% of the total, and now they want to increase it and execute it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] With regard to the increase in economic contributions, we are working on projects such as PP07 Lugo, PP04 de Vigo, or Anfaco from the port of Celeiro, to reduce the presence of anisakis in a double way of support. Supporting improvements on board, in which these types of projects fit, and pointing out that the relative improvements on board, in the 2016 call, were allocated EUR 900,000, with 66 applications submitted. And in the 2017 call for €272,000, presenting 52 requests. In both years, absolutely all the requests submitted that met the requirements were met, and for this year this department has dedicated a million euros. With regard to the amendment of En Marea, Mrs. Torregrosa, I wanted to say that you are going to 33 revolutions per minute and we are going to 45. We've been running this campaign, while others have been holding arms for two months. You lay down duties for those who do them, and for those who don't, you invite them. They start to see the plum. To those who used to have a solution for everything, now they see that if they had the ideas. [[Applause]] What you're presenting in the amendment is not the objective of this LNP. You presented another LNP in commission, ours today was registered before that commission, and we unanimously support it in the decision to demand that we call upon the Spanish Government to be transferred today. The German Government did its homework because it was already doing this they proposed. Now the Central Government wants to prevent you from doing your homework, your co-government. We believe that there are several issues to be raised here before we vote. This proposal was made on 31 July at a meeting with the Minister and before the sectoral conference. You said it was going to be after August, it's been two months late. We understand that August is practically infallible for administration purposes, but Galicia did it even in August and on full vacations, and no large campaigns or complicated messages are being requested. The sector itself called for clarity and simplicity. The board didn't do anything that wasn't sued or evaluated by the sector. You can see who works for, stop and with the sector. With regard to what Mrs Prado said — I did not want to finish these seconds without commenting on it — the campaigns, of course, also seem to us badly intended, so we want to fight them this way, with this GNP. And just remember that our PNL today was registered before the commission, not after. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Salorio. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the processing of the sectoral project of supramunicipal impact of the land of Ence in Lourizán, as well as the demands to be made to the Central Government regarding the extension agreement of the concession adopted on 20 January 2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u71	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u72	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u73	Thank you, President. We're going to talk about the extension of Ence, and then we have to talk about the history of a factory imposed the bayonet blow in the Pontevedra River in 1958, in full frankness. A factory imposed after the blow of BOE and the turning doors in full so-called democracy. And now the People's Party and the Ence want to sell us the so-called environmental pact like the panacea, with a rain of millions for investments in sixty years that is an absolute perverse use of the language, because they tell us about an environmental pact and a biofactory to legalize the occupation of 600,000 square metres of public maritime-terrestrial domain in the Pontevedra River. And the last example of ridicule was that of Mr. Colmenares, director of Ence, who publicly said: "We're going to get a factory that smells, that has no steam visible, that does not release water to the sea and that doesn't make noise." I've come to propose to Ence a new line of products, a new line of cosmetic products: the essence of Ence, odorless, painless too, invisible. It would be a good... I have also in liquid version, it can be steam or liquid. [[Applause]] I don't know, if you want ideas, we can certainly offer you ideas. Don't laugh, the story is sad, as Castelao used to say. This Mr. Colmenares said, "It will be a factory hidden and will not be seen. It's going to be an invisible factory." I don't know if this is Mr. Earl's 6.0 factory or what, but invisible factory, of course, we'll never hear about it. Look, in case they want to pass it on to Ence: we don't want an invisible factory, we want a factory outside the river Pontevedra. We want them to give us back the stream of Pontevedra, this stream of Pontevedra and this cove of Lourizán without Ence. That's what we want, you don't tell Chinese stories like those who want us to sell Mr. Colmenares out of trouble with the complicity of the People's Party, of Mr. Rueda and company. This story of Ence could be called "Let's tell lies, behind it." And this title fits in very well, in addition, the prophet of posterity and his court of copyists and copyists. It could also be called "three prints of treason," because it is a story, of course, of lies and betrayal. Although the reality — which must also be made clear — is that the People's Party has always been maneuvering to consolidate Ence beyond 2018, which was the end date of the concession. He did so at the time of President Fraga, who tried several ways to consolidate the factory. First, link the land to the port of Marín. Then, the sectoral project of supra-municipal incidence. And then, the assault on the Plenty of the Pontevedra Town Hall, the attempt to overthrow the municipal government, which they failed because it is still there, fifteen years later, the municipal government of the BNG, dealing with these attacks of Ence and the Galician Group of the People's Party. Later came the prophet of the post-verity on that memorable date of May 21, 2009, when the Council of the Union met in Pontevedra, and the press headline was: "He will meet with the Ence soon to study his relocation in Pontevedra." And he said — a memorable phrase — "It's not possible to keep Ence in the creek. We're not going to say one thing and do the opposite." Speaks of the prophet of Posvership, Mr. Feijóo. For this sentence, of course, I'd deserve a seat on the board of directors of Ence. Then you, People's Party, Joiner of Galicia, approve the Land Management Guidelines, then the POL in 2011, in the 2012 electoral program promise the factory's disappearance in the current placement. Because you were defending this, too. Now you look very strange, they say that we want to end the industry, but for all these years, in the worst years of the crisis, when there was more trouble of unemployment, you were defending all these issues. They even signed a protocol with Elnosa's own CUP company, to facilitate the exit of the river. Nothing at all. Until the moment of treason came; first in 2013, with the change in the Law of Back as measured by the interests of Ence, and then with the shameful extension of sixty years of 2016, signed by a government in functions with nocturnalness and with alleviation, something absolutely infamous, which once again puts out a People's Party serving the interests of the People's Party of Madrid, the companies of the IBE and the rotational doors, because we know that there were — as we have already said a thousand times — a former environmental manager and a former environmental adviser of the People's Party, who has already... order! With all this, what they did was they gave the company with 373,000 square meters of public domain earned at sea. And we know how the People's Party acted, with lies and treason. And now it's up to him to act on the socialist government and it's taking us too long, he's already worrying about us. On top of that and many other matters of priority for our country are not in the state political agenda because there is no Greek political agenda in Madrid. There is no such thing as reading in the pact signed between the Socialist Party, the Government, and the United We can. There's not a lot of topics that we're interested in, like this one from Ence. And I want to clarify in this regard, and to clarify it to the Socialist Party, which I am sure will come here with a determined discursive line saying that the extension granted — if I have listened to it other times — is not firm. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is a reversible decision, it is a reversible decision, because they are pending to resolve and respond to various resources and initiatives, including a repository requirement of the Pontevedra Council. They could do it on their own, because if the PSOE said it was a decision made by a government in office, and with that alleviation, he could do it on his own and review that decision. But also has a repository requirement for the Pontevedra Town Hall that is not responding to the table since 2016, they can. And they can also cling to the litigation-administrative resource before the National Audience. As a result, there is no need to wait for a sentence. There are at least three ways to avoid waiting for that sentence. And of course, then there's the table proposed by PSOE in Pontevedra. I'm curious that you make this proposal from a dialogue table, not the government, which could do the government perfectly, but representatives of the Socialist Party. We look like a smoke curtain to make time. However, there is no problem if that decision is revoked, if that decision is annulled, to sit down and talk about what to do, how to recover those lands. What happens is that the Government of Madrid, the Government of the PSOE, must act courageously and act consistently with respect to the positions it has defended over the past few years by voting in this Parliament, voting in the plenary session of the Council of Pontevedra and being consistent with those votes. And we want to go further, too, because the Land Management Guidelines and the Coastal Management Plan are land management instruments approved by the Government of the previous Board and binding for the sectoral project of supra-municipal incidences, which, although approved by the Board in 2013, was only effective after a judgement by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia in 2012, therefore after these territorial management instruments. And these land management instruments say that there can't be a factory there, that you have to get those land back, that you have to re-establish those land, that you have to do an area of environmental and landscape improvement, that you don't have a factory there like you are now. Therefore, we must paralyze and discard the modification of the sectoral project that plans to consolidate and perpetuate the factory there with the construction of a biomass plant that will be supposed to be done! the construction of a 50-metre-high building, in the lands where the factory is, the equivalent of a 16-story building, and a 70-meter fireplace, with an environmental and landscape impact and also with a clear impact on forest policy and forest management of the environment, because we already know what biomass plants bring about instead of energy crops and raw material supply needs. What we are asking for with this initiative is that we approach and begin to think seriously about the reallocation, restoration and reorganisation of these land as the POL establishes. We ask them to comply with the rules that you yourself have approved. And now that the disappearance of Elnosa is under way there, we have a historic opportunity to put an end to a defeat of the river and the environment initiated in franchise and then continued to very recent times through the extension signed by Mr. Rajoy. And we have the opportunity to start a new stage of respect through the middle, reconciliation with the surroundings and return Pontevedra to what rightly belongs to him, which is this laugh free of a contaminant complex like that of Ence-Elnosa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u74	Thank you, Mrs Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u75	Thank you, President. Good day again. Mr. Bará, I'm a little surprised by your tone. I thought I was going to use the same tone as Mayor Lores yesterday with President Feijóo, who was a very kind tone, and you come here overly belligerent with the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] Even if you know my speech, I'll try to explain it in the Chamber with my words. I'm going to repeat a sentence: "One can't come to this House asking for the closure of the Ence" that we just heard just fifteen minutes ago. But of course, President Feijóo came here promising in 2009 and in 2012 not that the factory would leave where it is, but that the grant of Ence would end in 2018. Those were his electoral promises in writing in his electoral programs. Well, Mr. Tellado, they're going to take you out of your ears again and Mr. Feijóo won't be able to enter this House tomorrow, according to you. [[Applause]] And it wasn't the only one who voted, it's that this whole House unanimously voted a transaction to get Ence out of Pontevedra before the year 2018! So you guys, who have been repeating it a lot since then, won't be able to come in either. The truth is that the issue of Ence is a recurring issue in Parliament because it is an essential issue not only for Pontevedra, but also for Galicia. And that's why I think that, although you already know my speech Mr Bará, something I'll have to say. It's since 1959 for a concession and could be until July 2018. When it was agreed by President Feijóo where I said, I say Diego, Mariano Rajoy arrived and approved that law supposedly of protection of the coast in 2013, and established for all possible concessions seventy-five more years, but required a favourable and decisive report of the environmental organ of each autonomous community where the concessions were. The Government of the Union issued a report which was a paripé. We asked him several times and first former counsellor Agustín Hernández said that report was mandatory, which is not true, it wasn't because the law doesn't. Then he changed and said he was decisive. But then it turned out that he was neither determinant, nor preceptive, nor anything at all, because all they said was that Ence complied with the parameters. I thought this, more or less, of occupation. The factory asked for 60 more years. Internally, they told us live: "Thank God you didn't order seventy-five, because they know if you asked them, they would also grant them." That they were surprised at those sixty years, and if they knew it, they ask for seventy-five; and they did not ask any more because the law did not permit it; and it does not allow it. Rajoy's government in office, by delegation of the Minister of Environment to the Director-General for Sustainability of the Coast and Sea, granted sixty more years. It's going to be there in principle, legally, until the year 2073. And it's also curious that in this House you have, because you have adopted it, a law of transparency and good governance, and President Feijóo voted that law to limit the management of a government in function to the order of ordinary affairs. Seica Ence is an ordinary matter! Ordinary because it repeats itself very much in this House, perhaps. So we're going to have Cence in Lourizán for 114 years. It's cheap, for 61 million euros, that's what's agreed upon; but it's not an ordinary matter for the 20,000 people in Pontevedra who went out to the street demanding that this extension didn't exist. The curious thing is that this law of the year 2013, the Law on the Protection of the Coastal, was referred to the Congress of Deputies for unconstitutionality by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. He appealed to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court said it's constitutional and it changed some things. And that decision of extension, with the silence of the Government of Feijóo, resorted to the Council of Pontevedra and the Association of Defense of the Rhine in litigation-administrative resource, and there we are in the National Audience with that resource. And we have to wait for that resource to be resolved because the opposite is preemptive. Tell the state attorney to prevarice, or tell the government to prevarice, we won't. We believe in the independence of judicial bodies, we believe and practice that independence, because it is true that there is a Coastal Management Plan, there are some Land Management Guidelines, but there is one thing called the Spanish Constitution, which in article 117 says that the Judiciary is independent, although some people don't like it; but we do like it. [[Applause]] And then there's this repository requirement that was presented by the Pontevedra Town Hall. I'm going to read you an article of the Law on Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction, article 44. He says that when it comes to administrations between themselves, one can't interfere with the remedy, so one goes to this requirement — and I'm going to read it in Spanish because it's as I have it, because it's hard to find law of contentious jurisdiction in Greek. "One administration asks another to intervene in litigation-administrative action. You may require it before you have to cancel or revoke the act." This would be the case of the county. But it says, point 3: "The requirement shall be understood to be rejected if within the month following that of its receipt the applicant will not answer it." That means that this requirement that came to the Government of Mariano de Rajoy when he was president of the Government can no longer be answered because he is already rejected, because he says it to the Law of the Jurisdiction of the Dispute-Administrative. Not that the Government of Pedro Sánchez has to answer that requirement, is that they have already been told not to do so in silence. So that requirement doesn't have to be answered because it's out of the question, it doesn't exist anymore, the only thing that exists -- it's finished -- are the courts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u76	Thank you. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u77	But we are also in favour of dialogue, so we propose to ask the Government to accept this table of dialogue that is proposed and that we also propose in our initiatives, together with the Administration of the State, the Government of the Union, the Council of Pontevedra, Ence and all the groups that consider themselves interested. And after the judicial records are settled, the judicial procedure in the National Court, from there we can talk about the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u79	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. On January 20, 2016, the date of the last betrayal with the Cence of President in functions M. Rajoy, who was recently expelled from his office by systemic corruption of his party. This President-in-Office has decided, contrary to his powers — whether he should or should not do a Government in office — because there was no urgency, because there were two years left for the end of the concession, to give 60 more years of concession to the Enc. Give zero cost, with no counterbalance. Even so, the company, shortly after that extension, decided to fire dozens of workers, those who used as shields and as an excuse to stay there. He didn't shake his wrist to fire dozens of workers immediately after the concession was granted. And the People's Party, which also uses the workers' mantra, didn't say a word, shut up and hid his head. These are the businesses of the People's Party: benefit to those from above and to the corrupt ones, harming citizenship. Nothing new. The irregular extension is a decision that goes against the POL and against the Welsh DOTs, against the regulations that both the government group and the Galician Union have an obligation to defend, but they hide their heads in front of the interests of Ence. The irregular extension also goes against that manifested by all the groups that we are part of this House, even of the People's Party, who, as it has already been said, committed to withdrawing the plant from the river Pontevedra if we won the elections of 2012. It also goes against the desire of citizenship, which has manifested itself very largely in favor of ending this concession and regaining the laugh. And it is against what benefits Galicia environmentally, socially and economically. So the question is obvious: why did Mr. Rajoy and the People's Party decide to give such a gift to a company, knowing all the prejudices and existing consensus? And the answer is also very easy: the rule of the People's Party's governments; the political-entrepreneurship; corruption; the logic of the neoliberalism of amicables; the privatization of benefits and the socialization of losses; the rotational doors. In short, corruption: the use of institutions to place them in the service of private interests against collectives. You just have to see where Isabel Tocino or Carlos Del Álamo is — impressionable and fundamental for privatization at the company's balance price — and see how many dividends are sharing in the board of directors of the Ence these great experts in the manufacture of paper pulp. All we have to do is look at the relationship between shareholders and managers of the company with leaders of the People's Party, dangerous friends that use institutions to do with spoils at the cost of producing poverty, environmental destruction and also job destruction. In view of this situation, we must put every effort to reverse this decision. The People's Party must abandon the mammoth and be consistent with the position it defended in the past, in which it was committed to removing the factory from the cove of the Praceres because it is harmful there for the economic and social development of the district of Pontevedra River. The Galician Union and the Government Group must be consistent with the laws and regulations. We know they don't get used to it, but we have an obligation to demand it from them. The POL and the DOTs are about to fulfill them, and the two regulatory frameworks force the Galician Union to work to remove from the beaches of Praceres the infrastructures that are found there, retrieve the land and re-fill the cove, and not do everything else, which is what you are doing. And we have to demand — as I say — that they comply with this German rule. That is your duty as parliamentarians in this vote. You can't vote against an initiative that aims for the Galician Union to comply with its regulations, to comply with the DOTs and POLs, if you want to seem moderately serious. And we ask the Socialist Party also, and we ask you again, to be consistent with your exhibition, to comply with your commitment to withdraw the Cence from the Pontevedra River, to review the irregular extension as President Sanchez has committed himself and to do everything necessary, absolutely everything necessary, and you will have to have us on his side for this. Below the factories are the beaches, below the factories is the wealth for the district of the river Pontevedra, under the factories there are hundreds of jobs. Get out of the line to fight the corruption of the People's Party! Get out of the way for the environment, for the health, for the job, and why it's fair! Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u80	Thank you, Mr. Cal. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Very good morning. Mr Bará, you still don't understand that the provisions of the POL and the DOTs at no time command the closure of the company, but only establish the arrangement that will lay down those lands for the day when they are empty, but do not establish that company has to leave. In fact, the People's Party and the President Feijóo at the time, we said -- and I also said -- that in 2018 I had to leave the factory. But why? Because it wasn't possible for him to continue beyond 2018 because the law didn't allow it; and you don't know, but we respect the laws. Then, as you well said, there was a legislative change and the law allowed it. The company asked for it, and a technical decision granted it. So you try to confuse the situation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You bring a proposal in which in several paragraphs you pose several things, but in the end, it would be easy to say that what you ask is the closure of the company!, that doesn't say, does not use the word shut down. You use it here, but it's a lot of times to ask for the lock. And I'm telling you one thing: the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Act required the industrial facilities like the one in Ence to have environmental authorization before 30 October 2007, and the Government of Galicia has first granted that environmental authorization. And it wasn't the People's Party, it was a government where the BNG and the Socialist Party were. An authorization that the subsequent governments have only done was to check, validate and verify that it was met by the company. And we, Mr Bará, have no reason to doubt the legality of that decision that the Government made in which you were. That's why if Ence kept working after 2008 it's because the government of the BNG and the Socialist Party have declared that it did comply with environmental standards. Then I'll do them and I'll keep doing them now, because that's what the Galician Union is doing. When you brought out a few bottles here, I, from your background, thought you'd invite us to some Cuban mojitos, who knows enough about it. But what I can tell you is that these products you bring are sure to meet the environmental parameters your government gave you in 2008. You want to go through history as the new Che Guevara, but here, to walk home, for us, will still be Che Bara, not Che Guevara. [[Applause]] They ask to put an end to a defeat of the flood in Lourizan during franchise and to continue afterwards. I'd like to point out to you that you can continue the sentence: "...perpetrated during franchise and then continued by a government of the BNG and the Socialist Party that gave you the integrated environmental authorization." And that doesn't mean that I'm considering them as heirs of franchise, but the reality is, if Ence kept working, it was for his environmental authorization; and we have no problem in completing it by saying that later it was found that this authorization was met. [[Murmurs.]] But say one thing, Mr Bará, these days the Government of Greece and I think that also the parliamentary groups, all of us, are very concerned because 400 jobs are in danger in Alcoa. Just these days you don't have anything better than bringing here a proposal to close a company that works for 400 people. Besides, there are 400 posts that are not in danger and the company is compromising investments for the next few years. But those who are not in danger, you want to put us in danger. The truth is, we want to save the 400 jobs that are in danger in Alcoa, and the BNG, what we want is that 400 other jobs are in danger today that are insured. That's BNG's policy! [[Applause]] And I'm not going to qualify for that proposal because it qualifies for itself. I wonder how it's possible that while we're trying to avoid the closure of a company that depends on 400 families, the BNG brings to Parliament a proposal to close another company with more than 400 employees. Can you be more insensitive and insolidious to the Greek workers, Mr Bará? What is the industrial policy of BNG in Galicia? [[Murmurs.]] I think it's the great incognito that we all have in Galicia: at what point is the industrial policy of BNG. The goal of the People's Party and the Government of Galicia is to create jobs, and the goal of the BNG is clear that it seems to be destroying it, where there's jobs to destroy it. I trust they come to the common sense and work with the Galician Union, with the German Government, to create more jobs. And the Socialist Party's position is very curious. They used to talk about closing Ence too, but now, as they are in the Government and they can decide to cancel that extension, they say, no, no, careful, that this is under the judicature. I'm really glad that the Socialist Party now respects the laws and respects the judicial decisions, because we are recriminal when we appeal to questions that are under the judicature and say no, that this depends on the Government. I'm glad you finally realize, and I think it's very serious for you to admit that there are subjudiced issues that can't be touched by a political decision. But they also ask for a dialogue table which is an euphemism, because in the end what they're asking at the bottom is the closure. That's what you're asking, Mrs Vilán. And the company committee in Ence has already told them that they don't want any dialogue tables, they don't want to change their location, they want to follow where they are because they have insured jobs and the company will continue to work, making investments and distributing more than 3 million a year into social groups in Pontevedra, which never did any Government of the Socialist Party or the BNG. And it's already 6 million, because we've been there for two years. Look, I don't know about you, but we, like we do with Alcoa, are with the workers. And I'm telling you another thing, Mrs. Vilán, to leave more than 400 families out of work, there's no need for a table, which is to have very little heart.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u82	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u83	Or rather not having a heart. But the People's Party is about to create work. We're looking for how to save jobs, you're looking for how to close factories. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Each party has its own ideals, ours is to create jobs and itss is to destroy them. And the BNG and the rest of the opposition is very well explained: unemployment and ruin for all the Greeks. That is the industrial policy, unfortunately, of Galicia's opposition. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] They still come with proposals, but of course, with proposals to close factories and destroy work does not contain the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u84	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u85	The truth is, Mr. Moreira just made here a paperboard, a real paperboard!, an example of demagogy that had not been heard here for a long time. And you, Mr. Moreira, are the same Mr. Moreira as in 2015, before the Minister of Environment at that time of the People's Party, addressed her — not a video that circulates around the networks — in a submissive and tactical way, asking her: Please, Minister, just leave the factory here! You were the same Mr. Moreira that asked him to be sensitive to Pontevedra! [[Applause]] It was you! [[Applause]] What a tough face! [[Applause]] Let's throw it away! [[Applause]] I'm the masters of lies and treason, the prophet of posterity, and you. And I'm going to clarify — because you seem not to read the rules that the People's Party approves — what the Territorial Management Guidelines say and what the POL says. They say they plan to move to another location of that facility and land recovery, and create an area of improved landscape and environmental, through a management plan of these lands, after the factory exits. It clearly provides for the exit of the factory. By the way, they passed those rules and that position in the worst times of the crisis and you asked for the exit of the factory there; and now they defend everything else. That's the credibility of the People's Party! Of course, none, no credibility! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, of course, you're going to tell us now with all that tough face that it was a political decision to change a law according to the interests of a company, it's worth it! You're all right, Mr. Moreira! It was a political decision and I also assumed the worst contamination of ENCE. The worst contamination of ENCE isn't that of Pontevedra's creek, it's not that of the air, it's not the danger it poses to the surroundings, it's the contamination of the state sewer network, the contamination of the spinning doors. That's the worst plague of ENCE! [[Applause]] And, Mrs. Vilán, of course, you are now ruling in Madrid. One thing is preaching and another is wheat. They now rule in Madrid and must act with coherence, with responsibility and, above all, with courage, defending now what they defended here, in this gallery, and also in the Full Hall of Pontevedra. That is to have political courage and to be consistent with the positions that have been defended so far, and not come in trouble. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We know what the position of the People's Party is, but of the Socialist Party, who now have the ball on their roof, we expect something else. And they have recent writings from the Council of Pontevedra, addressed to the President of the Government and also to the Minister of Energy Transition, asking them for a solution to this issue......that there are them outside the judiciary, they know it perfectly well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You can review that decision perfectly, you can meet the requirement of the Pontevedra Town Hall or you can go into the contentious way to avoid precisely the continuity of that resource before the National Audience. So take courage, act consistently, and take steps to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u86	The amendment? Don't you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u87	No, no, no, no. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u88	Thank you, Mr Bará. As you will know, Proposition No. 6650 has been withdrawn. So we are now debating the one that appears in fourth place, which is a non-law proposition with a very long statement that I'm going to summarize because it goes all over the plague of the humble Vespa and certain actions that must be done in this regard. It's an enunciation of one and a half pages. Then, as you all know, I won't read it. [[Murmurs.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. by Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco and Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia aimed at the official declaration as the plague of the West Vespa in the autonomous community, as well as to address the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food to review the version approved by the State Commission for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity of 14 November 2014 and by the Sectoral Conference on the Environment on 16 April 2015 called Strategy for the Management, Control and Possible Eradication of the Asian Birds or Black Birds and to transfer to European institutions the urgency of the environmental situation that is happening in Galicia to approach within the European Union and define a Community strategy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u89	There is an amendment tabled by the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea and another tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u90	Mr. Pérez Seco has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today we are going to address again a problem already known to all, a problem that is a major concern: the proliferation of an exotic or invasive species that is signifying a serious prejudice to our environment, to our environment, to the different species, and also to the development of human life in the territory. We're talking about the Chinese Vespa and its definitive settlement in Galicia. He's been here in Galicia for five years. Since he began to detect, it's been five years, and given his ability to adapt and expand, this species has been spreading throughout the territory of our community. It spread rapidly through our community, and by the year 2014 – according to data from the Galician Union – there were a total of 69 municipalities affected with children: Lugo, with 17 Ourense, with 1; Pontevedra, with 22; and A Coruña, with 29. Currently, and according to available data at the Galician Council in October 2018, there are already 254 municipalities affected with children, where Lugo has 57; Ourense, 70; Pontevedra, 46; and The Coruña, 81, of which, more than 55 found to have more than 100 children within the boundaries of its municipalities. To demonstrate its expansion, we show you the maps on the Galician Joint page. This is the end of 2014. [[Mr. Pérez Seco shows some graphics to his lords.]] It's only seen that the Navy was shining, the north of the Coruña and the south of Pontevedra had children. Data from December 31, 2016: almost the entire province of Lugo, La Coruña and part of Pontevedra affected. And the latest data, from October 15, 2018, where virtually all the municipalities of Galicia are affected. The Chinese Vespa has arrived, installed, occupied a space and is attacking, with quite worrying results, especially bees, which are their priority, and, consequently, honey production, as well as fruit trees; productive activities in rural areas and hence economic activity as a second economy or as a complementary economy, or in any case as a major, threatened and at risk. It's such a big adaptation that Vespa vestina is attacking even other crops that have not been evaluated here or are not known for now, but in other areas itself. For example, it is known that the Vespa mint has eaten up to grapes, which can also mean a danger to the production of grapes and wine, which for our community can also be a major concern. Even it seems that some of the colonies have adapted their diet to eating fish, which I suppose will be a conjunctural issue. For all this, it is clear that it is a real plague, and that is why in our proposal we ask the Council of Galicia, because it has delegated the competences in the field of the environment and in the field of the rural environment, to make the declaration of the plague, because it is up to it. The declaration of punishment will carry with it a number of measures and procedures that homogenise and allow a specific struggle against the proliferation and extension of this scourge. This initiative is a proposal to provide solutions and to allow an effective fight against the Tiensin Vespa. In 2015, the Ministry of Agriculture approved a strategy for the management, control and possible eradication of Asian opium poppy or black bean, which consists of control strategies and guiding criteria. Three years later it is shown that it was not correct, so it was not enough, and that's why we ask for your review, because it won't serve anything Galicia acts in isolation and uncoordinated against Vespa tantaine if they don't do it to other communities that are also affected. The ability to adapt to climatology is such that it can cope with harsh winters and even breaks the barrier of height in the municipalities of our community, so you can see a change in habits, uses or how to extend and adapt to the territory of the Tienna Vespa. When the weed arrived in Galicia, it only built the children in the trees, and the danger was reduced, because to reduce an attack or to tear down the tree or remove the active boy. But after last spring, which was colder and rainier than usual, this has now caused the attacks of the mint towel to occur when their nest is attacked voluntarily or unintentionally. This year they settled under the roofs of the alpendres, on the wall of a supermarket, on the corner of a farm, or even on a hill, with part of the nest under the ground, looking for the climate conditions in which they develop, a scenario that was previously residual or where children did not exist directly. That's why, not knowing where a nest can be, it's normal to go through situations that unfortunately have passed, which puts us in front of the stage of a species that is very adaptable to the territory. For us — and I hope that for you too — it is a call for attention because this is a problem with a difficult solution, but, of course, what needs to be done. Child withdrawal is being done for different staff. On the one hand, children are taken from the municipalities that collaborate with the Galician Union, in others it is the Middle Rural, in others it is the Environmental Council, in others the GES, in other civil protection, in others the firefighters, in others the mayor himself or mayor with staff from the municipality, and also children the apicola professionals are removed. Another fact of Vespa's current situation is that in the last year it was behind the emergencies linked to the prevention of risks, fires and rescues, with approximately 30%, responsible for 20% of the calls to 112. They are very revealing data of the magnitude of this plague, but yet many neighbors and neighbors who by their delay in the withdrawal of children do not call 112, but directly the municipalities and associations, so the number of calls could increase and make it difficult for 112 to function well. So far, an avespa attacked a person wasn't common, but, as we're seeing in the media, more and more cases are being danced in our community, so the health of our neighbours and neighbors is also in danger of this species. I am well known to those who have died this year by the bite of a humble Vespa, and from here our condolences to the families. I believe that this deserves to be strictly and seriously addressed, therefore, this proposal, which is constructive and that the only thing it wants is for the Galician Union — which has competence and capacity — to declare the Vespa as pest and to recognize what is happening, because it is a plague. And we don't say it, but they say it to beekeepers, fruit growers, carpenters, etc., professionals who know matter. Let Junta act to eradicate or try to minimize the proliferation of this species as much as possible, which is not worth an attitude of having nothing to do, we're not going to end it, whatever it has to happen, because it gives the feeling that it's what's happening. So today from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia we present the following non-legislative proposal: "The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to: 1. To declare officially the plague of Vespa torments in our autonomous community, with the consequent economic and professional injection that this implies. 2. To address the Ministry for the Ecological Transition to review the version approved by the State Commission for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity of 14 November 2014 and the Sectoral Conference on the Environment of 16 April 2015, known as the Management Strategy, Control and Possible Eradication of Asian Vespoon or Black Vespa. 3. To transfer to European institutions the urgency of the environmental situation that is happening in Galicia, and to approach within the European Union to define a Community strategy." Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u92	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u93	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The yellow-legged turtle spreads all over the Greek territory without the Rural Councillory being able to face it. Already in 2014 said the spokesman for the Socialist Party, according to data from the Board itself, that there were 69 municipalities affected with children. Today, according to the latest available data from Galician Council itself, in August 2018 we have 227 municipalities affected. Today we see with good eyes this non-legislative proposal of the Galician Socialists in which it is requested that the yellow-legged tart be declared officially declared as a pest. From En Marea we have recorded dozens of questions and initiatives in which we have repeatedly asked to curb the proliferation of this species, which we must call pest and invasion, because the emerging social alarm is fully justified. There is a committee, what have you done so far? Society doesn't know its results; we don't know if it's because they're not good and they don't come up on the table. Civil society has no information. This commission is not counting on the professionals and professionals in the sector. We consider it crucial, as the sector does, the need for a single body where all the knowledge and methods of struggle are shared. However, the current follow-up commission is not being used to give effective answers, and for example associations and the apiculture sector are missing. And then comes the phrase of the million, that of the former rural councillor, Mrs. Vázquez, who tells us that this species has come to stay, so we have to learn to live with it. But this phrase Mrs. Counselor also said it when the potato's elbow came. The result is known to all of us in this House. But this phrase Mrs. Counselor also said it when the beekeeper's auspicious arrived, today extended throughout the Greek geography. Galicia needs a team of researchers and researchers, in collaboration with beekeepers, to put a stop to the tart; and we have them. The problem is the dismantling of the centers of research dedicated to these programmes due to a lack of budget. Studies that have been conducted so far on the environmental and economic impact make it manifest that they pose a clear threat to biodiversity; it displaces native species; it causes great damage in the agricultural sector; it causes great damage in the fruit and beekeeping sector; it causes deaths. The situation is getting worse as time goes on, and we have to look for urgent measures, since the current situation does not allow any longer delay. We need all the means and resources to curb the progress of the harvester. There are measures to put a stop to it: research, preventive struggle, creation of a single body of management, disclosure. In research it is necessary to intensify this to know more fully the behavior of the yellow-legged turtle from a biological and scientific point of view. In this sense, one of the essential lines that the Administration should push and which it is not doing is studies aimed at discovering a pheromone or other substances that are harmless to the environment, but which can cause the death of Vespa colonies without causing damage to ecosystems, thus betting on their biological struggle. Preventive combat. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment must assume the task of trapping as one of the control strategies cited for the yellow leg tart. Creating a unique management body. The competition for the management of the fight against the plume must be assumed by a single specialized body on the subject that unites all these knowledges and methods of struggle that arise. And, if not, disclosure. Faced with a lack of knowledge about a species of recent entry into Europe, and due to the complications that are generating in the areas of agriculture and forestry, health and citizen security, there is a need to disseminate information about this species as widely as possible. Citizen information on the biological, food and behavioural cycle in the Asian avespa will help manage a struggle in which it is necessary to count on the support of society. And from there the amendment presented today in Marea, where we ask to increase the material, personal and economic means of the projects that investigate the plague of the yellow-legged turtle, in order to find the best techniques to fight against it. And why do we make this addition? Because we think from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea that it is the obligation of the Council of the Rural Environment to put an end to this and other plagues and not make the Galician society resign itself to have to live with them. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u94	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u95	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The Chinese arrived in France in 2004, and is now in eight European countries and, within Spain, in eight communities. Although for people this species is no more harmful or more harmful than the native avespa, the damage that is fundamentally causing in the hives, mainly for beekeeping, and also for the environment, are in fact serious and are being a threat that since the first day of Galicia is being cut off. I'm a threat, and we all perceive it that way. In fact, it is common among society to refer to it as a plague. But we have to say that we refer to it as a plague from a semantic point of view, heeding what the Royal Galician Academy dictionary says in its third sense, when it says that plague is: "A large amount of something harmful that affects people, animals and, in particular, agriculture." But legally, Mr. Pérez Seco — you know very well — legally cannot be declared a plague, as it is, for example — or it has been — the paw of the potato. And it can't be because there's only one law at the state level, which is that all autonomous communities have to be reached, a law passed in 2002, which says that "plague is a harmful organism of any species, race or plant or animal biotype or pathogen, harmful to plants or plant products." And Asian axhead — you know very well — is not considered to be a harmful organism basically for plants or vegetable products by no applicable legislation. And if you know her, I ask her to put her in front of her. You've been walking this petition all summer across Galicia knowing that it's not possible, that legally it's not possible. And if it is approved here today that a plague will be declared the only thing that I would be doing is that in practice nothing would be done. It's just a political joke, a toast to the sun, and here's what it's about to solve the problems to the Greeks and to the Greeks, essentially in this case to beekeepers and beekeepers, who threaten their hives. That's why since the Unity of Galicia in 2012, no more knowledge has been gained of the arrival of the plague, control measures and information and training measures have been initiated, in collaboration with the municipalities, in collaboration with the beekeepers and in collaboration, from the very first moment, with the university. In 2014, Vespa's plan of control has already been created, and you ask the municipalities to join the same as they do. There are 122 right now. I'm sorry, today 125, because 3 of Ourense province just joined this very morning. To say that the Galician Union is also working in collaboration with the national strategy that concerns itself, and where all autonomous communities are. And also with the regulations coming from the European Community. So he's doing everything he's doing at European level and what the research is going to tell him. By the way, to insist once again that these investigations say that it should be cheated above all spring, but it is not good to make a massive trap, as it has been claimed here on several occasions. Well, of all that work, of all that collaboration that has been done over the last three years, just by giving a data, Mr. Rodríguez, because you said nothing was done, that you haven't been informed, that you haven't been trained, that you haven't done anything... pure demagogy! To say there were 34 courses, with 1,329 technicians who received training. In addition, 527 individual protective equipment, 167 stakes and 13,267 traps were delivered. They retired only this year over 17,500 children, half of them in the province of Coruña, and over 200,000 queens were captured. There are information campaigns and training campaigns, as we've already said, and one thing you were talking about here, Mr. Rodríguez, the college agreements. Good news. You know, even if you don't want to hear it, even if you don't want to remember it, you're working with the University of Vigo, the University of Santiago and various research teams. You do know, and here the studies were brought. But in addition, on 19th of this month, they have just told the Galician Board that a project has just been approved, involving 30 research centres from different European countries, with an investment of 1.9 million euros, to investigate the control of the plume. So I think today we have to congratulate all the Greeks because we're going to have one more mechanism for research, to see where it leads us, and to keep moving forward to minimize those effects of the mint. So we cannot approve, Mr. Seco, this first point, and that is why we are presenting an amendment so that if we would agree fundamentally with the second point in its entirety and with the third point in its entirety. But at the third point, when you say that the Union is moving to European institutions so that a Community strategy is put in place, we see two inconcretes that I suppose would be wrong, because, on the one hand, there is already a strategy, a strategy in which Spain is participating, and in which Galicia is also following these indications...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u97	...so this already exists. And secondly, it cannot be the Council of Galicia who is addressing the European Community on this subject because it has to be through the ministry. So with these two salvities, we do accept your proposal. We asked for our amendment to be accepted, and in case this amendment was not accepted,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u99	...we call for a point vote. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs Arias. Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mrs. Arias, if the people in our country knew what you said here today... it's really serious! Because "it came to stay" or "we have to get used to it," these are the words of the current environmental advisor, former Rural. In these words it sums up the scarce interest and disappointment that the problem awakens in political leaders of the People's Party of Galicia. There is no interest in delegating the responsibility of withdrawal and the elimination of children in the municipalities, by means of an agreement that brings as a gift a dive, gloves and a pertega. No interest is shown when the money invested in research is minimal, exceeded by much by any of the Members, who, seeing the coreness of the Union, tend to promote research projects on their own. Since the sectors affected, it is pointed out that the most reasonable exit would be the achievement of a pheromone attractive to the queens, to the masters of the yellow-legged turtle, so that we can make a serious population control, eliminating the largest number of these masters in the two spring, at the beginning of summer and in what precedes the winter. It shows an indisputable disinterest and incompetence when, detected a change in the behavior of the bug in question this past spring, so that because of the cold and rain, primary children were smaller and appeared in the vicinity of homes and people, the Union, instead of warning and recommending caution and caution to all those who did, or we do, common work in the wild and weeds in the domestic neighborhoods, it leaves, shuts up and says nothing, even seeing that attacks on people are numerous and have fatal consequences. What has to happen so that the authorities are sensitive to the problem? Silence and cowardice. It's cowardice because every year the yellow-legged tart, the plum, goes further, and the honey harvest goes less, the number of trobes decreases, you eat the bees by these helicopters that need, in a first phase, basically protein, and sugar and carbohydrates at the end of their final stage. For now, we suffer them from the village, which, as everyone knows, we are used to living with all kinds of bugs, with all kinds of bugs. But with the ability to adapt that you're showing, I hope I'm wrong, the threat isn't just because of the risk of our physical integrity or the loss of the apicola sector. The pollinators, who are regulators, scatterers of life in general, engines of fruit and seed existence, essential factor in the achievement of our food and the permanence of natural balance, are in serious danger. And nothing, nothing, it happens. To Junta, impassable, he's not even there. When do you plan to convene a follow-up commission? Is there a ghost commission to say that it is done when nothing is done? When are they going to support research decisively, the only reasonable way out of the future for the problem we are dealing with? When are you going to be a government at the service of the people defending the sectors affected by the tartago and defending the people we live in in the countryside and we see our lives altered by the indecent management of this matter? Thousands of reported children who don't retire and die on the arrival of winter, after the turtle masters are buried to restart their life cycle in the spring! So this is the story, the story, of the disinterest born of incompetence, or of incompetence, nothing of disinterest. From the BNG we see that there is no intention or political will to unite and combine the efforts of the various institutions involved, to master by means the necessary joint action, means for research projects that bring positive results. And lack of consciousness and determination to comply with the duty to alert the population and instruct it in what it must do when danger can put human lives at risk. It is necessary, in order to place the problem in its right dimension, to bear the active presence of the Asian sinter daily, to see the caves rub up to death, to feel the fig tree's zoo on the edge of the house, not to be able to pass under the grass or to have a tin in the willow, with an inch in the ivy when it blooms, with the broom when it is red... There's no corner where he's not present and his damage is enormous and growing. It's hard for the pest statement. From the BNG we believe that everything is rejected by a palpable disinterest, and that there are more reasons than enough for us, together with all the incidences of the yellow-legged tart, to be able to request the declaration of this invader nothing friendly with the figure of "plague" and what this entails. The environmental balance and the risks and damage that this causes. The rest is to live in the unreal and backward world to the interests of the people and the country. And that's how we're going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u102	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u103	Thank you, President. We thank BNG and En Marea for their support for this initiative. As far as the amendments are concerned, we're looking for an agreement between the groups. Mrs. Arias Rodríguez, the plump is harmful, of course it's harmful. Ask beekeepers, fruit growers and carpenters, who are small sectors but are important to the Greek economy. [[Applause]] He also named the toast to the sun: that they now have no taxes through the government of socialist Pedro Sánchez. The replacement amendment presented to us by the PP comes to say, as always, that the thing remains as it is. Do you really believe that the expansion of the young lady doesn't deserve responsible action by the Galician Union? Look, we're faced with a health problem, a social problem and an economic problem that doesn't stop growing, as I once exposed when I was showing the maps. Therefore, it requires concrete measures, to deal with it seriously, not declarations of intent that no longer compromise any resources. So we will try to reach an agreement to meet the first point of our initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u104	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Churches and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the compensation aid for additional costs incurred by electrointensive industries provided for in the additional provision of the 100th forty-fifth of the State General Budget Act for the year 2018, amounting to 150 million euros
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u105	This motion for a non-law was tabled by a self-amendment of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group and amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the Galician Socialist Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u106	To formulate the following non-law proposal, you have the floor of Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u107	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The People's Group brings to this Parliament an initiative related to the support of the electro-intensive industry, sadly of extreme urgency by the announcement, last Wednesday, of the closure of the electro-intensive industry in Alcoa, in particular of the plants it owns in the Coruña and Avilés. Go ahead, ladies and gentlemen, the solidarity of this Parliament's People's Group with the Alcoa workers. The maintenance of jobs is where we all must now concentrate all our efforts. When we register this initiative and when we put it on the agenda of this plenary, we didn't imagine the imminent outcome that is being produced these days. Although I suppose all of you will have heard in these last few days what interruptability is, I see myself in the obligation to explain above what consists of and what steps have been happening in time until this moment. Interruptibility is a service to which electrointensive companies have access, such as, in Galicia, Megasa, Alcoa or Ferroatlantic to a greater extent, but also others such as Finsa, Coren or Intasa. Electrointensive companies are mainly steel companies, which, as they are large electricity consumers, could opt for a specific auction scheme consisting of megawatts packages in which the ability to interrupt supply would be underestimated when there was an excessive demand for energy and production would not reach the rest of society or industry. Well, this would cost about 500 million euros to the electrical system. And this system, which is regulated in the current electricity sector law of 2013, has been questioned by the European Commission, which considers it excessively expensive and very intense in relation to those employed by other countries in the European Union. It should be remembered how important these kinds of industries in Europe, especially steel industries, were world leaders in the manufacture of steel and aluminium and are now being overcome by Chinese companies whose government carries direct aid. And given the strategic importance of this sector, the European Commission is always vigilant and, in the specific case of Spain, in 2016 questioned the viability of these aids by auctions — which, on the other hand, had been granted years. Therefore, the central government took note and has been promoting a series of measures to support this intensive industry, beginning a transition period since 2017, in which a portion of aid was mixed by auctions — as it had been doing, I repeat, for years now — and, on the other hand, a loan of 131 million euros to compensate for the rest of the aid. At that time, a draft regulation was drawn up to implement the said aid, which is pending the approval of the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission, and of what has not been informed by the Central Government. By coming back to 2018, it was planned to make an auction for the first half of the year. And for the second half they were planned in the state budgets 150 million euros; 150 million euros to put in place a system of compensation for additional costs incurred by the electrointensive industries. I repeat: EUR 150 million in charge of the Energy State Secretariat that has not yet been launched. The current scenario is that the auction was made in the first half of the year. The result of the auction was that the remuneration of the set of electrointensive companies in Spain would receive 40% less money than in previous years. In order to compensate urgently, we would have to have EUR 150 million in aid provided for in the budgets of this year 2018 — which, as everyone will know, were the budgets of the People's Party. Given the importance that Galicia represents these types of industries, and given the inaction and uncertainty that is generating the government of Mr. Sánchez, the People's Group has registered the initiative, which, as I said before, has been overcome by the imminent announcement of the closure of Alcoa plants. And that's why we were obliged to self-amend our initiative. Our initiative would therefore consist of two first points, which would say: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to be required by the Government of the State: 1. To put in place, and before the end of the 2018 budgetary year, the compensation provided for in additional provision 100th Quadrixth Fifth of Law 6/2018, of 3 July, of general State budgets for the year 2018 amounting to 150 million euros. 2. May a new compensation scheme for additional costs included in the price of electricity supported by the intensive industries be implemented for exercise 2019 et seq.." And replacing our previous point 3 would be: "The central government, after the agreement with the affected autonomous communities, establishes the compensation mechanisms necessary to ensure that these types of industries compete on an equal footing with their European counterparts." And a point 4 added: "Work from the action unit of public administrations and social agents to find an urgent solution for Alcoa to ensure the maintenance of business and employment in Galicia." This is our current initiative. On the amendments you have tabled, I will speak on my second turn. We're in good tune and we're going to accept much of your amendments. And from here, from the group, the People's Group, and of course from the Government of Unity, we insist on giving maximum support to the workers and the workers of Alcohol. Alcoa's unilateral decision to shut down the plants of Avilés and the Coruña is a decision we neither share nor understand. It is true that the price of energy in Spain is detrimental to the competitiveness of electrointensive companies, but — I insist — so far there has always been a solution. The Government of the Union, from the very beginning, has been in constant contact with the representatives of the workers of the Welsh plants as well as with the Government of Asturias to work together and make a common front, an action unit that will have the company rectify and lift the employment regulation file, and with the central government to put on the table an electrical framework that brings stability and certainty to the electrointensive companies. There is no future for Alcoa without a clear and defined energy regulatory framework. The company and the central government must assume their co-responsibility. As you will know, last Friday the president of the board met with the corporate committee of the Crown plant and then with the president of the Principality of Asturias to define a joint road map, requesting the involvement of the Central Government, to try to try to get Alcoa to reconsider his position. This very afternoon the Industry Councillor and his counterpart in the Principality will meet with the Secretary General of Industry, Mr. Raúl Blanco. And tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, the Councillor, on his own request, will come to this Parliament to inform us all of the current situation and of the meeting held with the Central Government this afternoon. Let us hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the Central Government will also have the same answer and appear in the Senate, responding to the request of the People's Party Group, to report on its actions there as well. I insist, we're in a key moment, in a point of no return. If the Central Government does not make urgent decisions, as it would be to execute, for example, the departure of EUR 150 million this year from the state budget to compensate the electro-intensive companies for their last-post results, it will be critical. I reiterate my highest support for the workers and their families, and I stress the commitment of this group, and of course the Government of the Union, to work to prevent Alcoa's closure in the city of Coruña. For my part, it is only left to say that I hope for the support of all groups, that it is a crucial issue and that it will have much more force in Madrid if we approve it unanimously. And, as I said before, we've been looking very carefully at their amendments, and the second time I'll tell them the possible compromise proposal we'll offer them. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa. On behalf of the rest of the parliamentary groups, you have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u109	Well, good day again. Today it is absolutely inevitable to speak of Alcoa, it is absolutely inevitable to transfer it also in the name of the Nationalist Block Galego once again to our absolute solidarity and to be sure that we will contribute, as far as possible, to this subject being absolutely priority in all the political agendas of this country. I am glad, Mrs. Novoa, that the People's Party has finally begun a line of correction as to what its position on the interruptability system has been in recent years. I am also glad that at last the People's Party understands that the Greek Parliament can politically demand the withdrawal of ERE and can be politically involved in the conflicts that exist in the companies in our country. It's good news that they finally rectify and assume that. I also have to admit to the People's Party — even though we sometimes doubt their motives and that they are a little spurish — that they also at last recognize that when there is an absolutely important conflict, like this one, in our country they do not do as they have done in the last two years and they veto the appearances in the full of the Counsellor, but they actually accept the demands of the opposition. Because you're talking about the fact that Mr. Counsellor is coming to appear on his own initiative, but there are issues that must also be put on the table. The application number for Mr. Conde's appearance is 39,011, and the number of the application that made this opposition no longer know of Alcoa's official communication is 38,943. So it wouldn't be too much for them to recognize that they would, in addition to that request for opposition to appear, assume their responsibilities. Sometimes they didn't, but we welcome them. Well, you have already spoken, Mrs. Novoa, briefly about what is the interruption and how it affects many of the companies in our country. But I wanted to leave two reflections. The first is that this system wasn't always like this, it's not something prefixed that comes from the plutocene and that there was no other alternative. There are alternatives, because that's a political decision. And, in fact, it's a political decision to such an extent that even the system of interruption, which is relatively recent in our industrial framework, has undergone changes. In fact, one of the issues BNG criticizes this system, the electrointensive sector has criticized this system and asked for its change and return, back!, at a stable industrial tariff, is precisely because of the uncertainty it generates. Because in 20 seconds, which lasts for a while, because the future of many companies is at stake, and it also prevents planning to allow issues like investments and so on. In fact, what the People's Party has done lately is to add more uncertainty, because in the last year, Mrs. Novoa, in 2017 and 2018, there have been changes in this system while you were still in the Government. And that's what leads us to the second reflection. We called it interruptability and it looks like something supertechnical and so on, but we could also sum it up in nonsense. Because the truth is that this way of working is an absolute nonsense. And why is that possible? Because it depends on political decisions, and because it already existed. And that's why we, in our amendment, add up to a demand that is not new for us but not for industry itself, which is a stable industrial tariff. And that's more, the announcement of Alcoa's closure because it reveals another debate, which is unacceptable for our band and what I'm going to talk about, but I wanted to remember a couple of questions. I am glad that the People's Party — I insist — is correct and that it is finally a debate that needs to be given pause in this Parliament, because it is less than a month ago, Mrs Novoa, that you voted against a proposal from the BNG to evaluate the results of the electrointensive pushes and how they affected our country, and that we had a position from Galicia to the state in the face of the changes that will be in the regulation; something that we have also betrayed for the second time to the vote this year, because, since now, from the change of government, you have changed your criteria, we sincerely hoped that they would be with us this time. But surprisingly they did not vote in favour — or not so surprisingly — either. I'm glad that now in the self-amendment they incorporate that Galicia must have a position to transfer to the state. But it's just that when there were these changes in 2017, you said nothing to the central government, they said nothing. Other communities made allegations, put forward proposals, and you said nothing. But I also wanted to remember a couple of questions in the time that I have left and which is scarce, but I have no doubt that, because of the importance of the matter, Mr. Calvo will be flexible. You have also voted against a stable industrial tariff in this Parliament. First, when they absolutely perverted that popular legislative initiative driven by the Galega Interunion Confederation, which waged to change the system of interruption. But also when the Galician Nationalist Block defended a Greek electric tariff, it incorporated that stable industrial tariff proposal. And I'm finished with two reflections. We are going to support and seek a consensus to move — as we gather in our amendment — the demand for the withdrawal of the Alcoa ERE, support for the workers and the workers and the search for a solution by political means. But we ask you to go further, to also ask you to yes, that these budgets are executed in transitoryly and that you have what you buy, but that you bet on changing the current system for a stable industrial tariff and that in that change Galicia has a competitive advantage. If Basquedi can, why not us? We can't allow companies to shut down in our country and get people out of the street when we export about 35% of the average energy each year. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, welcome to the corrections they make today, but much more is needed for the sake of this country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. By the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Losada Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Novoa, in principle, of course, by the Socialist Group, there will be no consensus in support of the workers and the factories of Alcoa, both in the Coruña and in Avilés. It is clear that, on this subject, it is the central issue that we are dealing with right now. But beyond this support, I'm almost sure we will achieve it together, I want to talk about history, because history matters a little — I repeat it again. The truth is, who saw it and who saw it, Mrs. Novoa! Anyone would say he changed the government to Spain! [[Laughter]] Look, there's a previous chronological issue that I think is appropriate for an eagle. The first: in Galicia you've been ruling nine years and six months. I'm saying this in case they have some kind of amnesia -- nine years and six months -- And in Spain they ruled until four and a half months ago for six years and six months. So this is the time frame where we move. And I think it's worth remembering, because, of course, the People's Party changed in these four and a half months, but this wasn't the fall of the horse on the way to Damascus, this was literally... well, I was going to say... it was the fall of the horse on the way somewhere else. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'm going to quote you textually the synthesis of the master's lines in terms of energy policy that Minister Ribera expressed at the Congress of Deputies. By the way, we haven't heard anything like it, from your ideological perspective, from Mr. Rajoy's ineffable government industry ministers, Mr. Soria and Mr. Nadal. One of them should be in Panama or in the Dominican Republic and the other was reading absolutely all the decisions. [[Applause]] Look, the master lines are two. The first is a new, more sustainable, more supportive and fairer economic and energy model. Do you know why we never listened to Mr. Soria and Christmas? Because that wasn't his model. And since they were real ashamed of their model, they didn't say anything, they were doing all that waste back door in regulatory terms that they did. And this model has four central elements — which have a lot to do with the rate of interruption and, of course, have a lot to do with the model as a whole —: cost savings for users and consumers, the protection of vulnerable consumers — on the next initiative, we will talk about this — the drive to self-consumption and to facilitate European renewable energy targets. See how simple it is? See how simple it was? Then you can do what you can do, and you can get as far as you can get, but it was so simple, Mrs. Novola. And I insist that I never listened to Mr. Rajoy's government ministers. And the second one, and this comes directly into the question of interruptability, is to allow a functioning of the market, with two elements as well, Mrs. Novoa. The first is the stability and confidence of investors, which is very important in terms of productive economy and investment decision-making, and which, of course, Mr Soria has not tried and Mr Nadal has unfortunately failed. And secondly, don't allow too much pay. And this is where Mr. Soria and Mr. Nadal's shame was, which they didn't mean exactly what they wanted, which was that the big electricity had the highest percent benefits in Europe in relation to the number of consumers. You know? [[Applause]] This is the milestone. And indeed this is a subject, of course, of the Government of Spain, but it is a fundamentally European issue — you spoke a little about it at first. And of course states are negotiating in Europe, and there are loyalty and lack of political loyalty that is very important in the relationship between governments and opposition parties with Europe. And I want to talk about the People's Party and the Spanish right on this subject, because I'm tired of listening to talk here about Europe by filling their mouths. And I want to talk about that president, Aznar — do you remember? — who said President González was a "poor" when he asked for a reinforcement of regional development policy in the Maastricht Treaty. Do you remember that? Looks like no, I see they're on stand by. Yes, indeed, that one. I also remember when Montoro said "let Spain fall, that we will already lift it" — an element of absolute trust transferred to Brussels. And now we've got the new leader, who's already the nothing's going on plus, who's sayin' around, you know? "Spain is a disaster," which is an element of negotiation in cojoned Europe, scrambled! And on the other hand, "or the European Commission falls the budgets, or the budgets fall Spain". Can you really talk about the negotiating position in Europe and the defence of Spain's interests in Europe when they don't rule? Can they really talk about it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u112	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u113	Look, Mrs. Novoa, I, as I'm sure you're absolutely ready...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u114	You just didn't listen to me. I'm saying it's over, it's out of time. [[Strong murmurers.]] Silence, that didn't hear me what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u115	No, I didn't listen. The truth is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u116	That's why I say so. Silence! [[Strong murmurers.]] And, please, stop.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u117	Yes. Mrs. Novoa, as I am sure that the position of the People's Party has changed with the new government, we, in the amendment, are going to introduce a non-law proposal approved in the Congress of Deputies when Mr. Rajoy was ruling in June 2017, which you voted against at that time. We are not like you, we present it when we were in the opposition and present it now. Let's see what they do!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u119	We are faced with a problem where we really have to ensure that we earn the wages that citizens pay us. And that's where my intervention will go. It is clear that the situation and the aid to electro-intensive companies — and this is what the People's Party is — must be resolved towards the future, and should be taken into account in terms of the uncertainty and lack of guarantees, which is more in line with the company's results account and which should take into account, in a binding way, technological renewal and the maintenance of employment. And that's where our amendment goes. So far this has not been done, with erratic and improvised legislation and a succession of minimal-duration patches that prevented a stable frame in the long term. This year's case is paradigmatic, when all industries and workers ask for long-term solutions, the pause rate has not only been changed but has been reduced in its duration. One was made until June and another between June and December, which is now in force. So the company hasn't changed its situation, it's in the same situation as it was last year; that is, the causes of what's happening are different. But, as I said at first, we're on a stage where we can't just talk about giving more unconditional money to electro-intensive companies like Alcoa. The essential point to be agreed today in this Parliament is the requirement that Alcoa immediately withdraw the ERE of extinction. And so I hope you will receive the institutional statement that is being developed in this Parliament at the moment. And at this point there should be absolute unanimity and unity of action for this Parliament, for the municipalities concerned, for the Government of the Union and for the Government of the State alongside the workers and workers, and to leave the differences over alternatives to the sector or the partisan search for culprits. Let's leave it all for the next day when Alcoa renounces the ERE of extinction. Doing the opposite only benefits the Alcoa strategy. A company that received EUR 1 billion from the pockets of the entire citizenry to ensure its viability can't give it a scare. We must immediately set up a negotiating table between the company, the workers, the municipalities concerned, the Union and the Government of the State. And to get to work, in particular -- I say -- the starting point is that they pull out the ERE. That's what we have today to agree on in an absolute way. And then, yes, to talk about what to do in a time frame, which can be immediate, and what this non-law proposal is about, what we agree on. How could we not agree if we already tabled a non-law proposal this January of the year exactly the same as we were asked to implement the budgets that were in the 2017 budget? The People's Party voted against, and from that score of 131 million — which was 150 and was reduced to 131 — of the 2017 budgets did not run even one euro. That is why we believe it is essential to request the Government of the State to initiate the above-mentioned budget heading. But that, yes, linked to the sustainability of employment and technological improvement in factories. And both the compensations mentioned in the preceding paragraph and the new and re-considered pauses that are made throughout Europe — yes, in other words — for the next few years compensates for a true service of interruption; and that fundamentally — and this is essential — differ in several categories of companies depending on the impact that the costs of electricity supply have on their total production costs. This will prevent them from competing companies where compensation is essential for their viability with others for which it is only a help for their development but which is not so critical to their survival. This is the problem that we are living in right now, which competes with companies where the cost of electricity is 40% of their total costs with other companies that are 10% or 15%, i.e., that being important does not mean a critical part for their viability. We must also, of course, alter all electrical legislation, but that will not be possible in the five weeks of theoretical life that is left for Alcoa. But if you can also immediately launch the output of hydraulic production, wind production and nuclear production of day-to-day thrusts. That would make a huge drop in prices for industry in general and also for homes. That would be a measure that could be taken immediately as well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u120	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u121	And in the long run -- and to finish -- there's a very important issue. The problem with Alcoa is structural but not structural that the Coruña and Avilés factories are not profitable. No, the structural problem that Alcoa is developing is that he's illegally doing competition to his own Spanish factories. It's contributing from Saudi Arabia's factory, which burns fuel to produce electricity and burns fuel oil to extract water from the desalinerizers and then put that aluminum through the port of Vigo and compete for local production. We would have to move from all groups to the next European elections which the European Union is proposing environmental tariffs which imply that products should be taken into account...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u123	...the CO2 that emits to produce them. This would be essential for there to be no competition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u124	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u125	...as loyal, as in this case, of a company to its own factories located in European territory. That's essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u126	Thank you very much. For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Novoa Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u127	Thank you, President. Madam Presas, I told you that the other day in the Commission. Of course, his speech and his presence, if we ruled in Madrid, would be here with the T-shirts. And don't tell me no, they'd be on the sign. But, of course, how the PP governs here but in Madrid governs the PSOE, so, of course, it changes. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, you tell me what you said or said here they don't want to close companies. But then Ence or Elnosa, what are they? are companies? You can't say one thing and you can't say the opposite. [[Murmurs.]] You don't believe them, Mrs. Presas, and it's your result. Their previous initiatives called for assessments of the latest bids. They've already been made by electro-intensive companies! And you know what they asked for? They asked for the EUR 150 million to be made available, the same as all of us, Mrs Presas. That's what they're asking, so we refuse their initiatives. The Greek fare is a mantra that is already out of date, it's out of date. Look, the solutions are moving forward in interconnections, interconnections with Europe, and not breaking Galicia from Spain. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Presas, please, your speech is rancio, rancio and obsolete. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Losada, anybody would say you rule in Madrid. That's what I'm telling you. Anyone would say so, because in the last commission, he urged the central government again. Don't trust your own government!: amendments to the social bonus, self-consumption, of the real decree they passed last week! Anyone would say you rule in Madrid! Speaking of Europe is very good, talking about Europe is great, I gave a little brush, but I recommend that — since you can take off the phone and call Madrid to do something of a matter — ask the Greeks for it. So that they do not apply the supplement — the initiative we have brought here — to all the citizens of Greece and Wales, and that they do not close, or want to close, the Meirama and the Bridges, Mr Losada. Because soon we'll have another problem here — and you know — with the Meirama plant. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So I ask you less to talk about Europe and other ideas and call Madrid to defend the interests of the Greeks, the Greek workers and the Greek companies. [[Applause]] And, Mr. Casal, the truth is that it is important to collect, but it is also very important to pay — just a very subtle point. And this government, look, has never changed his speech. And I insist — and for all groups — that, look, for speech changes, yours. Look, from In Marea, Yolanda Díaz—it's from his group, or from Podemos, well, from his confluence—: "In Marea load against the privileges of Megasa, Alcoa and Ferroatlantica. In Marea it calls to limit the pay and the auctioned power of interruptability, which is seen as a covert aid to large consumers." So how will you explain this to the Alcoa workers? What do you want? Do you intend to close or remain open? I just don't understand. [[Murmurs.]] Look, as for the amendments — which I have no time left — Mr BNG, we cannot accept your Greek tariff — if I have explained it to you. And with that I end up with your amendments, because basically that's the most outstanding thing. On those of the Socialist Group, we must emphasize that we are going to support or include in our proposal the whole question of linking — and going to En Marea too — the employment aid and the investments that these industries have to make. It goes for everyone in general — sorry, Mrs. Presas. What we cannot accept is the theme of Galicia's energy guidelines, which, I repeat, have already been presented here. The counsellor came by and you could ask, or you could investigate; or, if not, take an initiative. But the goal here and today is the electro-intensive companies and Alcoa, not Galicia's energy guidelines, which have already been part of another full-fledged company. And, Mr. Casal, we can't accept your amendment to exclude renewable energies from the pool, because they basically cost the pool. Then don't ask us things that are incoherent and hard to explain anywhere else. I insist, the Group and the People's Group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u128	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u129	...we are committed to the workers. He's been working hard. We call on the Central Government to provide 150 million euros and a stable regulatory framework. I'll pass them the transaction proposal so they can value it. And in the vote they'll tell us. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u130	Thank you very much. We suspended the meeting until 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u131	Good afternoon. We resumed the session. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal, on the demand of the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Ecological Transition for the implementation of the necessary changes to enable the provision of the social bonus by all electricity companies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u132	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u133	Mr. Casal has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u134	Good afternoon. We're few, but that's what's going on. The matter is important but... it will be recorded there. In many talks that we are developing throughout Galicia to speak and report on the social bond and also on the lack of information the citizenry has about tariffs and light contracts, even though the majority group has repeatedly rejected our offers and our plans to develop information campaigns, on the one hand on the subject of tariffs and contracts, an economic study we have done and we have presented — if we have registered it but we will present it in commission or full in the next few days — says that families in Galicia spend 200 million euros more a year on their bill of light only — but not entering the scams and fixing prices and other things — because they do not have the proper rate and contract in their homes. In more than twenty talks we have been conducting around the country, it has been confirmed that more than 90 percent of people don't know whether it's in the regulated market or in the free market. Most people don't know the hourly discrimination rate, which is the most favourable for any home. I recommend they look at their receipts and, if they're not in time discrimination, they do, because they're going to save a lot of money. But the bloodiest issue is the question of the lack of information on the social bond.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u135	Excuse me a moment. They say you don't listen well, see if...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u136	Yes. Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u137	Pick up the microphone a little bit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u138	Okay. Now you listen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u139	Let's see that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u140	That's why we're focusing on a matter of which we haven't talked about anything in Congress or in this Parliament, which is the subject of the fact that we can only offer families the social bond to regulated companies. The Minister of the People's Party Álvaro Nadal imposed a reform of the social bond in 2017 that was challenged by many groups of affected, and, although it includes, of course, some improvements, how to fix the reference of the social bond to income, because it had no sense that it was only by power, because people with a lot of income and with a lot of economic capacity had the social bonus in the second dwellings, and this had no meaning at all. But this legislative change made a noise of such a calibre that, if the moratorium was not approved, first the People's Party made a moratorium in April because at that time only 5% of the people had succeeded in renewing the social bond, but now, when the deadline was over, on October 8, the current government had to make another moratorium until day 31. It's important to tell people that you can't keep asking for the social bonus, but you can lose it for those who already had it if you don't renew it. But still, the reality is that in the current situation we are leaving out 75% of the families that benefited from this help and many more than they should be entitled to it. According to data from the Ministry of Ecological Transition, in the middle of this summer only 715,000 users were able to accommodate the new social bond, compared to the 2.4 million customers who were beneficiaries of the old one. This data is the brutal evidence of the plight of the People's Party's Government's policy on energy poverty. His political action went from nothing to disaster. And where are we right now? The latest data says that more than 400,000 people in Galicia and 4.6 million people living in Spain were unable to keep their home warm during the cold months, and nearly 600,000 people in Galicia and 6.8 million in Spain suffered inadequate temperatures in the housing, delays in the payment of receipts or both simultaneously. The new bonus has now arrived — as I said — at 715,000 homes in Spain, a ridiculous percentage of the magnitude of the problem. Now, what we're not talking about is that only people can ask for light from a reference marketer; that is, one of the eight companies operating in Spain in this category, essentially the five of the oligopolie: Naturgy, Endesa, Iberdrola, Viesgo and EDP, and then the Ceuta, Melilla or Canary Islands. So what about the more than 600,000 people in Galicia and the 15 million customers in Spain who are on the free market? What about people who have the light with one of the 728 marketers who are not of reference? For they are excluded from the social bond and from any protection against the cut-off of supply. Minister Nadal linked the definition of vulnerable consumer at risk of exclusion from income, and that's very good, but also to the electrical company. That's why they're only legal subjects in front of the cuts the customers of the reference traders. I mean, not only is one vulnerable to their economic and family situation, but also, surprisingly, to the company with which they have contracted the light. What will the company have to do with the family situation? Minister Teresa Ribera announced that her reform will include the precautionary principle, but without defining it, that's the problem too. The precautionary principle implies that the company cannot cut supply without first checking whether the holder is in a vulnerable position. Will the minister of Ecological Transition apply the precautionary principle to all families or will he leave the 600,000 citizens of the free market? All electricity traders are covered by the social bond, all of which are either on the regulated market or on the free market, so it is logical and necessary that all marketers can facilitate the social bond. In any case, it should be changed how to calculate that contribution from companies, which is now made in relation to their number of customers and really should be done according to their full turnover, including production and distribution, in addition to marketing where they have vertical integration. I mean, it's not logical that it's because of the number of customers, because that has nothing to do with the actual income of these companies. With this, in addition to reaching the excluded population, the transvasion of customers to the oligopolie companies would be avoided. It really makes me sick to have to tell people that they have to switch from a social energy cooperative to Fenosa Natural Gas or Iberdrola so they can get the social bonus. In this way they could offer the bonus to all companies that wanted it, among other things, non-profit energy cooperatives, which market only renewable energy and wage for the democratization of energy. It would therefore cease to be incompatible for a customer access to the social bond with having the light contracted with an ethical company that does not practice the perverse game of turning doors. That's why, above all, we urge the Galician Council to urge the Ministry of Ecological Transition to make the necessary legal changes so that all electricity traders can offer the social bonus. It wouldn't be unfair to do that. It's bad enough that people have no information and are in the free market without knowing it. I can assure everyone that, in the hundreds of people we've talked to, more than 90% of those who were on the free market did not know because, as you know, the European Union has pointed out that free market traders have to have a totally differentiated name from regulated market traders, and here it is so differentiated as, for example, in the case of Natural Gas, the regulated market market market market is called Gas Natural SUR SDG S.A., and that of the free market is called Gas Natural SDG S.A. As seen, names are impossible to confuse. It looks at the already surprising limit, the last one... as bad as it has already announced to the minister that the house will be banned from home, the door by door, to change people to the free market, because the vast majority of families are always damaged. This practice will be banned, especially with older people. So in northern Galicia, so they know where they're coming from, they say to people, "Look, you're in the South Natural Gas and you live in the North—South means Last resort Service." Why don't you get in the north, which is Natural Gas Services SDG? And they change people with such amazing and disgusting deceptions like this. So, I think it's a subject that goes beyond politics, which is simply a matter of justice, that every citizen who has the right to the social bond can access it, be in a regulated oligopolie company or be in a cooperative energy society as they claim throughout the state. I'm surprised it's the first time this is going to happen in Congress as well as in any autonomic parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u141	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u142	Good afternoon. I wanted to give some information that raises two fundamental questions that I think are important in this matter of what we are talking about today. First, the gravity of the situation. And secondly, the gravity of the lack of political will to remedy the situation in this country. We have leftover data that illustrates the difficulty that most people face, for most popular classes, to face the payment of the bill of light, something that is not exclusive to those who are in a more extreme situation. Still, according to IGE's own data, we have more than 187,000 homes in our country, and more than 442,000 people in our country, who claim that they cannot have their home at an adequate temperature. These cases, for us, are also extreme. It is alarming, and it gives an idea of the lack of commitment and political action of the Galician Union that just a week ago, when the BNG spoke about the issue of electricity in this House through our spokeswoman Anne Pontón, Mr. Núñez Feijóo had said proudly, as if it were an extraordinary thing and that only he was able to do, that the electric ticket had helped about 14,000 homes in the last four years. Home! I think it's a little embarrassing that figure, considering the more than 442,000 people who declare this, where an underdeveloped and underdeveloped electric ticket could arrive. We also have questions like that 18 percent of our country's homes have difficulty having the hot house at the same time as we export -- I still give this data back today -- about 35 percent of electricity every year since our country. And all of this happens while we see that the big companies in the sector, by setting an example, the three most important companies operating in the Spanish state, which are Iberdrola, Endesa and what we now know as Naturgy, last year, the whole year, which was 2017, will remember their lordships because we speak long and hard of the hydrological year, in which hydroelectric energy, which is the most beneficial to them, has suffered a complicated moment, even in a year so they increased their benefit by 3%, more than 5,000 million euros! That's a scandal, and it makes us go along with our proposal to amend a little further to the bottom, which is, on the one hand, the electrical system and the necessary reform that it must have; and on the other hand, all the reference to the question of the price of light. In the face of this scandal, we think that the answer you are giving — and we share part of Mr. Casal's reflection — is ridiculous. It doesn't reach the ridiculous levels of the Galician board electric ticket, but the truth is, it's too short. I imagine that everyone and everyone were able to read yesterday the Atlantic newspaper, which was doing a report that reported that, according to Naturgy's own data, in the Vigo area there would be 24,000 people excluded from the new social bond, even once done the reformulation of the last October of the Central Government; therefore, it is all obvious that it is no longer a patch. In addition, it must be remembered that in 2017 it was reformulated precisely because its funding is absurd, because it is not in charge of state budgets as it happens in other countries, such as Italy or France, and the electrics resorted, and the electrics had the reason of the courts, and that was again a complex process that costs more and more money to the public era and issues of the electric surplus that could go to other things. So it's a bigger and bigger ball, and it's very hard to improve a social bond that's very poor. In any case, we do find it interesting that Mr Pancho Casal is presenting today about the opening of the banana to the most marketers. That has a positive part. We understand that there would potentially be fewer people who would be excluded, but we also understand — and that is why we share this open formulation — that we should look at it with caution. On the one hand, in the legal field, to prevent these free market traders from being able to travel through courts and to seek some salvation through that way. On the other hand, there would be a need to study and to sit down and dialogue with the smaller marketers themselves, and for example, thinking that there is one in our country that doesn't reach the 1,000 customers, to study how you could accompany the work that these merchants do without that it was a loss of economic viability for them, but it seems to us that this is a question that needs to work. In any case, beyond supporting this proposal, we add two points. One of them is that we understand that we must continue to debate the VAT of electricity, which is an absolutely vital issue. If the state yields, it ceases to embolden millionaires through that 21% VE and lowers the VE of electricity — it has been lowered by the VE of tournades and it seems to us a much more indispensable thing — then families would have an important relief from their tax burden. On the other hand, we insist on also saying that this debate must be urgently opened, which is often promised, but which we see is not enough, of the reformulation of the electrical system. A reformulation of the electrical system which should change the view of electricity as the commodity of electricity as a right. Surely so there could be other steps that would have made for an improved social bond, or in any format, to address the most extreme cases, but that the most extreme cases were not more than 442,000 people in our country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin exactly where I started in the previous non-law proposal, with the timetable. The People's Party has been ruling in Galicia nine years and six months, and ruled until four and a half months ago for six and six months in the Government of Spain. It also has a great deal to do directly with this initiative presented by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea because, in fact, everything that has to do with energy poverty and the problems of access to energy that I have faced the crisis for the most affected social groups, I believe that it is clearly synthesized in two or two phases. The first, the phase of the negation of the problem, the negation of the evidence. We've seen it not only by Mr. Rajoy's Government, but also by the German Government. Since the arrival of Mr Feijóo in the Government in 2009, until 2014, the People's Party has systematically voted against all opposition initiatives in favour of measures to alleviate energy poverty in Galicia. Five years, all against. That's the objective fact. [[Applause]] They have an anticyclical vision so strong that, just when economic activity starts to recover and when we get into positive growth rates, it's when they start to take into consideration the problem with absolutely small numbers and policies. But I'll talk about it a little later. I'm also going to repeat, in addition to chronology, the government's master lines of Sanchez in relation to energy, basically two. The first is a new, more sustainable economic and energy model, more supportive and fairer, with four lines of action essentially: the cost of electricity, which seems to us to be fundamental in a general way, but it seems to us as a priority — I insist — for those most affected social groups; that of linearity almost always hides discrimination. The second is the protection of vulnerable consumers. Indeed, in these early phases we must act directly on energy poverty. I hope, and the socialists hope, that this progressively converges towards something like a vital minimum income or whatever we want to call it, but segmenting poverty means, first, enormously complicate management by administrations, and, above all, by people who need access to public support, because, undoubtedly, we are talking about different instances, different systems, at last, all the problems that I think everyone with minimal sensitivity understands. I remember that in an intervention on the Welsh electric ticket in this plenary I said it seemed extremely complicated that an old woman, probably with little more than an incomplete primary education, who lived in an isolated village of the municipality of Chandrexa de Queixa, would have many difficulties to, via the internet, apply for this electric ticket. Some Members and Members of the People's Party, in an absolutely incomprehensible way — being elegant — laughed. I don't know very well what they laughed at, beyond stupidity itself, but, in any case, they laughed. And then the data was there. Budget games, which were terrible, were not executed because there were no requests. But there were no requests, not because there was no need, but because the Autonomic Administration, instead of favoring access to public compensation measures in situations of poverty, are to other things, they're to Industry 4.0 and technological modernization we don't know very well that. [[Applause]] And then, finally, allow the market to function. Indeed, we understand and defend a well-regulated free market — well regulated, I insist — which facilitates the stability and confidence of investors. We also understand that there has to be these conditions in order to favour investment, but of course, to avoid or not allow excessive remuneration. In any case, if they exist, that they are fiscally treated to have a redistributive effect. Today the National Institute of Statistics has published the indicator approved by the European Union. I don't know if the Parliament of Galicia's People's Group has the approval, I hope so. The European Union itself, which is the quality of life indicators. Here comes a table with poverty risk data with a fixed threshold, a small detail which is true that Mr. Núñez Feijóo doesn't understand, or if he understands it with quite good performance, because the only way to really measure progress or the decrease in poverty is to keep a fixed reference at the start of a given income, because we're talking about percentages about that income. Despite what the People's Party says, there are nine communities in Spain with less poverty than Galicia. It's true that there are seven worst, and it's also true that the seven worst are all in the southern half. It is very much related, for example, to the new population, which is the most affected by the crisis and, therefore, to what it has — especially in the case of women, monomantal families — more problems of poverty. But with similar demographic rates, like the northwest, we are the autonomous community with the highest rate of poverty. The data from the survey of active population come out, we still have the data from the second quarter -- I was trying to hear the contributions -- which say that about 100,000 people from this autonomous community live in incomeless homes, and about 200,000 live in homes with all their members unemployed -- that is, the senior pensions, the second lowest in Spain. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For in that dramatic scenario, the budgets that have entered this Parliament are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u145	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u146	...about three days they keep and persevere in the mistake and in the real scandal: EUR 1.3 million for energy ticket, when we're saying that GDP has recovered from the crisis situation of the year 2008 and that we're going to have the expansion budgets since practically the Carthaxineses. I insist, 1,300,000 euros. And the population is focusing on what the Galician Union is planning to do -- I insist, 33,000 homes with no income at all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u148	...no pensions, no unemployment, no 33,000—the population focuses, or 10% of that population.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u149	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u150	The other 90% are supposed to live in prayers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u151	Thank you. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u152	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mr. Losada, do you speak of the duration or durability of the People's Party Government in the Union and don't tell me about the government... how long have you ruled in Spain? More than 20 years, Mr. Losada. More than twenty years to leave the country to ruin forever, except when Mr. Felipe González ruled, but you don't speak much, speak more of Mr. Zapatero's government or now of Mr. Sánchez. Mr. Casal, before I start and get full on the initiative, I'd like to know, when you talk about green energy, what is it?, how did Mrs. Colau just create in the Barcelona Town Hall? They accuse Colau of cheating on his municipal power plant. "Ecologicalists criticize that selling as green energy that of an incinerator," he said, condemned by pollution, in addition. For example, yours, Mr. Casal. [[Interruptions.]] Today, you bring an initiative to this plenary, on the social bond, which we have already dealt with on numerous occasions in Commission 6th, and you begin your intervention by alluding to the Minister of Christmas. You can't forget about Mr. Rajoy's government for a moment! And he says: I imposed the reform of the social bond. Correct the words, Mr. Casal, not imposed: a social bonus has been negotiated at the Congress of Deputies. Negotiated with all groups, not imposed. They don't do what you do in other countries or what they like about governments in other countries across the fence. Mr. Casal, Mr. Nadal led the reformulation of the social bond...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u153	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u154	...to Congress and passed after negotiation with the rest of the groups. And what happened was that you voted against. Well, you voted against and the Catalan extremists and separatists, those with whom your boss negotiates the budget in prison. All those people voted against. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'm going to focus my intervention on three fundamental aspects that justify voting against this group on its initiative. Look number one. The social bond was reformed in 2016 after a Supreme Court ruling invalidating the previous social bond in 2009. As I said, it went forward after multiple negotiations and meetings with most parliamentary groups; a reformulation that included the classification of three categories of consumers adding one more, that of vulnerable consumer at risk of social exclusion, to which power supply cannot be suspended. With which, I insist, the ultimate defense of the creation of the social bond, which has established a legal regulatory framework for all this kind of aid. I look like number two. Two weeks ago Mr Sánchez's Government passed a Royal Decree on 15/2018 of urgent measures for energy transition and consumer protection, which also validated, as I said in the previous initiative, last Thursday in Congress, and which has measures that complement the previous social bonus, approved by the Government of the People's Party. In this Royal Decree, apart from the expansion of the current bond or the addition of the thermal bond, a mandate is also established for the Government to approve, within six months, a national strategy to combat energy poverty. It says in particular that autonomous communities, local authorities, consumer associations, industry and business representatives will be counted and that poverty reduction targets will also be established on a medium- and long-term basis, and will propose concrete measures to achieve these objectives. In addition, in this real decree there are measures to protect the consumer and marketing is prohibited at the door that you have repeatedly criticized in this House. Therefore, from this group we believe it is essential to wait for the development of this strategy before addressing further reforms in the fight against energy poverty. Yes, we will be vigilant in the implementation of this initiative and we will take the appropriate measures at the moment. A timer on reference traders. You talk about everything, as always, and you don't talk about what it is that you have the ability to supply the price for the small consumer, so that you can apply for the bonus, and that you are the ones who have most of the contracts, besides having to meet social capital requirements, the amount of customers, the requirements endorsed by the National Market and Competition Commission. But to you it doesn't matter and systematically criticizes everything. What is strange to me, Mr. Losada, is that his partners in Madrid systematically and repeatedly criticize him since they arrived at the Government. And what worries me most is that you don't trust your own government and you have to insist on it all the time. The third aspect — to finish it now — why we are not going to accept this initiative, is that the German Government has been there. He's been a pioneer since 2014, moving forward with help from the electric ticket. But you also understand, ladies and gentlemen, that energy poverty is a state problem, which is why it was in favour of a state solution as was the social bond, and they will continue to take complementary autonomous actions. Initiatives, Mr Casal, how to pass a law in this Parliament, in the wake of a popular legislative initiative on energy efficiency measures and ensuring accessibility to electricity, to which you also voted against, which guarantees the payment of half of the energy bill to the most vulnerable consumers and which, together with the social bonus, could be one hundred percent of the cost of the bill, as well as the impediment on the part of the supplier companies to be able to cut the light to the most needy families. But you voted against it, Mr. Casal. The actions of the Greek Government that already have more than 500 well-served homes, but I repeat, you have not supported them. That's why we believe that there is a need for greater dissemination of these aids through information campaigns that are already being done, Mr. Losada; what you are asking for in your amendment is already being done. And last week an initiative was adopted to take the seven municipalities of the big cities formation on self-help.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u156	These are actions by the German Government, Mr. Casal, and by which we will not support your initiative. As for the amendments to the BNG, you, Mrs. Presas, propose as always to bring together a new frame and break with what there is. We don't agree on breaking up with what's going on. We agree to perfect it, of course. But it will not deny that at least the framework that has been allowed to contain a tariff deficit of 28 billion euros, which we are paying, and even achieve a surplus of 1,500 million euros. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u158	Well, I don't really understand this way of doing politics. We've come here to talk about families at risk and at vulnerability to the possibility of having their homes in a living situation, and we've come here to talk about Venezuela... I don't know if you think that people who hear this, that people who are going to be cold in months and a half, are interested in the situation of Venezuela, Saudi Arabia, Iran... because I assure you that what they're interested in are their real problems, and not what you're making up. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Lies behind lies. He lied to lies from a political point of view and also from a personal point of view, as you know very well. That must be the way to make politics, to stand up in falsehoods from the first point to the last. That's right, published in reference for you. You know what I mean. [[Murmurs.]] Then I just don't understand why you didn't talk about the proposal. Why are they against which free market traders, such as cooperative societies of social energy, can offer if they want? That makes it clear to Mrs. Novoa, the proposal makes them possible. In fact, there are many of the social energy cooperatives that are asking for it. They don't have to. It will not affect their accounts either because the electric social bonus is financed by all marketers; it is not paid by the marketer who gives it to them; it is paid by them all. The system is not the right one because it is paid by number of customers, and that makes no sense. It should be based on the total revenues of each company. And then Mrs Novoa proudly talks about the electric ticket that mounted the Galician Union, which averaged 2,200 families a year when the IGE — which manages the Galician Union — says that there are over 400,000 households in energy poverty; that is, they reach 0.5% of households in energy poverty. If a Government can be satisfied that one of its policies reaches 0.5% of those affected, it must be that I navigate into other types of political approaches. And you can't wait six months, the cold comes in October. I can't understand they don't support this proposal. A proposal that companies themselves accept. That he couldn't suffer, he could refuse to do it, but those he wants, why don't he leave them? Instead, you vote that no, why? So that 15 million customers in Spain and 600,000 subscribers and homes in Galicia are out of the possibility of asking for the social bonus. It's absolutely incomprehensible! But what is this? I just can't understand it! How can they be against that? Then, with the rest of the initiatives put forward in the amendments, we agree, but the IVE has already presented it in the previous plenary session, and the change in the general regulation of the electrical system. In my proposals, I intend — in things like this, which have an immediate and very serious social impact — to be able to take at least a few steps. Obviously, we have to change the whole electrical system in Spain, but we're not going to get it by November, when it's going to start wet and cold in homes that cause pneumonia and cause 70,000 hospital income in Galicia a year. So that's all you can avoid, and you have to be useful in politics now and then, don't think about the future and don't think about changing everything so it doesn't change anything. Mrs. Novoa, I ask you to reflect. It's imperative that these 600,000 Greeks and those 15 million Spaniards -- which are very many -- are not four, as you said -- that they're on the free market may also be able to get their help from the social bond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u159	Thank you. About the amendments, do you accept the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u160	Yes. We were going to offer, thinking that the People's Party would vote in favour of our proposal, that amendments from the rest of the groups were voted separately, that we accepted them, and we thought that they would, as they voted against in the past plenary... but they insist that they will vote against that most people may have a chance to achieve the social bond, because we accept them directly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u161	Thank you, it's clear. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Maria Luisa Pierres López and four other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union in relation to the extension of the network of family meeting points to the entire territory of Galicia, as well as the improvement of the protocol and conditions of access of users to their facilities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u162	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the proposal has the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u163	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Today we are going to talk about family meeting points, those also known as PEFs, and in order to put the debate properly, I understand that it is necessary, firstly, to describe what they are and to use the meeting points, a service that is probably of the least known between citizenship and even I dare say that here, among the Members and Members of this House. The most important thing, and that at no time should we lose sight, is that a meeting place is born as a place of protection for children; that is the last end, the protection of children is a social equipment that favors the fulfilment of the regime of visits as the fundamental right of children and children to maintain their relationship with their parents. [[Applause]] The reality is that the uses of this type of center are very varied. Sometimes they serve as a neutral place to perform the compliance exchanges of the visit regime, but in others the visit takes place entirely at the center, with supervision of the parents' relationship with the minors. Casuistics is different, and it does not only affect progenitors with bad relationships, there are also minors in shelter who visit their biological parents, grandparents and grandparents who cannot normally see their grandchildren or grandchildren, and also cases of gender violence in which there are even orders of vigilant departure. Therefore, it is important to clarify that PEFs are not only to deal with cases of gender violence, they are useful equipment in many cases of conflict, and with very differentiated services in the case of one or another case. The figures for 2017, as compared to users and users of these PEFs, show that among the seven points from throughout Galicia 24,641 interventions were carried out; almost 70% of them for exchanges, 13% for protected visits and 17% for unsupervised visits. And if many other annual data have dropped, precisely the percentage of cases opened by gender violence has increased by eight points over the past two years, with 30.8% of the total cases opened. Something that has to alert us about the reticence of gender-based violence, especially between couples or former couples. The first decision to centralize these equipment in the seven main cities of Galicia, although at first we understand that it made sense for a matter of priority, today it is precisely the great distance of these equipment with many rural areas of Galicia that prevents, or at least, the access of new users and users, especially when there are judicial resolutions that require the use of this type of meeting points. And, no doubt, the last injured are the ones and the minors who live situations of conflict, and unfortunately even violence, among their progenitors. This claim, therefore, of increasing the offer of this kind of meeting points is at the heart of our request today. An increase that we understand should respond to a comarcalized scheme that would allow the service to be provided even in the most isolated areas. And we do it, in addition, by collecting the generalized demand that has already been given in many geographic areas of Galicia, the most recent in the Morrazo region, from which we are now accompanied by the rostrum, where an increasing demand is found, estimated in fifty possible cases to be dealt with only in this area. But he's also been sued in the last few months in areas like Carballo or the Death Coast, and just a few days ago also in the district of Salnes. This strong social claim unites the spirit of Decree 96/2014 of 3 July, so that the family meeting points are regulated in Galicia, which in its preamble mentions the following: "The Council of Galicia will enhance and develop a network of adequate resources to ensure the effectiveness of the family support and mediation processes, so that they can reach the broadest possible population sectors, both through new technologies and in the form of face-to-face care. And it also points out further: "Through the departments of the competent self-government in the field of family and justice, it will promote, strengthen and expand family guidance, mediation and family meeting points." We see it as if, for example, we have signed agreements of collaboration with universities, we have been advertising the promotion of family mediation, for example, but we have seen nothing of the promotion and proper expansion of meeting points. I should ask the Government why. The truth is, since its inception, the family meeting points continue to be located only in the seven main cities of Greece 17 years after its inception and seven years later from the law of 2011. No other meeting point was launched, arguing always lack of funding or demand. If it is true that, on the initiative, in this case, some judge has crafted some sort of meeting point just for exchanges in order precisely to unravel the saturation situation of those managed by the Council of Galicia; as it was, for example, in the case of the Marin village. We have made it clear that, just as with CIM, they are used where they are; and where they are not — although it sounds like a crane — they are not used. Demand exists where the offer also exists. It's that simple. And since from the Socialist Group we understand that, in any case, media efficiency needs to be taken into account in order to assess the implementation of new points, we believe that the formula — which has been used in the country of France — of roaming points; a country that first implemented these meeting points as early as 1988 and that explored precisely this formula for the most rural areas by rotating the points by geographical areas and moving the staff to places facilitated and adapted by communities or administrations. In the case of Galicia, we understand that, in any case, Decree 96/2014, so that the family meeting points in Galicia are regulated, would have to contemplate this new formula, and in any case, compliance with all the points would have to be required or adapted to a new articulate. In any case, we believe that, since the meeting points attend a lot of cases, they could and should study the same, their incidence and percentages, and contemplate the opportunity or not of the start-up of this new formula. In fact, there are locations in Galicia's territory that are more than a hundred kilometers away from the nearest meeting point, for which users and users need to use between hours and half or two hours to approach it, and by their own means. Let's remember that the moment where the meeting points are most useful is on weekends, which is, therefore, far from the concept of proximity and accessibility service, which should, in any case, be guaranteed. We therefore request not only the assessment of the implementation of new family meeting points, creating at least one in each region, but also the possibility of starting up the formula for travelling meeting points in the most isolated areas of Galicia and there where population density does not allow the maintenance of a meeting point with a stable character. And since perhaps the most sensitive element of the meeting points, beyond the protection of minors, has to do with the security of particularly users who are victims of gender violence, we understand that it is necessary to focus on this issue and to report on the current security conditions in each of the seven existing in order to improve the protocol and conditions for access to buildings or sites by users and users, and with particular attention to the conditions recommended in cases of gender violence. The conditions of access to the buildings hosting the meeting points, for example, Lugo and Pontevedra have already been claimed on several occasions. These are literally dark accesses that generate a feeling of total vulnerability on the part of the victims. It must be understood that in the most serious cases of violence victims and aggressors approach the same center with half an hour of difference; something that, when access is unique, without exit and little lit, causes the panic of those who are continually living under a threat of aggression, or even death. In this study, it is necessary to take into account the subjective perception of women's safety. Let's remember that they are women who live with terror, and no one better than they can pass on to us when they feel or are not safe. Let's take your opinion into account and take your suggestions to improve protocols and installations in every case. And we also improve in these protocols the necessary exchange of information between meeting points and judicial establishments. It is difficult to guarantee or contribute to the safety of a victim if he or she is not even aware of his or her condition, something that can happen if a woman enters the meeting points service after a court sentence for a divorce and, being already a user, then acquires the victim's condition, which leads to the fact that the protection and security protocols do not work properly simply out of ignorance. These and many other issues have been moved by several representatives in the Equality Commission, and we believe that they should be addressed as soon as possible by this Parliament. That's why today we expect the support of all forces to a series of measures we understand, in addition, that are in line with the spirit of Law 3/2011, with childhood, with women and with men and families from all over Galicia. And as he said today, and very well said, Mr. Tellado, we expect coherence from all of us between what is said and what is done. If one defends the protection of children, he does it for all the children of Wales, and not just for a few. Nothing else, for the moment, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u165	Good afternoon and welcome to the people who accompany us also at the guest banquet. We, on the part of the BNG Parliamentary Group, will support the initiative presented by the Socialist Party Group today. We agreed with the explanation, with the exhibition, which Mrs. Pierres was doing now. And as she herself explained, in addition, there have been large-scale demands also moved within the framework of the appearances that took place in the Equality Commission over the course of these two years of legislation. And we believe, in addition, from the BNG that services should be conceived, more still fit in a country like ours, for an oraographic reality, a population reality, marked absolutely by a complex geography and a population dispersion itself, almost unrepeatable in any other territory of the Spanish state. And services must be adapted and adjusted precisely to this population and orographical reality of our country, and must, in addition to ensuring their proximity access, respond to these needs of the population. I told Mrs. Pierres that there are families or people who use those familiar meeting points that have to travel more than a hundred kilometers. We don't have to go much further. I come from the province of Lugo, and anyone who has to make use of these spaces and who is found in the Navy or who is found in the mountain regions, for example, has to travel to the only meeting point that exists in our province and that is in the city of Lugo. In fact, the head of the Children's Foundation, who is one of the entities that manages some of the meeting points in our country and who went to this Parliament precisely acting as spokesperson for these entities, put on the table that there were a lot of localities, a lot of districts in our country, which were unable to access these meeting points in the right conditions. She spoke from the north of Lugo — as I have just mentioned now — of the Navy, the mountain, also of Barbanza or of the southern part of Ourense, which also has only one meeting point for the entire province. It seems very interesting, very necessary and very accurate, that first point of the initiative, which speaks of valuing the comarcal implementation of these services. We believe that it is necessary to walk — we always defend it from the BNG — to provide services in our country that is responsive to the reality of the regions, so that access is guaranteed in conditions of equity and justice of the entire population, regardless of whether it is found in urban or peri-urban areas or whether it is found in rural areas. We also find it interesting — and so it was formulated, in addition, the director of the Children's Foundation — the possibility of implementing these points of meeting with a traveling character. I was talking to Mrs. Pierres now that it was an experience that has already begun walking in the 1980s in France and that there are even territories within the Spanish state that are also experiencing it. In May 2018 — if I remember correctly — the Community of Murcia implemented this first meeting point, and in a traveling way I believe that Castile-A Mancha had already tried or experienced a service of these characteristics. It seems to us — and I would also like to underline it — whenever the best interests of the child and the protection and the best conditions for women — therefore, the highest quality in the provision of the service, are guaranteed and protected, so that it is very interesting to study, analyze and see the potentialities that this formula of travelling meeting points, and with what results it could have in our country. With regard to the third issue which is presented within the initiatives which the Socialist Party is currently defending, we also agree absolutely that we must analyze which protocols are being managed. We defend it in the Equality Commission and we repeat it again now: we have doubts as to whether it would not be better a model of management different from the meeting points, which does not depend on entities in the third sector and on the diversity of companies that end up dealing with these points. We know, from the experience accumulated over these years, that there are many deficiencies in the provision of the service, which is not uniform, which often depends on the persons and entities in charge of these services. He tells us that at least since the Children's Foundation, he's been working and pushing a protocol that, within its power, homogenizes the criteria he works for within these points. Also, with a social transformation perspective, we were talking about the increasing increase in cases of male violence, of points of encounter that have to be done with situations that are marked by orders of withdrawal or precautionary measures within the framework of judicial processes opened by cases of male violence. But we have to try to walk towards a society where family relationships improve, be healthier and less toxic. They also tell us — especially in Lugo, but it is also true, for example, in Ourense — that the placements are not the proper ones. In the case of the city of Ourense is in the Youth House the meeting point. We believe that for nothing it should be a place of this kind that holds such a fundamental service as this. We are also told that there are demands to ensure security, to ensure video surveillance, especially in the face of those cases that are judicialized — many of them because of situations of violence against men. Finally, we're going to support her. It seems to us, moreover, that this initiative is well-suited and well-managed. And, for my part, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Miranda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u167	Good afternoon, Mr. President, and companions. And a special greeting to the people who accompany us today. The first time I heard about the rights of children — so the girls didn't exist — was on a sheet of Mafalda that my father, the teacher, took on my bike. It was 1980 and it was Ortegal County. From that one until today I hope that something has moved forward, but there is still a lot of room to commit to the well-being of our country's children and children. And also with their families, these diverse spaces -- even though it costs someone to recognize it -- that should serve as support elements but also sometimes in trouble. Family meeting points are intended to facilitate contact in a neutral place between minors and members of their families in a crisis situation — as my companions said — of separation, divorce, guardianship, imprisonment, ill-treatment, or any circumstances that conflict the compliance of the visit regime. That service has become such an indispensable resource for our society that has been increasing its demand in a tremendously exponential way. The aim of the intervention is to normalize the situation of conflict, assisted by professionals in social education or family mediation. Another of the aspirations you must have is that families do not need this resource, and become autonomous in order to resolve their own conflicts. The goal will always be to ensure the primacy of the best interests of minors and minors. But the accessibility of these points, as my companions said, actually located in the seven cities of Greece, does not necessarily meet the criteria of equity in the territory. Not for a little girl from Ortegal, for a little girl from Valdeorras, for a little boy from the Navy or the low limit. From Honey to Ferrol there are 50 kilometers; from Valdeorras to Ourense, 112; from Ribadio to Lugo there are 100; and from Guard to Vigo there are 60. The seven meeting points are insufficient to address the needs of the most remote places in cities, and this is contrary to the principle of justice in the distribution of resources. That is why we anticipate that we will vote in favour of the PSdeG proposal. On the other hand, it would be absolutely necessary for each centre to be of direct and public management, which is not happening at the moment. The decree that regulates it already opens up the possibility of private management, once again opening the way for a business to be needed. Thus, of the cities of Greece, of the seven points, those of the Coruña and Pontevedra are managed by the Children's Foundation, which is a non-profit entity, that of Santiago, the Association Encounter; that of Lugo, the Social Way Foundation; and, attention, the ones of Ourense, Ferrol and Vigo by the company of Sociosanitary Services Eulen, which is a company that does indeed have a profit motive and which has by delegation to someone who is called Núñez Feijóo. She has a very prosperous temporary work section, according to her, she recognizes it in interviews, and a large business area in the health sector. Our position is, as always, not to market the solution to social needs, especially those that are most sensitive and vulnerable. Our group visited every family meeting point to know first-hand how it works. They made Marcos Cal, Paula Verao and Paula Quinteiro. With which we have a good thermometer of how you're working on them and their shortcomings, lack of resources and hours of attention. That's why we argue that a comprehensive diagnosis of the state of these points would be necessary. It is necessary for the staff who assist users to have the sensitivity that is required to deal with matters where emotions and conflicts are present in everyday life, and, in the interests of the opposite, always make the safety and physical, psychological and social well-being of the child prevail. There are, as my companions also said, complaints from users because children's and children's exchange schemes are not respected in the 15 days that the centers remain closed in the summer. And there's also waiting list for many of them. Some infrastructure does not guarantee the protection of women victims of male violence, as some women recognize. I had already commented on it by my companion, there are accesses through unfavorable streets that compromise her safety, and others, like Ourense's, as it has been said here, located in the Youth House, which does not seem the most suitable resource for this function. Family meeting points must also ensure the safety, physical well-being and psychological and social balance of victims of violence and vulnerable families. Watching for the best interests of the child also means watching for the protection of his battered mother. For that reason, the staff working in them must have sufficient training and experience in family matters, children, violence against men and conflict resolution. And it must also be remembered that a batterer is never, never, a good father. He said Arenal Conception that the good deal for girls and children is like the sun for flowers. Not enough food, care, cares and attention are needed. And he also said Karl Meninger that what is given to children and children will be returned entirely to society. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in favour of the Socialist Group's proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Miranda. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. I also greet the people who accompany us today in the rostrum. Nineteen years ago the Junta de Galicia opened the first meeting point, specifically in the city of Vigo, with an experimental character. Just a year later, the Government created the Welsh Network of Family Meeting Points, composed of seven points, and all of which held the title of the Galician Union, in the seven Greek cities. This network of meeting points began with an budget of EUR 150,000. Annually, Junta was increasing the budget for the operation of these resources, until 2018 to a budget of almost EUR 740,000. Since 2009 the Galician Union has invested more than 6.8 million euros in the Family Meeting Network. On the other hand, Junta launched a work performance plan in 2009 to condition and equip meeting points. The investment of the various actions carried out amounts to more than EUR 680,000. Specifically, in the three centres in the province of Coruña, 347,000 euros were invested in works of improvement; in Lugo, 40,000 euros; in Ourense, 53,000 euros; and in the province of Pontevedra, 246,000 euros. In relation to the process of review of the installations, the German Government began in 2011. The aim was to place all meeting points in public places properly conditioned to establish a network with the same services, uniting the characteristics of the centres. At present all family meeting points are located in public places that meet the requirements required by the current legislation. As a matter of fact, the inspection department of the Social Policy Council, as you know, will carry out all the inspections necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the family meeting points. With regard to the second point of the Socialist Initiative on Traveling Meeting Points, we, of course, did not share this formula because we believe that it is mandatory to guarantee families optimal conditions with the necessary infrastructure and staff. And, of course, we don't know if the roaming points are going to have these infrastructures, the necessary personnel and the essential quality service. Because the decree governing meeting points sets out specific requirements for both material and personnel and operation. That's why we consider this formula incompatible with the requirements set out in the decree. On the other hand, in relation to the increase in meeting points, if we share the socialist proposal, because the aim of the Galician Union is to provide a service of sufficient quality, stable quality and with adequate infrastructure and staff. The Galician Union has been reiterating in the Galician Parliament its desire to create new family meeting points in the areas where they need them. And we are convinced that this joint commitment will be reflected in the budgets for the year 2019 of the Social Policy Council. All parliamentary groups will have the opportunity to discuss these family meeting points in the Committee on Budgets. For our part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u171	We thank the support of the En Marea and BNG groups a priori. I don't know very well what I have to thank the People's Party or not, because I haven't been very clear about their support and whether it's going to be expressed or whether it postpones it. And this is a sponge, we'll see. What a pity on a matter that we consider to be very important in ensuring better protection for children! It's too bad that lack of coherence, again paraphrasing Mr. Tellado — I like what Mr. Tellado says a lot — between what they say and what they do, right? What a pity, what a shame, that some things are said in the Equality Commission and then others are shown here! Because today they made it clear, once again, that you see only what you want to see; and what you don't, obviously or hide it. In any case, it is also necessary to report here today as in our seven meeting points — as some of the visitors have commented — there are actually waiting lists between six and seven months; the situation that has already been reported again and again. It is very interesting to see, in addition, how the official accounting of the number of users and users has declined in recent years. Surprising! And yet, in addition, the Prosecutor's Office itself, in its memories over the last three years, refers to saturation and worrying waiting lists. How can you explain then that you have lowered the number of users and users? Well, it's very simple: because until 2013 there was no time limitation to make use of PEF. But since the decree of 2014 those who cannot directly access meeting points enter a waiting list that prevents them from entering statistically as users and users, and, in addition, the limitation to two years as users makes many fewer people access. In short, for the Galician Union, family conflicts are due to expire for two years, obviously conflict is not a concept that can always be solved. This isn't a sanitary, there are conflicts that remain for life, sadly; by setting an example, the cases of drug addiction or alcoholism of one of the progenitors. The limitation of access in time is a clear symptom of failure of what should be understood as a stable, open and accessible equipment. So how can we summarize the general situation with regard to meeting points?: null knowledge of the citizenship of this resource, statistical concealment of the real demand of these points, necessary improvement of the conditions of access and security of existing facilities, and — no doubt the most important — to put the interests of the children and the children before the rest of the interest. And this can only be achieved by allowing these resources to arrive and allow true equality of opportunity for all the smaller Greeks, whether they live in urban or rural areas, and increasing their number and studying formulas that fit the Greek geographic reality. We see that this study is not necessary, that the People's Party has already done so at home and has already made the decision that it won't work here. It's a shame -- I insist -- that this group of government doesn't understand that makeup is good for seeing and seeing a better one. But in social policy, the focus is on others to help them get better every day. That's social politics, and that's being consistent between what is said and what is done. So we'll be careful about their future coherence. In any case, we have given them a point-by-point vote so that they can be added from today's commitment to accept the increase in meeting points throughout Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the performances to be carried out in connection with the presentation of the creditor pre-competition by the company that manages the Povervisa private hospital and the concert that maintains with Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u173	A self-amendment was introduced by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and another amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u174	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u175	Good afternoon. I want to begin by greeting the members of the Povervisa Business Committee, who are accompanying us today from the rostrum. Today, in fact, the BNG brings here an initiative to discuss the situation of Povervisa, the concert that Sergas holds with this private hospital of Povervisa, which, to remember, is the most expensive concert not only of Galician public health, but also of public health throughout the Spanish state; a private hospital, Povervisa, which belongs to the holding of Our Land XXI, in front of which is the vigue-Silveira entrepreneur and who receives public money not only for this concert with Povervisa but also for other concessions, such as the Maritime Rescue Service. I mean, we're talking about a question, a business start, that has a strong relationship with the Galician Public Administration. The management of the private hospital Povvisa presented creditors' pre-competition last 28 September claiming economic losses, as justified, caused by the last concert signed with Sergas in 2014. Indeed, on September 1, 2014, the Galego Health Service formalized a new concert with Policlinico Vigo S.A. —a new one, because concerts have been signed since the time of Health and every new concert with economic improvements. And, in this case, in 2014, for the provision of specialized assistance, to assist the population of the municipalities of Cangas, Moaña, Baiona, Nigrán, Gondomar and a part of the neighbors of Vigo. This concert has conditioned the design of Vigo's health area as a whole and has segregated public health resources to fund this concert, which is worth more than 600 million euros for a period of eight years, i.e. more than 80 million euros a year plus VAT. In 2017, there were eighty-two million out of all the taxes and all the Welsh, to which other costs must be added, such as billing for reference services such as maxillofacial or hand surgery, which does not have public health in the Vigo health area. So suppose the surrender to a private company of a very important part of the hospital care of the south of Pontevedra province. Sergas therefore renewed this singular concert — very singular, I would say — with Povervisa with greater economic importance than the previous concerts. As I said earlier, every concert for the most part, despite the fact that at the time of 2014 it had reduced resources for public health in more than 12% of Galicia's health budgets. With this, the Povisa group was able to condition the planned development for the Vigo health area, in particular for the development of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, which had planned 1,470 beds; four hundred beds were cut into various services, which made the Povisa hospital become essential to provide public health assistance in the south of Pontevedra, in the Vigo health area, with which the Povisa group managed to maintain a dominant position in negotiations with the Union. Therefore, the action carried out by the People's Party on Galicia's board in the health area of Vigo allows this nefarious dependence on a private business group that obviously seeks its economic benefit and which is able to condition the development of a public hospital, increase health expenditure and blackmail, on the one hand, to the population and, on the other, to its workers. And right now, with this presentation of this acres pre-competition, because it has in town the 1,400 workers and the population it has to refer to, which is now approaching 138,000 people. Therefore, the situation of Povervisa is the responsibility of both the People's Party and the Board that has waged to condition this health area of Vigo to continue to hold this millionaire concert with Povervisa, a company that, I insist, systematically uses blackmail, and in this blackmail uses hostages to the patients and the workers and workers of this company. The strategy is always the same, creating an alarm situation between the population that cannot continue the provision of health care and between the workers with the threat of ERE of layoffs, adjustments and continuing, of which it is expert, has been doing so for many years. That's why today's BNG brings here this initiative with an extensive resolution, to which we tabled an amendment after the events of the presentation of the initiative were clarifying the situation of maintaining, too, meetings with the representatives of the workers and workers. The first part of the initiative is that the Government is present, which comes in this parliament to account for everything related to the singular concert between Sergas and Povvisa. There is sufficient social and labor alarm created for the Government to report here, at parliamentary headquarters, what is the situation, what is it negotiating, report on the basis that it is reviewing the concert, whether it is going to give in to the company's holdings and what conditions. There must be light and tachographs in negotiations, enough opacity! We're talking about public funds of more than 600 million euros, public resources that come out of the taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks, and we have the right to know how they're investing, how they're managing. We're talking about health care for about 138,000 people, about 1,400 workers, and it's necessary for the Greek Government to report at parliamentary headquarters on the basis of which it is negotiating. Because the company still presented a creditor's pre-competition on 28 September, and still last Friday presented the accounts at commercial headquarters; with which, we don't really know on the basis of which accounts it presents creditors' pre-competition, because, of course, the company will know what the accounts are, but of course, it's public and notorious that we don't know what these accounts are, like Sergas yes, but we need this parliament to really explain what accounts are. The second point is that an audit is carried out immediately so that we really know what these accounts are from which a detailed report contains the accounts that the company has not yet presented — as I have said — in the Commercial Register, and there is no breakdown of the expenditure that is intended to care for public and private patients. The number of beds in the hospital is fifty-hundred, four hundred public and one hundred twenty-three private, it uses the same staff to care for public patients and private patients; we don't know how that breakdown does, it doesn't appear to be disaggregated. We want to know the technological innovations to which Povervisa charges, whether at the concert or not, whether technological renewal is included in the concert. Of course, the information we have is not included in the concert that technological renewal is due to the concert. We want to know how this is imputed; the improvements it has made in the infrastructures and they are doing we want to know how Povervisa is imputing them, whether it is imputing them to the concert or not. It's, of course, very difficult to know the real destiny of the money that the Greeks and the Greeks paid for health care and that we don't know how Povervisa is charging them and what it's spending on them, nor do we know what control Sergas is doing with this public money. It is also necessary to know what is the professional/patient ratio, plant service professionals, permanence of the same, working conditions, hourly mobility and interservices; what is the exact destination of the public resources that Povisa receives from the contract signed with Sergas; how much is intended for staff and whether the staff charged with this concert only attends public users or whether it also attends private users; how much it represents patient maintenance, how much personal it does, in how many shifts... It's a lot of incognitas and, of course, you have to know with light and tachygraphs what this situation is. It is necessary to clarify the cluster of cross-interests, rotational doors. Rocío Mosquera passes from Our Lady of Hope to the manager of Sergas, from there to the council and again to Galaria; Maria Luísa Brant from the certification company Galaria and from there to Povisa. There are a lot of questions that need to be clarified, and that's why we need clarification in an audit. We want Sergas to be shielded in the negotiation with Povervisa the working conditions, wages and the maintenance of the staff's jobs, which is guaranteed with Povervisa. It can't be that the staff are still money changers. It has to be clear that you have to care for patients who are assigned to the quality ratio and professionals equal to the average of public hospitals and the Galego Health Service. Povervisa constantly maintains a situation of labour conflict, he cannot continue to maintain this situation. They've been on the frozen agreement for eight years, they haven't paid any wages. There have been daily reductions, almost the entire group of clinic assistants and janitors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u176	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u177	...journament reduction, they didn't agree to request a reduction of the day. It's an obligation of the company. I fire the plant janitors and have to assume the auxiliaries these functions without increasing the staff. Today we're also downgrading nursing days. In total more than a hundred workers and workers fired in recent years. Reduced staff days have an impact on the attention of users. There are slots at which staff is reduced to a minimum, waiting for patients to be cared for as much as they need. They need full days for all the staff. This is the situation they've been working for years at the Povisa hospital. The company...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u179	...—referred, President- alludes every time there's a new concert to sign that if you don't sign it there must be a reduction in working conditions; you sign a new contract and those better ones never get to the staff. This situation has to change, and every time we see through the media that there are negotiations between Sergas and Povervisa, these negotiations cannot be exclusively for the improvement of the economic conditions of the company, but these improvements have to reach the health care of patients and the job improvements of professionals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u180	Thank you, thank you very much. I look forward to voting in favour of the groups represented here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u182	Thank you, President. I also want to greet the representatives of the workers of Povervisa who are here today and who have been here since the morning, who are doing a noble and very true important defense of their jobs. Today we're dealing with a topic of relevance, a subject that in itself should have been dealt with already, probably in another format, probably with the counselor's appearance at some point — which is actually neither expected nor expected — because this counselor, the truth, anything that has to do with Greek health seems not to go with the advice. Even in the last few days we're seeing some relevant changes because they're being pushed through the back door, because it's kind of messed up that they're doing with the pediatricians, it's bullshit! [[Applause]] But, finally, speaking of Povisa, Vigo has a very special circumstance that in this case shows: Vigo has the largest population of Galicia, Vigo's health is the largest in Galicia, and yet has a problem, a different treatment, serves in some way as an experiment laboratory of new health models. It has a curiosity, and is that practically no patient in Vigo's health area can assume to be treated entirely and entirely within the public system, because either they do it in a private-owned hospital, with which there is a concert, like Povvisa, or they do it in a built hospital, managed, at least in half, by a private company and about which we are paying a lot of money, a lot of millions of euros in renting canon from the hospital and with which we have to arrange lots of negotiations to incorporate material, to make medical decisions with private companies, with CIFs that have dispatch in the public sectors of Galicia. And this is Vigo's model. [[Applause]] In this, what we see is that there is an inequity of the inhabitants of the population of the health area of Vigo with respect to the rest of Galicia; they do not have the same treatment, because even the Povisa hospital doesn't have to guarantee the same health qualities as the other hospitals. And that's unfair. We are breaking the fairness of the system, which is a principle that is insurmountable to us. We clearly argue that there has to be a clear fairness between patients, wherever they are, where they live. And this isn't happening in Vigo, and that's the problem. There's a second problem. When the private company has the ability to manage a public service such as health, it has no priority in defending the existential quality of patients. His first goal is benefit. And when they shock business benefits and the quality of care we have this problem, which patients are used as hostages, so we have a serious problem with the current situation. What should we do for the solution? There is, or at least, an understanding of what we must do. There are two priorities, one that is the care quality of patients. We argue that patients in the Vigo health area must have the same care guarantee as all other inhabitants of Galicia, the same. And that doesn't exist now. [[Applause]] The second essential issue is to defend workers' rights, because they're giving a service to Welsh health, and we must also defend those rights. There has been, of course, the possibility of having an agreement in this Parliament, to which by other matters — which do not correspond now — it has not arrived at that moment, very few weeks ago, in the debate of the state of Autonomy, but now there is this possibility and there can still be this possibility. From our group, what we're thinking is that this is an immediate short-term solution, but we're proposing an amendment, why? Because there has to be a vision of the future. What is the vision of the future? To ensure that we don't have the same happens again, and we have to study all the ways, all the ways possible so that this doesn't happen again, because we all know what will happen again. When you sign a convention again, Povervisa will arrive and say he'll lose it again, and there'll be again to negotiate, because he'll put back the hostage patients. And if we know it, we have to solve it. And this is what we think through this amendment. An amendment that proposes that we have a vision of the future and that we study all the possibilities for citizens in the Vigo health area to have that guarantee of equal treatment. It happens — and now if I may allow you to make this exception of my remaining time — that there is a self-amendment that I want to mention. First of all, I think it's the moment this parliament has to raise some things like, for example, how self-amendments are used. Because it is true that a self-ment has been raised that we have asked ourselves a number of questions. First, why, why self-amendment? Because if so many things have changed, you haven't even defended the self-amendment up here. There are questions that go to that self-amendment that have not been defended here. And second question, I think it's an unsuccessful negotiator technique to come up with an agreement today that we buy the hospital — which is what the other amendment says — to say that we first buy and then we'll see the price. It's not the best negotiator technique in the world, because that's what we're defending if we approve the self-amendment: buy the Povervisa hospital. And it's not acceptable. To give easy, easy solutions, complex problems has a name and it's not a way of solving, and that can't be accepted, because if it had so much justification, it didn't even defend itself here. I think it's necessary for us to reach an agreement. [[Applause]] If an agreement was possible, that from our group we believe that with the original proposal from BNG it was possible to meet all of us, it is the best we can tell the inhabitants of the Vigo health area, and also the workers, that there is an agreement from this parliament, and it was possible, except that what we are looking for is disagreement, and we believe that this should not be the solution. We're sure it's not, but it seems, and therefore we believe it's possible, and we believe, therefore, that our amendment can perfectly transform itself from adding, because self-amendments do not allow us to work on the final self-amendment, which is a trick used curiously at half an hour of recording the amendments, and it was registered. The amendment we propose, which was of added importance, you can assume as a replacement amendment to the last point of the proposal, and so we would be giving a resolution on what the BNG spokesperson proposed, which in everything you put up here is right. It's necessary to know what's going on with that agreement, as it might be possible to use as a hostage a convention of which there is no fine, no impediment to breach. Can you threaten to break that agreement? It shouldn't have been possible, and everything you've been thinking about here is perfectly viable, and it also posed future solutions, but it doesn't happen to assume that we're going to buy the hospital and that then we'll see the price, because yesterday you take pictures with Feijóo and today tell Silveira that we're going to buy the hospital... I come a moment that I don't know where we're looking. So that's the possibility, and we thought that our amendment would go that way, that would replace the last point of the new self-amendment that the proposed group makes, and there I think we could all be. If that's possible, we will give the inhabitants of Vigo and the workers of Povisa a good solution, and, above all, we will also look at the future so that it will not happen again, and that's what we think can be assumed by everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u183	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u184	Thank you, President. Let's think about 2005, 13 years ago, I remember the weekend with a nose on a medication car, leaving almost always late, sometimes an hour late at work, hours that were given to the company over and over again. I remember running through the corridors, I remember crying out of the job for if the job was not well done, I remember seeing my companions and coworkers come out crying, and unfortunately that hasn't changed in the last few years. And then came the cameras in the corridors to control the staff, then came the warnings that if the staff were sitting to rest, then came the pay cuts, then came the hour cuts and then came, too, the layoffs. I'm obviously talking about Povervisa, and I'm talking about the life of the comrades and the companions who are sitting upstairs, to those who today I have to thank for being here. It was formed in 1969, started operating in 1973 and began its expansion and increase in care at the outset of the conventions, with the public authorities, first with the Institut Social da Marina and then with the Insaud. Once the competitions passed to our autonomy, to the Health Council — in this case the Galician Health Service — the concerts were assumed, practically without blinking, and from there the concert after the concert in optimal and advantageous conditions for the company's benefits. In 1993, with Mr. Fraga's Government, the first concert. In 1996, with a high increase in the public cost and in the number of cards provided, and practically at the time of the establishment of this structural feature which has been transferred to the Board of Auditors. There is another relevant one, that of the year 2000, where the medical specialty blockage was introduced. It was renewed later in 2006, and renewed in 2014. And of course, there was a possibility of having a public hospital to stop granting benefits to this private company, but the PP didn't want it. There are three hundred and ninety-four beds less at Álvaro Cunqueiro, seventy-one minus at Mexeiroiro and fifty-two minus at Nicolás Peña with reordination. It's fifty-seven beds less to continue securing Mr. Silveira's business. But, of course, only to guarantee Mr. Silveira's business, not to guarantee the working conditions of the company's staff. Because all those millions, over all those years, weren't, of course, to improve working conditions. You remember the indefinite strike of 2013, and I'm not going any further, remember the protests, remember the demonstrations. Because we were there, because the union power stations were there and because the Galician board laughed again at the company's staff. The company threatening to apply redundancies and ERE. They remember that as of 2010 wage freezes, collective agreement freezes — which expired at that time — and dismissals: twenty-seven cleaning workers, eleven administrative staff and a 46% reduction in the day's work. Since then we have asked him to maintain the quality of health care and work. In 2014 new threats to the workers, and by that time Mr. Feijóo went out saying it was very important to renew the contract because it depended on his families, but little did he care that after giving him a new concert in 2014, only a few months later, in February, we had to attend our country's new threats from the company, threats with redundancies and threats with an ERE, a few months after signing that new concert. Do you remember the mobilizations? We remember them, because we were there, humbly supporting what the workers could. ERE of fifty-six workers and workers, thirty-four allegedly for economic reasons — a few months after signing a multimillionaire concert — and twenty-two for supposedly organisational causes, to outsource services, to further worsen the quality of work in the company. And in the meantime the threats have not ceased, the blackmails continue that the company was going wrong, once again since the 1990s, and they needed more public money, and the wages while the workers and workers frozen since the year 2010, lose in some cases 22% of the salary due to the cuts in the days. You can't live like this. Comrade Manuel Lago spoke in the morning about the conditions of workers in the processing sector. These workers and workers can't live with a 22% cut in wages and increasingly precarious conditions. It's a shame the Board feels to negotiate these conditions, without the accounts being deposited in the Commercial Register. In the light of the absence of accounts in the Register of Goods, she complained to the Institute of Accounting and the Audit of Accounts at the beginning of the month. Oh, surprise!, a week later the company had deposited some accounts that had to be deposited in July, at most, this same year. You're selling public health at the cost of giving money to private health, which will not stop at the very best of the wage and labor conditions of people who don't have the responsibility of using an entrepreneur who lives continuously at the expense of the public era. We're going to support the LNP, we're also surprised by the amendment, and we're going to wait to see what happens with the two amendments, we think that we should study the method. In any case, we are going to support it regardless of what happens in the two amendments, because we believe it is a declaration of intent; that should be studied correctly, and we believe that the will of the groups must be to support health care, and of course quality in employment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u186	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Greeting the people at the Povisa hospital who accompany us to the rostrum. It is no doubt surprising, ladies and gentlemen, that a concert signed by a Government of the PP — these people who are dedicated to destroying public health and giving it to the private company, all by ideology, of course — provokes a contest of creditors in a private hospital arranged. Surprise. Of course, it breaks the constant discourse of the opposition on privatization, which they hold in this parliament. Of course, Mrs. Prado said that every new concert that was signed was improved. Much improvement shouldn't be when the Povervisa hospital is in the situation we can see and what we're talking about today. In the face of the problem of Povervisa's situation, each opposition group goes into its own air. By the way, I wanted to remember that the subscription to Povervisa is voluntary, it's not mandatory, before I forget. The spokesperson for the Tides, Mr. Villares, said that his training was not to allow him to pay twice, first for the concerts and now to rescue a concession or service that he had to be in the public. It has ensured, according to the media, that if private health fails, that the Union must take care of expanding the public system to ensure the provision, and it has defended the integration of the entire public health area. In short, it is stated, because in the short term we have clear that there would be no other solution. On the other hand, the mayor of Vigo said: "Faijó must act now and not leave to 137,000 patients and 1,400 jobs.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh In the case of Povervisa, he urged Sergas to offer an immediate solution, because, "the concert signed on his day is insufficient to care for the population, and the Galician Government should immediately resolve in favour of Povervisa.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I mean, more money for Povervisa, which is all the opposite of what I thought at Marea. Nor do they seem to match many of the mayor's statements with the amendment Mr. Torrado tabled, but... well. So who should we listen to? Who pays attention to the Government of Unity? Who are you two? I, of course, didn't see any kind of positioning of the BNG group in the Welsh press in the press, and there was no positioning, and I was bringing before self-imposed a neutral initiative, urging them to appear, audit and perform the performances to guarantee health care to 139,000 people and to the 1,400 workers affected by the Povervisa situation, and to whom it is clear that it should not be very consistent, because it has already been self-imposed. Of course, neither in the initiative, nor in the amendment, nor any speech proposed any action or solution, nor any clear stance, outside the statement, too. He states the BNG in his text: "The Povvisa group was able to condition the planned development of 1,470 beds for the hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, which was cut in the four hundredths of the singular concert. This cut allowed him to keep the concert, the most expensive in the Spanish state, and to reach a dominant position in negotiations with the Union.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh It seems hard to believe this paragraph in the face of the hospital situation. He also says, "For the performance of the People's Party in the Union, Vigo's health area maintains a bad dependence on a private business group, which seeks its economic benefit and which is able to condition the development of the Álvaro Cunqueiro hospital.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh You dare say it's the People's Party's fault? What I have here in hand is the basic health agreement in the health area of Vigo signed in 2006, signed by the excellent health adviser, Ms María José Vidal Rubio — Government bipartisan with the Nationalist Galego Block — the representative of UXT and Commissions, the representative of the IGC, the representative of the entrepreneurs, the representative of the University of Vigo and Mr Silveira for Povisa. Of course, no one in the People's Party ever attended there. [[Murmurs.]] And let's see what it says: "Basic principles, point 3: This framework of dialogue aims at certain measures that guarantee: the financial sustainability of the public system in Galicia;" — when a government thinks about financial sustainability, and when not government does not stop thinking. "the orderly and planned development of public and private assistance resources providing concerted assistance in Vigo; and the commitment to the maintenance of employment in the health sector in Vigo, both in the public and in the private sphere"—only of what may be affected by the changes carried out as a result of the construction process of the new university hospital in Vigo. It has a lot to do with what we hear here. "The concert with Povervisa" — I also said — "must guarantee the activity and quality necessary to maintain current employment in all specialties, and we note the desirability of maintaining and enhancing the instruments of public-private consultation and cooperation. We see the need to reduce administrative processing times, leading to the construction of the new Vigo hospital, so that works can be bided before the end of 2007." [[Protests.]] Of course, there are many more points, neither works nor hospitals, there were models, there were no works, there was no hospital. What's going on is that it's very different, ladies and gentlemen, to be in opposition to the Government; in the opposition it's done in one way and in the Government it seems like it's done in another. [[Applause]] Fortunately, since 2009 there has been a government of the People's Party, and there's a hospital in Vigo, there's a hospital in Vigo despite you. There's a new hospital in Vigo. The Health Council is working on a solution for the people and the workers of the Povisa hospital, which is Vigo's second staff company, with meetings with all sides, and we trust, from the majority group, that this situation is resolved as quickly as possible. I ask the opposition groups to let the Government work quietly to fix the situation. We must stop messing around, Mrs. Prado. Vigo's people and his kiss and the workers will thank him. We adopted a motion for a resolution a few days ago from which we are not going to press: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to maintain the level of care quality in the population assigned to Povervisa and to protect existing jobs within the framework of the obligations agreed on in the agreement signed between Sergas and the hospital." That's all I have to say. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u187	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u188	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I want to thank the favourable vote expressed by En Marea. And I'm not going to confuse myself as an adversary, Mr. Torrado, so of course! [[Murmurs.]] Look, the BNG made a self-amendment because it presented this initiative on October 4, and since October 4, we've been getting to know things, we've met with the company committee -- today represented here -- and we've made a self-amendment, a part of it -- which you referred to -- which we've already presented as a motion for a resolution in the debate of the state of the nation. Without any problem, I didn't defend him is because he didn't give me time, because, Mr. President, I'm always wrapped up, and he didn't give me time! And I have absolutely no problem, because in the BNG we have very clear which side we are on. [[Laughter]] Of course, we're not on the employer's side, I don't know others, we're not on the employer's side. We are on the side of the workers and the workers who bear the pressure and extortion of the employer, with constant threats and the quality of care. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And what the last paragraph says, because the most extensive part of the self-amendment is that which refers to the part of the workers and workers — who read it — and I have that part that I am going to read now, which says, "to put in place all the necessary actions to ensure that the whole area of health of Vigo and the population has health care in public health." Including the passage from Povisa to Sergas hospital in case the health care of the registered population and the jobs are not guaranteed. Because we're not willing to blackmail Povervisa's permanent blackmail! And if that blackmail stays, yes sir, it is if that blackmail stays!, to have courage — that's how banks are rescued, and there's money to rescue banks and so on — that Povisa passes to public health with all the consequences, including workers and workers. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] With all the letters! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u189	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u190	I'm sorry. Mr. Torrado, this amendment was tabled yesterday, an hour and a half before the deadline was finished, and half an hour before the amendment. Without any scurantism, hour and half before the end of the deadline and half an hour before the amendment. With which, please, sometimes overacting-- I don't think it's necessary to confuse yourself as an enemy and the overacting remains. Overacting's up! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] With which, returning to this bench...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u191	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u192	Coming back...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u193	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u194	Going back to this bench...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u195	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u196	What is the People's Party afraid of?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u197	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u198	To an audit where you know how to spend Povervisa charges?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u199	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u200	How do you know it doesn't make a difference between public and private? How do you know that the money from the improvements in the infrastructure you pay them with the concept instead of the money from the infrastructure? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u201	Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u202	What do you know that technological innovations pay for the concert? What if he knows he's got the staff under conditions he shouldn't have? Is the People's Party afraid of all this? Is that why you vote against it? [[Murmurs.]] Because the first point says: an audit. [[Murmurs.]] Well, you know what's going on with Povervisa. Why are they going to vote against an audit? Question! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u203	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u204	An audit, the second!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u205	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u206	The working conditions of the staff are shielded?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u207	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u208	Are you against the staff's working conditions being shielded? Are they also against it? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u209	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u210	Oh, but they're going to vote against it! Because that's what you're going to vote for. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u211	Quiet. You're not the right one. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u212	Workers' working conditions must be shielded! That's what they're going to vote for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u213	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u214	That's what you're going to vote for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u215	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u216	And the third part, which sets in motion all the actions to ensure that everyone in Vigo's health area has health care in public health. Are they going to vote against it? Well, I'm saying it so you know what you're going to vote against.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u217	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u218	I'm saying it so you know which side they're on. Of course, the employer — as always — and his business.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Well, then we proceed to the votes. Close the doors, please. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Silence, please, Mr. Pazos. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. Now we're going to vote, which is a serious act. Let's vote. Voting of non-legislative proposals We begin by voting for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Maria Soraya Salorio Portal. The amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group was not accepted. Voting of the motion for a non-law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia before the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries to counter the effect of the measures taken by the health authorities on anisakis. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u220	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was not accepted. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego's non-legislative proposal, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the processing of the sectoral project of the supra-municipal impact of the land of Ence in Lourizán, as well as the demands to be made by the Central Government regarding the extension agreement in the concession adopted on 20 January 2016. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u221	Attention, please. Attention, because, if you don't, then we always go through the polls and then we have to be correcting. We now vote one that I've already commented on before it was very long, which goes on the subject of the minstrel. And not to read it all, because it had an enunciation — as you know — that they were concrete measures that had to be taken with regard to this problem. I was waiting for a transaction, I don't know if they got to her. And there was also a vote by points requested by the People's Parliamentary Group. What are you talking about, Mr. Pérez Seco?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u222	We accept what En Marea adds, and we do not accept that of the People's Party, nor the point vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u223	Okay. Perfect. Vote of the compromised text of the Proposal for a non-law of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the official declaration as the plague of Vespa in the autonomous community, as well as address the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food to review the version adopted by the State Commission for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity of 14 November 2014 and the Sectoral Conference on the Environment on 16 April 2015 called Strategy for Management, Control and Possible Eradication of Asian avian bird or blackbird and transfer to European institutions the urgency of the environmental situation that is happening in Galicia to approach it within the European Union and define a Community strategy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u224	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms Marta Nóvoa Iglesias. I think there's a transaction. If you don't read it, Mrs. Novoa...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u225	Yes, thank you, President. There was a transaction counting all groups and it says: """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" 1. To put in place, and before the end of the 2018 budgetary year, the compensation provided for in additional provision 100th Quadrixth Fifth of Law 6/2018, of 3 July, of general State budgets for the year 2018, amounting to 150 million euros. These compensations must be conditional on investments for the future technological viability of factories and the maintenance of employment. 2. A new compensation scheme for additional costs included in the price of electricity supported by electro-intensive industries may be introduced for exercise 2019 et seq.. These compensations must be conditional on investments for the future technological viability of factories and the maintenance of employment. 3. That for the next few years all the necessary compensation mechanisms should be established, according to the affected autonomous communities, so that these types of industries compete on an equal footing with their European counterparts. These compensations must be conditional on investments for the future technological viability of factories and the maintenance of employment. 4. To ask the company Alcoa to reconsider and withdraw from the job termination file on the entire staff in its Coruña factory, attempting to find solutions among all the affected political, economic and social agents, and opening a negotiating table with all the parties involved to seek a solution; solutions that have to present lines of appropriate and future actions that guarantee the maintenance of production and employment in the Coruña factory."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u226	Thank you. Vote of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the Popular Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Marta Nóvoa Iglesias and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the compensation aid for additional costs incurred by electrointensive industries, provided in the additional provision of the 100th-fourth fifth of the General Budget Act of the State for 2018, amounting to 150 million euros. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This text was therefore unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u227	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal. I didn't accept the amendments, did I? Did you both accept them? [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] So then we voted with the incorporated amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal, to vote on the request of the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Ecological Transition for the implementation of the necessary amendments to enable the provision of the social bonus by all electricity companies. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u228	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Maria Luisa Pierres López. There are no amendments. Vote of the Non-Legal Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López, on the actions to be carried out by the Council of Galicia in relation to the extension of the network of family meeting points to the entire territory of Galicia, as well as the improvement of the protocol and conditions of access of users to its facilities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u229	Finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Maria Montserrat Prado Cores. Did you accept the amendment of the Socialist Group? Didn't you accept it? [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Pause.]] [[Mr. Torrado Quintela asks for the floor.]] I'm sorry. You asked for the word Mr. Torrado, for? Give a voice to Mr. Torrado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u230	Yes, thank you, President. As we did not know whether or not the amendment was accepted, and as we expressed in the statement that we were in favour of virtually all the points, except the last one with the purchase of the hospital, we wanted to request the vote by points, separating only the last one and grouping all the others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u231	Yes, Mrs. Prado?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u232	I don't have a problem accepting the amendment, it's annulled by the content of the amendment. I mean, it's not a matter of not accepting it, it's accepted as an addendum.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u233	Accept it as added. [[Murmurs.]] Let's see, that's it! [[Murmurs.]] Accept it as added, but with built-in self-amendment. Of course. Then I do allow him, but to me it is clear. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u234	Yes, President, thank you. This is the problem of self-amendment. What we proposed is, given the self-amendment, that we proposed it as a substitute for the last point. If it's not accepted as a substitute for the last point, what we're asking is to vote on points the initiative that BNG presented with its own self-amendment, but voted on by points to that of BNG. That's what we propose: the last one and all the others we want to vote in favour of the workers' defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u235	You have the floor to Mrs. Prado. Do you accept that vote, as you have presented it? If you accept it... well, you'll see. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He asks you if you can vote for points after all he said. Vote for points? Well, then. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, sorry, I'm talking. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, quiet. No, quiet. Let's vote. We're going to vote, which is what interests here. Now let's see how we vote this because it's complicated, so let's see the Legal Services advise me how we vote this, because it's not easy. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please, calm down. It's just that I don't know how they all talk at the same time I don't know what they mean. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence, therefore, for silence! [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. No, it's the same, we're going to vote. The President must know what is going to be voted on and must order how the debate is done, therefore, silence, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What do you say?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u236	Less than the last one, that goes away.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u237	So we vote all the points but the last one. Is that right, Counselor? Perfect. Let's vote. That's it, it's easy, it's easy if we all calm down. Well, all of them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're going to vote as Mrs. Cores said. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, he said all the points but the last one. All right, all right. We vote. [[Murmurs.]] Well, I think she explained it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let the Juridical Services come. Whether it's going to be a comma or a dot thing in the end. Let's see, the Juridical Services. Calm down, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's nothing else to do. We're not in a hurry. Quiet, please, calm, calm. It is very important to order as you vote. I'm glad we're being asked... we're going to know what we're voting for, quiet everybody. Quiet, please, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's all right with you, it's all right. [[Pause.]] We shall order the vote. Excuse me, one second, again. Let's see, Mrs. Prado, see if I understand now, because that's what I'm talking about. You tell me if you're okay or you're wrong. I'd rather talk, just a second. So we would vote on the proposal with the self-amendment incorporated and we would turn that into points. One point would be the first, with the built-in self-amendment, which has two subpoints, to understand us. And the second point would be, in my opinion, what it says: "To put in place all the necessary actions so that before the totalization of Vigo's health area...". Is that the second point? [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Is that so? Then. Do you understand now? You got it. You got it, I got it. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, please read us if it's important to know what we're going to vote on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u238	Yes, I will read it and regret that Members and Members seem so kind...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u239	No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u240	...when there are workers and workers awaiting a situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u241	No, no. Quiet. No, no, we're not going to that. Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, quiet! Please, if it's not me... it's very difficult to find out if we're not silent, then we have to know what we vote for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u242	The first point. "The Galician Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to come to Parliament to take account of everything related to the singular concert signed between Sergas and Povervisa; to conduct an audit of the accounts and management carried out by Povisa on the concert signed with Sergas; to carry out all actions to ensure the health care of 139,000 persons and the working conditions of the 1,400 workers and workers affected by the situation in Povervisa; and to ensure that the conditions of work are shielded by Sergas in the negotiations with Povisa; and to ensure that Povervisa meets the patients who have signed with quality and professionalism ratios and professionals comparable to the average of the public hospitals of the Galician Health Service." And two: "What meets the end of the second sentence, health benefits of the concert signed with Sergas, which says that Povisa is obliged to follow and comply with all the rules, instructions, programmes and organizational criteria established by Sergas concerning the services included in the object of this concert. It must also comply with the provisions and implementing rules laid down by Sergas for its own centres." This would be a block, and now, apart from this, it would be voted on, which is, "To put in place all the necessary actions so that as soon as the entire population of the Vigo health area can have hospital care in public health, including the passage from the Povisa Hospital to Sergas in case the health care of the registered population and the jobs are not guaranteed."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u243	That's right. We vote. Let's vote for this. The first part, of course, as it is. A point of order was asked to vote. 1st point vote of the proposed non-law of the G.P. by Da María Monserrat Prado Cores, on the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores, on the performances to be carried out in connection with the presentation by the company that manages the Povervisa private hospital and the concert he holds with Sergas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u244	Let us now vote on the second point. Second point vote on the proposed non-law of the G.P. by Da María Monserrat Prado Cores, on the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores, on the performances to be carried out in connection with the presentation by the company that manages the Povervisa private hospital and the concert he holds with Sergas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u245	So this proposal is rejected, not by law. They've finished voting and I'd ask them, please, in the future... because, of course, complicating is easy, but putting it easy is hard, too, but if we could count we'd end up with this whole problem: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 20, 40... numbering, please, would be easier. That's it. Yes, it would be easier, it's a request I make them, nothing more. [[Murmurs.]] It's over. Thank you. Interpellations, which is item 4 of the agenda. Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and four other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the execution of works of rural infrastructures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u246	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u247	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counsellor, congratulations on your new responsibility, and from the Socialists' Parliamentary Group we hope that your management at the Rural Council is marked by the impulse of the rural environment in any of the Greek municipalities, regardless of their local government. [[Applause]] Look, Counsellor, I know that today you are going to respond to the actions of a council that you were not conducting, but I hope you will take note so that you can correct certain ways of acting that we — the socialists, at least — do not consider the most appropriate ones. Today, as it is the first time I ask you about it, I'm going to tell you a story. This tale is titled You'll bring it, that I'll fix it for you. This story is developed in a region of Europe called Galicia. It was once a government of the People's Party of Galicia that in the 21st century drew up a plan called the Rural Infrastructure Plan 2018-2019. A plan to improve the living conditions of the population in rural nuclei. A plan that integrates into a rural strategy that makes that Union of Galicia, that government of the People's Party of Galicia, to set up population in rural areas and to facilitate its settlement and dynamization. A plan that the Government of Galicia's PP doesn't publish anywhere. The knowledge of this plan comes from an information note to the media — do you know it? — that hangs on the website of the Council of Galicia on September 6, 2018 on the agreements of the Council of the Union. And this plan says, "Junta spends 2.7 million euros improving rural infrastructure in sixty-five Greek municipalities. The Council of the German Government today activated the Rural Infrastructure Plan corresponding to the year 2018. These funds will allow you to condition roads, install water or irrigation pipelines, or rebuild stone walls on municipal roads, among other actions." I mean, on the same day that the activation of the plan hangs, the Town Councils are already activated and the counties that will receive the rural municipalities that are grateful for that plan are activated. That's right, neither the list of municipalities nor the amounts that each of these municipalities will receive. In this tale, Counselor, the summons of the plan, if any, would be something similar to what I will expose you. Rural Infrastructure Plan 2018-2019 (PIR), you're bringing in that I'll already fix it. Object and purpose of the summons: works of rural infrastructure, roads, supply, water and other channels, according to convention. Application submission: face-to-face. The mayor or deputy mayor approaches the Rural Councillor's Office and asks the advisor, in this case the advisor, the project he considers. Supplementary documentation: the project or memory of the work that the mayor or mayor wants to take in that face request before the counsellor, in that case the counsellor. Evaluation Board: the adviser or person to whom you delegate. Procedure for granting: here are objective criteria and subjective criteria. The objective criteria, according to the words of the Director-General for Rural Development themselves, are: they're going to bring them in and we're going to put them to the point of urgency and need. And the subjective criterion — understood in its perception of subjective what makes judgments of value by letting themselves be carried away by feelings — is to have a local government of the People's Party, except for some small, very small, exception. [[Applause]] This last criterion is the most important thing in the bar, Counselor. [[Applause]] Look, this way we're sitting sixty-five municipalities benefited, fifty-six of the People's Party, that is, 86%. By the way, I'm going to leave here to the Presidency all the data. I say it because if not, sometimes, Mrs. Paula Prado and others tell us that we have come here without any documentation. Thank you, Mr. President. Do you like the story, Counselor? Probably if he were mayor of some county ruled by the People's Party he'd be happy, because that's the subjective criterion he has the most weight. But if he was mayor of the rest of Galician municipalities, which they didn't even have the chance to opt for this plan, he certainly didn't like the plan so much. Isn't that right, Counselor? Isn't that true? I'm sure not. Counsellor, I almost forget that in the invitations for grants there is something, there is always an article that refers to transparency and good government, a law approved by the Bipartite who was later reformed in 2016 by the Government of Mr. Núñez Feijóo. And of course, I'm telling you again the words of the Director-General for Rural Development, who told us in the commission that you — the Galician Union — are doing with transparency because otherwise I wouldn't have known that this plan existed. I don't know if to laugh or cry. Frankly, Counselor, I don't think it's too serious. Well, sixty-five Town Councils, Counsellor, which the Director General of Rural Development read to us at Commission 7 on 2 October 2018, and although he had just given us a copy, at the end of the Commission I was asked for a copy and he said he would send it. [[Applause]] We're still waiting, Counselor, we're still waiting. But since we're workers, we've heard the video a few times and made a list that I leave here to Mr. President to bring her near. And the truth is we know the municipalities, which we don't know are the counts of the arrivals to these municipalities blessed by the sacred finger of the Rural Councillory. I haven't been able to find him either on the Middle Rural Council page or on the Transparency Portal and good government. Look, I put first "Plans and programs from the Rural Council" and they only come out of forest fires. And when I put "Rural Infrastructure Plan" on him, he tells me: there's no performance. Transparency page of Galician Union itself. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows you a document to the members of the House.]] [[Mr Rodríguez Rumbo gives a document to the President.]] I mean, you take a budget share of EUR 2.7 million, activate the municipalities of urgency and the need that subjectively — you know that feeling — consider, lay them down and call them plan. There's the plan. That's beautiful! The truth is it's a good story, Counselor. Doesn't sound like a story, does it? No, no, no, no. The reality is how it manages certain plans of the Galician Union ruled by the People's Party. I hope that you will change this way of ruling and, above all, in this fundamental council for Galicia. Look, Counsellor: I will also remind you that, apart from the Transparency and Good Government Act, there has been unanimous adoption at the 2014 debate session of a resolution that also refers to this, and says, "Rejecting discrimination produced on the basis of non-discriminatory and unjustified elements, including local-oriented accounts." I'm sorry about the public budget allocation for the Galician Union. I've got him here too so you can see that we've always been documented. And it was adopted unanimously of the sixty-nine Members present at that time. [[Mr Rodríguez Rumbo gives a document to the President.]] Look, Counselor: once again, though Mr. President of Galicia told us in the debate of the state of autonomy that they don't make what they do, once again I show you that you do what they do. Make them do it all the time! But look, I can give you more evidence of that subjective criterion that alludes to feeling, to affection, to favor yours, that is, to the People's Party. Plan Hurbe 2014-2017: 66 municipalities, 93.94 % of the People's Party. Grants from the Presidency Council to improve infrastructure and equipment in the Greek municipalities of 2016: 75 municipalities; 59 from the People's Party, 79%. Territorial Environment and Planning Council for the creation or improvement of infrastructure and equipment in the municipalities of Galicia in 2018 — four million three hundred thousand — 19 municipalities; 15 of the People's Party, i.e. 79%. And the Rural Media Council, in the Rural Infrastructure Plan 2018-2019: 65 municipalities; 56 of the People's Party, that is, 86% of the municipalities are from the People's Party. That's the subjective criterion I've been commenting on before. Counsellor, in just these four programs we're talking about more than €22.5 million in two years that you distribute according to the convention. Counsellor, why don't you use these funds and really increase the Local Cooperation Fund on that unconditional part? That's why it's the Local Cooperation Fund, and not, as the Vice President wants to convince us, for those who activate them and according to their convenience. I remind you, Counsellor, that according to the Director-General for Rural Development, these 2.7 million euros are own funds. So nothing prevents them from raising the core fund of the Local Cooperation Fund.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u248	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u249	Counsellor, you know the territorial structure of Galicia perfectly; you know that, of 313 municipalities, 258 are less than 10,000 inhabitants. Do you consider, Counsellor, that these 258 municipalities do not have various needs and emergencies to attend to their citizenship?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u250	Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u251	I'm done, sir...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u252	He's got another round later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u253	On the second round I'll follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u254	Thank you. [[Applause]] Answer from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u255	Good afternoon, ladies. First of all, thank you very much for your congratulations, Mrs. Rumbo. It didn't make it clear to me, as was the intervention, whether they were congratulations or if you wanted to give me some broncas, but I'm going to try to give you an answer by understanding, firstly, that talking about rural infrastructures in no case can be a story; it's a problem that affects our rural community and, in addition, it's an act of the Council which, of course, abounds in the need to fix population in rural areas and solve the problems that many of our municipalities have. [[Laughter]] And, by the way, even though I'll tell you later about the municipalities in which you worked, it's already ahead of you that it's not 2,700,000 euros, but it's 2,699,570 euros, which is... Mrs. Rumbo, it's funny to you, but it's just half that -- now they criticize you -- made the Bipartite, which devoted more than five million euros to this. Look: the 2018 Rural Infrastructure Plan foresees, as you said, the signing of a total of 64 conventions in 65 municipalities. Infrastructure improvement plans are distributed by provinces as follows: 14 in the province of Coruña, 19 in Lugo -- where, by the way, there is a joint performance in the municipalities of Becerreá and Triacastela -- 20 in Ourense and 12 in Pontevedra. For 46 of these 64 conventions, authorization, signature, of the Board of Directors is required due to its multi-year nature, which are those I think you referred to: 2018 and 2019. These amount to 2,265,000 euros; therefore, there's one more; then I'll tell you about them. What do you do with these RIRs? See: within this year, the following actions are carried out: the conditioning of a total of one hundred twenty-five existing roads, with a length of — it will appear — of more than seventy-three kilometers; the installation of more than five meters of water and irrigation pipelines; the conditioning of 3,780 square metres of surroundings of a square fence; the construction of a well buried for irrigation and fire; the total or partial reconstruction of more than two hundred meters of stone wall on roads. Home! They're infrastructure, Mrs. Rumbo, and they're also needed in the municipalities. This rural infrastructure plan has important benefits for citizens, as it involves the repair and renewal of all kinds of infrastructure that will improve the living conditions of the population in rural nuclei. For us, for this party, improving infrastructure has been one of the essential strategies to contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of the rural population and to facilitate its dynamization. What is the difference in this Rural Infrastructure Plan with respect to other actions that may have the same purpose? Here we work by valuing urgency, typology, and of course also the characteristics of performance. We understand that it is important to contribute to these types of projects, while they are, without any doubt — and I have just mentioned — an improvement in the quality of life of the rural population. In these adjudications, the urgency and the need to provide the municipalities with infrastructure shortages — and the poor state of infrastructure — are at the expense of not imposing a brake on their development and, of course, also for the growth of the municipality. These actions are financed from entirely own funds, which results in an important budgetary effort and at the same time responds to an incessant demand from the municipalities with shortcomings or infrastructures in poor condition, causing them a notorious problem that impedes their progress. Look: I received four mayors today; three were of one party — of mine, of the People's Party — and another was of another party. We've been talking about this Rural Infrastructure Plan with the four mayors, and an era of their particular party. Ladies and gentlemen, infrastructures in the Italian countryside are a first-rate need to improve the quality of life of their people. Having well-conditioned rural roads, suitable access to farms and population nuclei, and having suitable clues to promote the mobility of citizens, in our opinion, is essential to carry out productive activities linked to the field and which are vital to the implementation or development of social activities, such as those that approach basic services to the population. In addition to the RIP -- this is not a novelty -- it's been on the table for many years -- we also work with the Framework Plan. The RIP this year is two million — almost seven hundred thousand euros, and the improvement plan is provided with sixteen million euros, which allow for the expansion, improvement or maintenance of the municipal roads throughout Galicia. In the framework plan, the distribution of funds is made by the Galician Rural Development Agency with an agreement with the Fegamp, with distribution criteria which have a fixed base of fifteen thousand euros per locality, and which is increasing on the basis of concepts such as number of inhabitants, the surface, weight of agriculture, as well as the degree of ageing or depopulation — I think important criteria. These subsidisable actions must be carried out in Galicia, with the exception of the areas covered by the urban perimeters of large cities, and, as a general rule, are subsidisable investments necessary for works of improvement, maintenance or expansion of the existing road network. Look: I've also had the precaution of... Not precaution, but occupation and concern to know how the Rural Infrastructure Plan actually works. So I want to bring here, first of all, also the president, Decree 246/1992. It's been around for twenty-five years, and it gives the possibility that these actions can be done with the criteria that I have just reported: indeed, of urgency in processing. [[Mr. González Vázquez gives a document to the President.]] And I also want to explain to all parliamentarians what the procedure or concession of the RIP is, because in the story that Mrs. Rumbo said it is the counselor who decides all these things... the advisor — she said — because I haven't decided anything yet. The procedure always begins, Mrs Rumbo, not by the councillor, but by the Directorate-General for Rural Development and, indeed, it is the mayors of all the political parties in the rural areas of Galicia who expose their projects resulting from urgency and necessity. I'd like you to see the photos of some of those projects that I had occasion to see today to see how some of those performances were going to be done. Once action is proposed by the mayor — who is in no way granted there, of course — the procedure is carried out by the Project Supervision Service. There's a specific service run by officials, Mrs Rumbo, not politicians, who evaluate projects. Then we analyze the memory, budget and all the conditions of the projects. And once the process of monitoring projects passes, a letter is sent to the council, according to the decree, in which it is requested to confirm the availability of the land, the granting of the necessary permits and, of course, also to exempt us from the collection of the municipal fee. Having received this commitment from the municipalities, the agreement is not implemented, because this is an agreement in accordance with the decree, but it is passed on to the Legal Counsel and, in favour of this report, it is passed on to the Intervention, which is the one to decide and the one to release the funds. I remind you that officials, not politicians, are also part of the Legal Advisory and Intervention. Subsequently, this agreement between the council and the Council is signed and then, of course, it is executed, but — and I am finished — in the proceedings — also in execution — there is a chief of work who is an official, a director of work who is in control of the whole procedure. Therefore, Mrs Rumbo — and I will finish — of course I do not think it is a story and it is not a question of what we can laugh at — the importance of rural infrastructures, and we are there to support all the rural municipalities of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u256	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u257	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, "blondie," to you, in no way. At the beginning of my speech, I told someone that we have to ask for explanations for how to make this plan and that I trust his person so that, after twenty-five years of that decree to which you yourself referred, they change the ways of acting, because we are already in the 21st century and, therefore, we no longer need to act with that obscurantism and we have to do an important work in favour of transparency. Look, when you tell me this isn't a story; I told you in my speech, precisely, it wasn't a story, which is very important, and the Rural Councillory is a fundamental councillor for Galicia. So we don't feel like receiving this is the way to act. You talk to me of one hundred twenty-five roads, over seventy-three kilometers, plumbing... we're not questioning the works, at all, but those works could also be done exactly as a public summons to which all the Greek municipalities could come, and not have to do a romary of mayors and mayors passing through a councillor's office to get the performances they need. [[Applause]] That doesn't seem right to us, that seems more like a cacical act than a 21st-century act. Mr Counsellor, precisely, you speak of them as own funds and therefore I urge you: since they are own funds, nothing prevents them — one of them — from making a public summons or increasing the Local Cooperation Fund in the base. And so it's going to be split by the same... well, not by the same, but with the criteria previously established among all the Greek municipalities. You're talking about four mayors or mayors today. Well, I consider that a government, among its functions, should receive all governments, regardless of their colour. I'd just miss it! But look, I'll ask you a question again: do you consider that the municipalities that are left outside don't have various needs and emergencies to attend to your citizenship? Answer me. Do you think that the men and women of Galicia deserve us to be treated differently by the Galician Union, depending on the political color of the local government we have in the county where we are living? Is that so, Counselor? It must be borne in mind, in addition, that the resources that are distributed are from all the Greeks and all the Greeks. So we should all have the same deal in principle. I think this is not a way of ruling according to the transparency and good government that is supposed to be in the 21st century, and I remind you that you refer to a decree that has been handed down twenty-five years ago — twenty-five years ago! — that has come into force and, therefore, it is time to change it. I insist: I trust your good work to change this once and for all, and I would also like to ask the previous advisor, since it is rural municipalities that have urgency and need, if Ourense city — Ourense municipality — will be among the most needed rural municipalities of rural infrastructure. Well, said this, I insist: you have our vote, we hope that this will change, but you really wonder if this is the best way of ruling and managing — I insist — the resources of everyone and everyone. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u258	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Shut up by the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u259	Mrs. Rumbo, don't take the "bitch" literally, it wasn't... Let's see: I have to tell you that, as far as rural infrastructure is concerned, we work with a framework plan, which has criteria agreed with the Fegamp, where I think that we are all political parties, and that you have a budget allocation enough to be able to make a call with certain criteria: sixteen million euros. And then we've enabled a nearly 2.7 million euros -- this year -- to work on rural infrastructures at the demand of municipalities that have an emergency to apply, and there we... I listened to it carefully and I'm going to try to explain and give you some more data. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Of course, I am a councillor of the Rural Middle of all the municipalities of the Greek countryside, and I receive in my office all the mayors who ask of me, within my capabilities. I don't know if at other times the exact same thing happened, or if you looked at the political color of the concellers. What I do know is that this way of doing politics was already at that time, and I know that you weren't here in the Bipartite, but you were already at that time, and they were divided, every year -- in 2007 and 2008 -- by this same criterion, five million euros. [[Murmurs.]] But, in addition, in the framework plan... No, we're talking about 2.7 million. It looks like a lot to you, and I'm telling you, at that point, double was shared, yes, by the same procedure. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] But in addition to that, in the framework plan — which was called those PEINs, the Strategic Rural Infrastructure Plan — there were a number of additional projects that increased the allocation of funds for a number of specified municipalities without any criteria at all. It was a lot more money than we're talking about here. And speaking, ladies and gentlemen, of the councils: I did the work of taking what was done in each of them. For example, in the province of Coruña, in which they are approved by the Council of the Union, there is a council -- I don't know who rules in it -- Mesia, which is the third most funds received to make a path to the Tieira da Baiuca. There's another municipality, Sobrerado — I don't know who's running there — improvement in the pavement on Grandameá track at the municipal limit. There are PP municipalities, of course, but did you do the bills? There's more of the PSOE. There's Becerrea and Tricastela, I told you before, and I think it also rules the PSOE, for the improvement of the firm of the way of Albela. There's Monterroso, who also rules the PSOE. But look, there's also Calvos de Randín, Mrs. Rumbo: it improves on its way to Serois, almost twenty-five thousand euros. There's Manzaneda, Mr. Rodríguez, Mr. Rodríguez, there's Manzaneda. But there's also... but I'm telling you, let's see! [[Mr. Rodríguez Estévez speaks words that are not perceived.]] I come here to say that we're making a plan where we only support PP Town Councils, and it turns out I'm saying municipalities governed by other parties and taking the joke. I don't understand the thing! [[Applause]] I think, ladies and gentlemen, I am discrediting with data what Mrs Rumbo was saying, with all due respect. Disbelieving with data, because I missed that near you is also the Poor Trives, which I don't think is governed by the PP either: improvement of the municipal road of Aldea Grande, Cova. Mrs. Rumbo, take the information better. I have no drawback, exercising that transparency, to give you the information. Mrs. Rumbo, Mrs. Rumbo, if you'd like me to give you the investment accounts you made in the Town Councils. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] You're talking... you know, it's hard to replicate me when I can only talk, but you're talking about the percentage that the PP councils represent about the total. Do you make the percentage accounts that represent the municipalities of PP in rural areas, because you know what's going on? In rural, most voters vote for the PP. Do you know what's going on? [[Applause]] And let me finish. [[Balbordo.]] You do the math... you do the math... [[Murmurs.]] I, Mr. President, would ask you... because, if you don't, I can't argue. You do the math, and I have no drawback...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u260	Sorry, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u261	But he's missing a data. Listen to me and then we'll do the math for you and me, if you like. Look, you have to do the math too, not just from the municipalities, but also from what is given to each municipality, and I've already told you... well, but it's only for that transparency that you ask for this data and we'll transfer it to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u262	Don't talk to her, because she'll talk to you... silence. No, what she likes is to tell her that, precisely, what a dialogue with her. Then don't get into that game now. [[Laughter]] Don't get into that game, because if it's not a mess.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u263	Mr President, you have to apologize for not long ago, as you all know, for changing the suit of parliamentarian. Even though I'm still a member of parliament and a counselor, it still costs me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u264	He's all right, both of you!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u265	I finish by saying and saying that the People's Party, and this advisor is the councillor of the People's Party of the Rural Environment, defends all the rural municipalities, and we understand that working for rural infrastructure is good for our rural and for its dynamisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u266	Thank you, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. In Marea, on Sergas' policy in the field of staff recruitment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u267	You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u268	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. Almuinha. Well, you know that there are professionals of the ongoing pending attention points, also from the rostrum and their homes, to this debate, to those we want to give you, of course, the welcome and actions in that struggle that have been going on, not only for a few days, but for a lot of time, for your work rights and for defending public health against the worsening of the care quality motivated by the cuts. You've been failing the rights of health care professionals for years. Years, they're in. Months! In addition, ignoring demands: urgent demands, unacceptable demands, the specific demands of the professionals of the continuing attention points. And yet it took only a few hours to non-compliance with the minimum strike services of the staff of the continued attention points, Mr. Almuña. And I'm going to go back, precisely, to the Health Committee last week, in which the spokesperson of the People's Party said to see if the strike did not produce any assistance problems. A joke, a bad joke. Who produces care problems is the Health Council itself, you and the Galego Health Service, when he is unable to maintain the necessary professionals, not even to maintain the minimum services; his minimum services, those you impose, which are 100 percent. You know, Mr. Padre, why is that? That's because professionals work all year long under minimums, worse than the minimum services of a strike. That's the situation that's been denouncing professionals for a long time, that's the situation. The CAP professionals attend consultations, the CAP professionals attend domiciles, the CAP professionals attend and attend health emergencies in collaboration with the 061. But, Mr. Almuña, the CAP staff does an excellent job that doesn't fit their work, the work they have to provide the Health Council to provide resources, to give more staff, to have the service in optimal conditions to provide health care. Professionals are despised, they're obvious, and you keep yourself totally impatient, treating these people as if they were professional or second-hand. Your cuts in primary care, Mr. Morning, suggest the increase in frequency at the continued attention points. Waiting for more than a week, more than ten days to be able to be cared for by the doctor or the doctor, nurse or primary care nurse, means the increase in frequency of the continued attention points. Your Honor, the aging of the population also means an increase in the frequency of the continuing attention points. There's not enough staff in primary care, there's not enough staff in home hospital, there's not enough professionals in the rest of the services. And, Mr. Almuña, their cuts in coverage of lower and primary care permits and at their own continuing care points also increase frequency and, of course, increase the workload. And, Mr. Almuña, your failure to plan and not cover the necessary equipment from the continuing care points endangers people's lives and health, and unfortunately — we've been discussing this situation for a couple of months — we'll see you this summer at the Continued Road Care Point. A disgrace, Mr. Almuño, that the staff had been reporting for a long time what could happen. I invite you, Mr Counsellor, to read the Diary of Sessions and to see the videos of Commission 5a, in which over the last few years opposition groups, all opposition groups, have moved initiatives denouncing the lack of coverage of teams of the continuing attention points and primary care centres throughout the country. I invite you to see them. It is one of the elements that, in addition, they denounced and claimed to you — and they tell you that they met with you and the People's Parliamentary Group — in those demands that have moved since the beginning of their mobilisations: complete equipment, nursing professionals, medical professionals. It's not that hard, Mr. Padre. With regard to the working hours of the staff: it's a shame that the days are overdue because you don't plan the service correctly. Target criteria must be available to provide continued attention points. We talked about it the other day in the Health Committee, which is also related to primary care. We need to take into account the criteria for dispersal; we need to take into account the length of the other health care points; we need to take into account the need for exit and, of course, the situation of the population from rural to urban. These differences must be designed by teams of the continuing attention points; they must be equipped and cannot be discovered. You have to also count the time in the way, that time that takes not only to move a patient into an ambulance in 061, but to return, and unfortunately, on occasion, when you leave unnecessarily the points of continued attention, you can assist in that same center. And, of course, if you fly, you pay 100 percent of all the night and holiday supplements. It's a demand for minimums that the professionals have to do: to pay them the nights they do, to pay them the holidays. You charge for the hours that you do? I charge for the hours I do, and other professionals also charge for the hours I do. Diets are covered. Why can't the professionals at the continuing attention points charge 100 percent of the nights, 100 percent of the Sundays, of the holidays they're doing? Obviously, it's a labour demand, but it's also a demand for justice, Mr. Almuña. And something that's totally indecent: that they're made up of temporary disabilities and paid permits as time to be recovered. It's indecent that a person may die his mother or father and that he has to recover the hours. That violates the working rights of any worker or worker, and it happens at the continuing points of attention of our public health system, Mr. Almuña. You can't despise professionals like that. And it's been months since they were able to agree with them to provide these wages and return these rights. How long do you think Galician Union is still holding on to this situation? Do you intend to change the recruitment policy of the Galego Health Service to ensure decent working conditions by eliminating that precariousness? Are you planning on solving the complaints structurally in our country's primary care? What is the action plan that will be carried out to maintain the quality of care in the Galician Health Service, primary care and continuing care points? What is the action plan that will be carried out for the maintenance of this quality of care? We want to know if you are going to increase these professionals; there are no specific divisions — we are studying the budgets just presented — to improve this situation. And we started having problems also in specialized care: we started having a wait-list bubble -- we'll talk about that another time. But, of course, there is a brutal structural gap in primary care and also in the continuing attention points. And what are the lines of political action that will be carried out to cover these casualties and holidays? There is not a single useful measure, simply measures to piss off and bind professionals more than it has to do with pediatricians in our country. We'll talk about it on another occasion, Mr. Almuña. But there is no measure in the Law on tax and administrative measures, there is no measure in the Memory of Budgets, there are no matches that indicate that you will correct this situation, and it seems that neither in these negotiations — which we understand are practically negotiating anything — in which you have been taking a static step since you were asked to sit down and negotiate. And unfortunately, the staff had to go to a strike not because of taste, but because you don't feel or give them the minimum working rights. Look, Mr. Almuña: Precautionary is such that, given the strike and despite the strike, you still have ongoing attention points discovered since the protests of the professionals and the strike began. And they moved them -- and you know them, besides, by the press, because they sent them to the press yesterday -- many points that were discovered only during these days: The continued point of attention of Moaña, which was left without optional on Wednesday 17th in the afternoon, was covered by an optional of the Cangas CAP; i.e., we take from a continuous point of attention to take him to another. In the committee I've already said that during the past Christmas happened the same thing in the Coruña, where a professional from the continuing point of attention moved to cover another continuing point of attention, that of Vimianzo. And we have a problem, Mr. Padre, because you don't learn. We had a misfortune, a preventable misfortune or not, but that would at least have less chance of happening if there were professionals, if there were available attention to care for the person who was indisposed and who was seeking attention from an hour ago at the Continued Road Care Point. PAC of the Guard, Saturday afternoon's 20th till 8 o'clock on Sunday: there was just one professional, a doctor in the center one day with a significant increase in the care load. Parda's CAP, turn late, Saturday, 20: one of the two optionals on a shift where you usually have three. You're irresponsible! With all the letters! After death at the Road CAP, after the problems we've been reporting for years, after the protests by the professionals, after the strike... and they follow and continue, even today, with this situation and not to present a single measure to improve or to try to alleviate this situation. I'm going to finish now because I don't have time left on this shift. You have to take care of these demands. I hope you answer something that can satisfy the professionals, because, of course, they won't stop until you return the quality of care and return dignity to work that performs excellently. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u269	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u270	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, professionals of the continuing attention points. Mrs. Solla, we cannot allow ourselves to be led by the demagoxy of the dismantling and the cuts, topics to which they continue to resort repeatedly. You can't put your deaths on top of the debates, although today for the first time he talks about it can be avoidable or not avoidable; he didn't say so again. I'm so insistent in this speech that some may even believe it, generating an unfair social alarm for patients and for professionals and unwarranted, only with the objective of a potential partisan benefit. And it's unwarranted by everything I'm going to expose by bringing data, facts, realities. Mrs Solla, is it possible to maintain that there is a dismantling of primary care when the last health barometer published by the Ministry of Health reflects that about 90 percent of the Greeks indicate that they receive good or very good primary health care? Mrs. Solla, do you think that the citizenship of Greece is being dismantled when three out of four people in Galicia choose to go to the public health service instead of the private one? Mrs Solla, can you talk about dismantling primary care when the number of family doctors increased by seven percent, going from 2,434 in 2008 — Government of the Bipartite — to 2,601 last year 2017? Or when the 2009-2017 investment in Sergas health centers exceeded sixty-six million euros? Primary care is in a constant evolution of adaptation to needs at every moment and in constant renewal and setting up new challenges, new goals. Changes that involve an effort for everyone: for professionals, for managers, but we always think about the benefit of patients. The current challenges of primary care are well known to you: chronicity, population aging and geographic dispersion. And since the Greek health system, we're working to give them an answer. Primary care must be resolute, with adequate diagnostic and therapeutic capacity, which assumes as its challenge the management of chronicity through the following principles that are collected in the Welsh Strategy for attention to people in chronic situations, which will be published and given to know all professionals and citizenship in the coming days. On the one hand, the proactivity of the system: getting ahead of the problem. We have a record of unquestionable value, such as electronic clinical history, with which, in any situation or circumstance, we can know the different peculiarities, diseases, diagnoses and treatments that are following patients. The second point is the co-responsibility, with a corresponding patient, an expert patient who participates in decision-making on their health. And a third point — also very important in chronicity, now and in the future — is socio-health coordination. That is why we also have an interdepartmental commission between the Social Policy Council and the Health Council to improve this coordination and, above all, to ensure that the patient does not cease to be at a time in the health field and to jump to the socio-health field. Let me go back to the data. In both previous and current legislation, different public job offers were made on an annual basis, exhausting the maximum rate of replacement. In fact, public job offers were maintained and increased quantitatively. The offer of 2016 was eight hundred and eighty-eight squares, to practically double in 2017, with a total of six hundred and sixteen squares. The additional payment of December 2012 was recovered by raising one percent of the remunerations in 2016, the return of the additional specific supplement of January and February 2013, the recovery of days of free provision on additional vacation days or maternity protection. Law 9/2017, of 26 December, of tax and administrative measures, recognized the right of professionals in situations of maternity and paternity, of risk during pregnancy and risk during lactation to receive the average of wages paid the previous year in terms of care continued by guards, evenings and holidays. In the Budget Act of 2017, it was observed to recover the additional specific supplements of the extra payments for June and December, as well as an increase of one percent more than the increase in salaries. From the 2019 budget we'll talk about next week at our meeting next Tuesday. In April 2017, we took an important step with the signing of the employment stability plan and the provision of staff statistics for Sergas 2017-2018, in which we represent our commitment to reducing temporality in the Galician Health Service, and that will allow to reduce to five percent the percentage that represents the potential staff. By the way, this Employment Stability and Staff Regulations plan has been approved with most union representatives of the workers. Through Law 1/2018 of 2 April, amending the Galician Health Act, we refer to the open and permanent transfer contest, in order to enhance the reconciliation of the working and family life of Sergas professionals, as well as the permanent coverage of care needs, with an open system to facilitate the voluntary mobility of staff with an annual allocation of destinations. The first calls under this new system have already been made. In total there were 300 nine adjudications; two hundred ninety-three are family doctors who could — as I say, in a much shorter process than up to this point — move to a destination they consider to be better. It was also the reform of the Health Act, at the initiative of the current autonomous Government, which introduced the concept of "professional itineraries" to encourage the occupation of jobs by different professional categories, to which the same title is required in order to ensure the coverage of the public care squares. We have prioritized in the last OPE the categories of the first level of care, such as family doctors, primary care pediatricians or nurses who specialize in family and community nursing; also, as you know, a creation of which we were pioneers in the Galician Health Service and which, of course, we continue to enhance in the different OPEs. And in the last quarter of the year, the public job offer — OPE 2018 — will be approved, exhausting the replacement rate and, of course, giving very high figures as well. Among the significant categories that are offered are: family doctor, primary care pediatrician, nursing family and community specialist, nursing pediatrician — as I said before — new categories of nursing specialist created in Sergas for primary care — and physiotherapist. Since the Galician Health Service we have seen measures such as the increase in the supply of MIR squares. Thus, this year's biggest offer was made in recent years, with four hundred and four squares, and the family and community medicine squares were raised to one hundred and five — seven squares more than in 2017. We maintain the commitment to achieve greater personnel stability quotas and to maintain the replacement rate for their staff. Thus, public employment offers in recent years have focused on primary care. In this regard, the tests will be held on 25 November to cover 200 health care facilities. In total, in the period 2012-2017, 1,358 hospitals of family doctors and nurses were offered. We also boost the retention of talent by incorporating a policy of flexible retirement age, allowing professionals to continue in the active service beyond the fulfillment of the sixty-five years in all categories and specialties. In this year 2018 we started for the first time in Galicia a real ordinary professional career system for all professional groups of the Galician Health Service. This system will allow more than twenty-two thousand degree recognitions in this year 2018, with a payment that will start by 2019. This professional career recognition places Galicia as one of the autonomous communities that recognizes the career of the acting staff, full of rights to the same level as the staff. And also, at a table on October 16th, it was agreed that the long-term replacement staff could opt for the appointment of remand and, at the same time, access to the ordinary career system. Ladies and gentlemen, we have professionals committed to and cared for by the organization, a flexible and open organization to everything that contributes to the improvement of our health system. And so we'll keep working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u271	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u272	Thank you, President. Counselor, the questions here we ask them. You're the defendant and, for the moment, the counselor. For now. And look, of course the professionals are competent, Mr. Almuño, the problem is that you are not; you are incompetent. I'm not able to plan the needs of the continuing attention points and, even on the day off, leave us deprived of the necessary equipment. Tell us about the points of continuous attention, Mr. Almuña; don't talk about crumbs. And please talk about flexible retirement age policy when first practically extorted professionals to retire in advance and now they're asking you not to retire because they have a very serious problem — very serious! — with some professional categories is almost insulting. You should be a little quieter — my recommendation — to talk about the retirement age of health professionals. [[Murmurs.]] That you talk about reconciliation when there are professionals who are not allowed times of breastfeeding in primary care and in the CAP, Mr. Almuña, unfortunately, it's a bad joke, Mr. Counsellor. That's reality; you come here to transfer something that doesn't exist on paper. And you can assume from many agreements, but I wonder why you don't pay 100 percent of the work of the professionals. Why don't they cover what they just moved? Why do we have to keep waiting for you to come here to move once more an ad without giving a single solution? Don't give it to me if you don't want it, but give it to the professionals, because they've been waiting for months, and they've finally had to call a strike because you ignore it. They ignored it when they warned them that a misfortune was going to happen. Unfortunately it happened, Mr. Almuño, but unfortunately it could have happened many more times. I've just moved some of the centers that professionals have reported that since the start of the strike they have been deprived of equipment necessary for health care. Two weeks after what happened on the Road — two weeks later! — a child at the Cuntis CAP was left unattended because there was no health care, Mr Almuín; he had to pick him up on the road for an ambulance. That can't be done anymore in our public health system, and you have to sit down and take action. You don't have to leave the professionals at the stake and under those conditions, going bad at home because you have to work in conditions where you don't know if someone's going to be in danger or going to have a problem when they're not working at the CAP. And when they're not working on the CAP, they're working somewhere else. Of course we have good professionals, of course they're very competent, but they're few, Mr. Padre, and they're underpaid. And you have the responsibility to answer. I think it's indecent that a strike is called, that we have a minimum service of 100 percent and that you're not even able to cover those minimum services of 100 percent. I told him about the Moaña CAP, I told him about the Cangas CAP, I told him about the Guard's CAP, I told him about the Parda CAP... and they also transferred that from the Cambados CAP -- the absence of a doctor in emergency care from eight to three on Saturday 19. You can't go on like this after what just happened. We don't want to bring this back here. And that you say and accuse us of taking advantage and doing demagogy is repugnant, Counselor, it's repugnant! Because I'd like not to have to be here talking about this and our spokesman would like not to have to do the control session to ask you about it, Mr. Feijóo, after the summer turn. We'd like to never have to talk about this, professionals wouldn't want to have to call a strike. But unfortunately, you don't listen until something happens, that's the problem. We've seen him over and over again: we've seen him with hepatitis, we've seen him in the CHUS E.R., we've seen him in mental health care in our country... and you're still taking no note. I would ask you, please, to give an answer -- one, one! -- something you're going to do, please, to put more personal at the points of continued attention. It's okay to talk about OPE, it's right; I'd also like you to transfer us as they do the calculation of professionals, because we still have no group the same data that you have, Mr. Almuña. I don't know if they don't count retirements... it would be nice if one day we had a round table to talk about this. But now give us answers. Give an answer to the people who have to go to the E.R. because you don't put professionals in primary care and waiting is more than a week for ordinary attention or urgent attention, Mr. Almuña. This can't be. We have a serious problem, and you are responsible for the Council — for now — and you must give some sort of answer. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u273	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close this interrogation, Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u274	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. When there's no reason, insults start: calling this counselor incompetent and extorting, I think it doesn't solve anything at all, but it usually uses it when there's no arguments left to really talk about the issues you have to talk about. Look: as far as the points of continuous attention are concerned, it must be remembered that they were created by a decree on 172/1995 of 18 May, which was approved by the Outpatient Emergency Plan of the Autonomous Community, to provide urgent health care in the field of primary care, and to advise Mr. Romay Beccaría. The Galician Health Service consists of 90 continuous care points distributed throughout the autonomous community, which in 2017 made more than one and a half million assistances, of which ninety percent were resolved — as I say — in the CAP without need of derivation. So we know that we have a very good service of continued care at the Galician CAP, with magnificent professionals. In 2009, there were four hundred and fifty-seven doctors in the CAP, as we count in 2018, who have ninety-two more doctors besides doctors from health centers who make voluntary guards. Article 5 of that decree provides precisely for the establishment of the staff to be counted by the CAP. For years now, the CAP has been constantly analysing workloads to strengthen and reorganize troops. Assistance at the continuing care points is covered by health care workers — family medicine professionals and nursing professionals — on a continuous schedule, from fifteen hours to eight hours the next day, to carry out urgent care in primary care, and during the twenty-four hours at weekend and holidays. All the continuing points of attention have a complete team of medicine and nursing, and resources are established on the basis of objective criteria, based on workload, dispersion, distribution, distance from the hospital, number of mobilizations for the 061... so as to guarantee the right to care. Regarding staff demands, Sergas maintains dialogue and has a positive position to continue negotiating with the CAP representatives. At no time has the Health Council stood up from that table; we continue to hope that these meetings will continue. Five meetings were held on 21 September and negotiations between the Sergas and the staff of the CAP continue to be open and active through this technical commission delegated to the Sectoral Bureau to study the demands of the collective. There are agreements already within that table, such as diet coupons, eliminating ADX -- in the objectives -- the percentage of derivations, the staffing of individual protective equipment or the theme of work clothes, such as the circuit. There are a number of agreements and we want to keep negotiating so we can reach more agreements. Of course, we understand that the work these professionals do is a great job. But of course, when political representation is put in place and, in this case, Mrs Solla, speaking from demagogy, to say she gives answers, she gives solutions, she deceives many people by giving answers that sometimes cannot happen. The fact is that when they ruled, and ruled for four years, in the Bipartite there was an improved plan, a report where it was requested that, due to the inefficiencies of the CAP, of very few interventions and actions of the teams, what was to be done was to close the CAP. That was the solution of the Bipartite to the CAP. We are obviously not on that line, Mrs Solla. [[Murmurs.]] In the coming years we will continue to build 17 new health centres. We therefore want to encourage the citizen's closest assistance with a renewed primary care network. According to the latest Annual Report of the National Health System of the Ministry of Health, in 2016 Galicia was the third autonomous community with a greater number of health centres in absolute numbers, 300 ninety-four, just below Catalonia and Andalusia, both communities — as you well know — with a population much larger than Galicia. Another aspect of what we're working on, because we think it's a completely necessary tool for the evolution of our health system, is the incorporation of innovation and new technologies into primary care for the benefit of the patient and how it improves the provision of healthcare for the professional, not forgetting what I'm supposed to extend 100 percent of electronic revenue and electronic clinical history to the entire citizenship of Galicia. We now continue with this same line of incorporation of technological innovation with home care and care services for chronic or pluripathological patients, which is already developed from primary care, but also from hospital care. A model open to society, open to people; health services that have the community and social component inherent to the current needs of citizens who demand our attention. We have important teleassistant tools already in operation, such as Telea, telephone consultation, digital home and e-interconsultation, which facilitate the work of our professionals. We consider the future of the new primary care model to be going that way. We have strategy, we have project and therefore there is future. Primary proactive care, with the effective incorporation of new technologies of communication and information, so developed in Galicia, and which are a real reference in other autonomous communities. But, of course, we always consider that the most important thing in the Greek health system — the Sergas — in our health council is human capital and, of course, we will continue to try to improve their working conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u275	Thank you very much, Counselor. Interpellation by D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María Luisa Pierres López, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Italian Government on roads
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u276	Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u277	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. It was a question of nominal correction, about the name nothing else; it was nothing about the interpellation. Our interpellation today is about the Plan of Mobility and Strategic Road Management, essentially the Plan MOVE. A plan that, from our point of view, has already been born obsolescencely programmed, given its evolution over the years since its publication; a plan that — as you well know, and I believe that all of us here, especially those Members and Members who have already been in previous legislations — has been the subject of multiple interventions, interpellations and questions over these years, precisely because of the lack of development and practical realization of this plan; a plan with a horizon established between 2010 and 2020. A plan that, very briefly, we can say that it had three fundamental objectives: firstly, the improvement of road safety; secondly, to increase the investment in maintaining the existing road network, and, thirdly, to improve the accessibility of the territory. I forgot, from our point of view of this plan — although it is obviously not part of its objectives — that refers to the role that as an economic dynamizer has the public sector, most of all that refers to public infrastructure and its cost, at times like the one we have just experienced, of severe economic crisis. So -- I insist -- although it's not an objective because it doesn't refer to the roads in particular, or much less, it was relevant to its development to dynamize the economy of our autonomous community. During 2009, with President Feijóo's first government, you published a plan that virtually corrected the following year, in 2010, with a downside of your initial proposals, a reduction of EUR 621 million on the 4,265 plan in principle. But even those forecasts covering up to 2020 — and therefore the period of vigilance has not yet ended — have not been met, since we are pending to implement most of the road infrastructure on self-sustaining roads. In short, for purely illustrative purposes, because it is of great significance: in October 2010 there were 334 kilometres of high-capacity pathways or high-performance pathways — we are not going to have any problem with the nomenclature — and this was recognized precisely in the MOVE Plan. It's not a figure I'd get out of anywhere. In July 2018, that is, just three months ago, we have 497 kilometers built, and this data publishes your advisory at the Raega, which, as you know perfectly well, refers to the autonomic network of roads in Galicia. I mean, in eight years, you built the creepy 163-kilometre figure, which gives, basically, 20-kilometres a year. In the rest of the road types, both in the primary and primary networks complementary and in the secondary network, we're exactly as in 2010, the kilometer above, the kilometer below. The plan MOVE's forecast is that 565 kilometers of high capacity pathways were executed in this autonomous community, and within this plan there are 163, which is supposed to have you run, two years from the end of this plan, 29%, exactly 29%. So, I think if we do a review -- because it's absolutely impossible at this time and it's not the goal of this interpellation -- of the VAP from Brión to Noia, of the unfoldment of this VAP, there's nothing done, and it had to be finished in 2015 according to the plan itself. The variant of Santiago de Compostela's metropolitan area, that western belt that had to be finished in 2020 and a part of it in 2017, nothing has been done. The Tui-A Guard VAP, about which you will be asked tomorrow, is started, but it had to be finished in 2013. In the unfoldment of the Nadela-Sarria vial — about what will be asked tomorrow too — there is nothing done and it had to be finished in 2015. From the high-performance track on the North Coast, it's better not to start talking because it's unfettered what happens with that road, there's practically nothing done. In 2009 it said you reduced those millions of euros. But, of course, as they won't reduce if it turns out that in Program 512B, of construction, conservation and exploitation of roads, in 2009, there were 449 million budgeted, and this is an absolutely false budget because it was made by the Bipartite, which is already known to be always making errors in magnitudes of powers of 103, speaking of millions of errors, of billions, they were not minute sins. But already in 2010, with an absolutely serious and responsible government, which was President Feijóo's, 419 million euros were budgeted again. That's right, in 2011 they reduced to 299. I'm always talking about that 512B program. In 2017, in total, with the budgetary change that took place in summer, 262 million euros. By 2018, 237, and now, in the Budget Project of this autonomous community by 2019, you further reduce the investments planned for this program to 270 million, thereby reducing the investment by 2.52%. If we talk about compliance with legislation, its own legislation, and believe me that this is a particularly tedious issue, having to come here to remind the Government of the failure to comply with its own laws you have said - if we talk about the failure to comply with Law 8/2013, with Galician roads, with its modification of the year 2015, in which you know perfectly that there are two fundamental instruments, the Galician Road Director Plan and the sectoral road plans, which are the technical instruments that develop this plan, there is absolutely nothing done. So here we are faced with the following disunity: if we assume that the MOVE Plan is the Galician Road Director Plan — which I think you don't even assume — is incomplete, if we assume that, because it didn't go through the parliamentary procedure that is planned for the Galician Road Director Plan; that is, you have to develop it by the Government, you have to approve it by the Galician Board of Directors and you have to come to Parliament. If it isn't, that I think it isn't, we're obviously faced with another failure to comply with the legislation. I insist, of a legislation that you yourselves have published, that you yourself have written and that you yourself have approved. Finally, I think we're talking about a full performance, which was developed on paper in 2010, but it never developed at any time, more than in that 29% I told you before, with new ways built in our autonomous community. That is why, once again, our parliamentary group is in the sad obligation to ask whether you have planned to carry out some sort of planning that this Parliament may know, that it can know this autonomous community, about roads, of course, the competence of the autonomous community. If that is the case — we understand that this should be the case — the deadlines are set for the development of the different procedures. I ask for the last time, with a fairly large "n" you will at some point comply with the binding legislation in respect of roads, in respect of the road map. And finally, it is considered that the MOVE Plan we all know is still in force; that is, if there is the slightest hope that before the end of its 2020 deadline we will be able to complete that plan. You're a smart person and you know that this last question is absolutely rhetorical, because it's absolutely impossible for you to comply with the MOVE Plan, not even 50% of what was written in 2010. I insist, with the correction they made to you, the year 2009. In any case, I honestly believe that as a political propaganda tool it is very well, as an infrastructure planning tool it is quite acceptable, as a practical realization of the infrastructure policy of the People's Party Government is absolutely regrettable. Waiting for you at least to answer the first three questions, I'm waiting for what you can tell me. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u279	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The fact is that I am glad that you bring me to Parliament various initiatives in the matter of road competition from the Galician Union, the MOVE plan, the mobility plan and strategic management. An interpellation to answer today, tomorrow — as you said — we will have specific questions to specific infrastructures. And I appreciate you finally asking me specific questions of direct competition from the Galician Union, because the truth is that I was used to answering questions from Madrid, the Government of Spain. Now that you rule in Madrid, I will be able to address and explain matters of competence own to the Council and Competition of the Council of Galicia. The truth is, if I'd like you to bring to this House today some questions from the state, such as the works of the AVE and that visit of the government delegate to the works of the AVE, which we first learned from the press. You spoke before political propaganda, this visit is indeed political propaganda! It's very easy to sell works that have unlocked the previous ones. The government delegate who has just arrived to visit some works and I understand that we disturb him from the Council of Galicia, also that we disturb him from the parliamentary level and disturb him also from the municipalities. And that we'll hear from the press about that visit, of course, it's an unprecedented lack of institutional respect, and I'd like you to shed light on this matter. In any case, returning to matter, talking about specific and direct competences of the Galician Union, I'm glad to be able to talk about matters of our direct competence of the council. It is the opportunity to explain everything we have done and to explain to the citizen something that, by the way, the Socialist Party has not realized today, that we have seen a profound economic crisis these years, a profound economic crisis with the greatest drop in income in the history of democracy. The truth is, I'm surprised you're telling me that we haven't built planned performances in 2009. With this economic crisis that we have received, this Government is responsible, of course, that it has prioritized social spending: health, education and social policies, with responsibility. And look, I think -- and you know that too because you're a ready person -- that to carry out strategic planning you have to see the current situation, the current needs, the current context, and then make a continuous follow-up. Living plans for tracking and materializing them, as far as possible, making continuous follow-up. That was the scheme we followed for this strategic planning on infrastructure and mobility to facilitate mobility: to bring people closer to one another, to bring people into transport infrastructures and to multiply mobility possibilities; and we have achieved a lot of goals. We have achieved the priority objective of the MOVE Plan by considerably increasing the kilometres of high-performance routes. Today, 83% of the population is less than 15 minutes from a high-performance route. It was one of the priorities of that MOVE Plan that you commented on. Of course we would like to do a lot more — to me, of course, a lot more — but we have had and have had difficulties, many difficulties, many ongoing obstacles, and there were not few of the problems we have encountered from the economic crisis, as I said. In times of the greatest economic crisis, with major difficulties, strong budgetary restrictions that forced us to prioritize and basically preserve essential public services, as it said: health, social services, well-being and education. And just a year later -- we said publicly -- there was a need to adjust and adapt those forecasts to make actions and a more viable, more realistic planning. We also had knowledge after these big bills and mortgages that you left us, and important holes. Allow me, I've said it many times in this House and you were, we weren't aware at that moment of that breakdown, because they left the gestures broken. The two-party government has broken the gestures. There was a debt to the financial entities of EUR 180 million, in addition to the debt to the suppliers of more than EUR 100 million and in addition to those commitments for more than EUR 900 million. Due to the gestures, we had to rescue the broken gestures. The 1 billion euros you left in mortgages, in concessions. Having the budget as you say, I had more than 400 million euros, yet they make a concessional model and leave a mortgage of 1 billion euros so that what comes next will and look for how to solve it. All of this, of course, influenced the Council of Galicia accounts, and the budgets fell in half. We would like, of course, that all these years we had on roads more than 400 million euros as you had, and yet they resorted to the concessional model and left us a mortgage of 1 billion euros We had to rethink, reprogram, prioritize, adjust to reality, optimize resources, make a realistic and viable programming, and with half the budget we've made more than 200 kilometers of high-speed free toll routes since 2009. That data has to be updated, I'll give it up to date. Even in the toughest moments, even in times of very important economic crisis, despite those holes that left us, despite the problems of mortgages that left us, despite having the budget half, we have been able to overcome ourselves, to do more with less and to get 208 kilometers of high-speed routes free of charge since 2009. We go from 313 kilometers to 521 kilometers of high-performance pathways to today. I'll give you the updated data and if you don't, I'll explain it and we'll transfer it. Therefore, 67% more high-performance pathways run despite the economic crisis, despite holes, and despite mortgages. So, eight out of ten Greeks are less than fifteen minutes away from a high-performance track. And the truth is, we're not talking about plans or power point, we're talking about facts, realities, works done. Made with impulse, with work, because we bet for equal opportunities, and realities and examples that I can move you and that I'm sure you know, how to complete the Ferrol-Vilalba bus with the service in 2010 of that traffic truce between Cabreiros and Vilalba. On the way to the North Coast, of course, we perform actions, and — I insist — at the worst moment of the economic crisis we put into service the variant of Ortigueira, we put into service the way of high benefits Celeiro-San Cibrao, we invested 100 million euros in times of major economic difficulties and strong budgetary restrictions. We made it possible to travel between Santiago and Noia, and to approach Santiago and Noia, thanks to that high-performance route Brión-Noia and also the variant of Noia. We also made significant progress in communications in southern Ourense, put into service Celanova's bus. In the Coruña area, the third round, a new alternative to enter the Coruña free of charge, and we also built the Ártebra route, between National VI and the Meirás link. The Tui-A Guard VAP, the third 3; 60 million euros in full economic crisis, 10 kilometers between Goián and The Guard, a strategic performance for the Lower Mine. And also in the province of Lugo, 135 million euros for the high-performance route Sarria-Monforte; 28 new kilometres of free toll-free performances between Sarria and Monforte. And in the summer of 2016 we also put in service 27 kilometres of high-performance highways on the coast of Death free toll-free, despite the obstacles and trying to take down land, sea and air the Government of Greece by some political party so that we wouldn't make the highway on the coast of Death, and we made 27 kilometers of free toll-free bus. Others like you, three first stones. So we don't put first stones, we make miles of free toll-free bus, and the clearest example is the highway of the Coast of Death, that's the difference between you and us. We recently put into service 7 kilometers from the Morrazo bus, an important performance that needed an action as soon as possible because we're talking about a road that in the time of the greatest traffic can reach the figure of 20,000 traffic vehicles; therefore, 7 kilometers from the Morrazo bus. In this way, they are reality 210 new kilometers of high-speed free toll routes in hard years, despite the inheritance received: debts, holes, traps. We have performed, 210 kilometers; we have increased 67% of the high-performance pathways; and we will continue to work, not only doing new works, but also preserving what we have, because I always say that it is so important to do new works like preserving what we have. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u280	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the floor, in the replica round, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u281	Thank you again, Mr. President. Counselor, you don't know what I'm glad you're glad we're asking these specific questions, because that's what's going to happen from now on. We are going to ask you for each of the infrastructures that you are about to run and that you yourself wrote in that document that you adopted in November 2010, when you — who are all people prepared too, of course — knew the depth of the government's loss of income as compared to taxes, mainly as a result of the economic crisis. [[Applause]] So I insist that it seems very good to you, and that way we will always understand. Because the economic crisis... I said it earlier in my first intervention... No, no, I talked about the deep economic crisis. [[The Counsellor speaks words that are not perceived.]] The crisis not only affected Galicia, it did not affect Spain alone. I can understand that you were deeply upset that Mr. Touriño had been President of the Council of Galicia; I can understand that you were deeply upset that Mr. Zapatero had been President of the Government of Spain; what I find it difficult to understand is that you persist in such a familiar way to hold Mr. Touriño and Mr. Zapatero accountable for the global economic crisis. Man, their relevance was, but from there being able to break the Western economies, there's a world of difference! [[Applause]] There's a world of difference! [[Applause]] Mortgages all know what they are and what they mean, because you said you prioritized health, education, social services etc., etc., etc. If that was the priority, I don't know how there are 2,200 less teachers in non-university education in this autonomous community from 2009 to 2018, but good. You made a statement that drew my attention powerfully. Which means the input question and I'll also do my check to see if it's true or not. You said that 83% of Galician population is less than 15 minutes away from a high-capacity track, which means there's 17% more. I suppose that 17% includes, among other places, the entire northern part of the province of Lugo and the entire northern part of the province of Coruña to Ferrol. And there must still be more people. Tell me that the people of the Fondac — who are few, unfortunately — and the people of Navia de Suanna — who are still less — are more than 15 minutes from a high-capacity track, I believe, but that the rest reach 83% on this date, is curious. You talked about who used the concessional model to make infrastructure we were. You know perfectly well what's the biggest concessional mortgage in this autonomous community, right? It's not a highway, it's not a high-capacity track, it's not a circle, it's the hospital you did in Vigo by that model. That is really the big mortgage of this autonomous community. [[Applause]] Look, you said before they didn't make plans on power point. Well, MOVE is true that it's not a power point, it's a PDF. In any case, you're the real experts in power point presentations. [[Applause]] And I'm telling you because I suppose both the Members of En Marea and the Galego Nationalist Block have received in response to the parliamentary question a printed copy of a power point that can be downloaded from the various websites of the German Government. That's a power point with a lot of colors, a lot of colors! Look, as if I'm running out of time, I have to tell you it's worth talking about for ten minutes of what you've done, but I didn't ask you about what you've done, I asked you why you're missing, I asked you if there's any chance they're done somewhere. It was said that I made you a 50 percent horizon, 20 percent more than 29 percent that are currently executed, or 21 percent more precise. I asked him if there's any chance that you'll execute him. I asked you if you're planning a road map. You can answer me if you think it's appropriate, because I see myself obliged to repeat the question. If there are time limits for carrying out such proceedings. You can also answer me because you didn't answer me. They're going to comply with the law provisions that are in effect. And finally, if this MOVE, PDF, power point or any other format, both analogical and digital, maintains some kind of vigency, or we can break up with it and commit ourselves to something else: you're developing a viable plan, and we're doing parliamentary control over the execution of that plan, which is viable or not. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u283	Thank you, President. Well, you accuse me of the Rosary of defaults, but the Rosary of non-compliances is best the Covenant of the Sparrow signed by Minister José Blanco. I'm not going to put myself here writing the 2012 non-compliances, 2014, 2015. [[Applause]] I didn't say Mr. Zapatero was responsible for the economic crisis, perhaps he's responsible for not recognizing it. I didn't say that. I said the highway to the Death Coast isn't at the power point, it's done. Ferrol-Vilalba's bus isn't at the power point, it's done. So I'm talking about highways made, 210 kilometers of high-speed free toll routes made during the greatest time of economic crisis; that's what I said. So they're not plans, they're not PDF, they're made highways. In any case, I like to say that he likes us talking about the powers of the Galician Union. I think they're now saying that they're going to ask from now on about matters of competition from my council is a nice way to recognize that they dare not talk about the state. So it's a nice way to move that now doesn't fit into the state. I used to talk a lot about the state, now it doesn't come and we've come to talk about the Unity of Galicia, but I come here delighted to talk about the roads, planning and works of the Infrastructure and Mobility Council. I don't know what he's doing. In any case, we kept the rate of investor similar and equivalent to the time of fat cows. The concessional model was used by different political parties, what happens is that you used the concessional model when they had a lot of money via budget. I wish we had in 2011 -- which you already said we had 200 and peak -- in 2012, 2013, 2014, four hundred and a half million euros as you did. You, with 400 million euros, got rid of the concessional model, and that, of course, is not good management for me. When there's more than 400 million euros, it's certainly not good management to get rid of future mortgages and also to pull out other financial mechanisms. You know that these EUR 1 billion must be added to EUR 272 million for other financial mechanisms to leave the mortgage, and what comes after it goes away! That's his motto: "I invite and you pay." That must be the motto of the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party invites and then we have to come and pay. [[Applause]] And another example, is it good management to sign an agreement that obliges the Greeks to pay EUR 400 million until the end of the AP-9 concession, that ruinous agreement for Galicia and round to Audasa, which even the Council of State itself recognised in writing — and is there — an unfair enrichment of Audasa that signed the Bipartite? It was we who broke that agreement, that unfair enrichment for Audasa, and the Greeks have already stopped paying those more than 7 million euros a year — that was EUR 400 million until the end of the concession — that ruinous agreement signed by the Bipartite, round to Audasa and that we broke. That's how it's managed and cared for by the general interests! [[Applause]] I insist, in the worst economic crisis, and not only with economic crisis, but also with holes and mortgages, we increase by 60% the routes of high tariffs free of charge with less money, and we want to get you the maximum social and economic profitability. We have made a huge sacrifice, we have learned a lot from the management of the economic crisis, we have learned a lot from many problems, many pitfalls, many holes and many mortgages, and what we have learned is that the works must be done through budget, through phases, and not through mortgages, and make them viable. That was the premise that led to us also in the year 2015 — we always said — to reformulate, design and make the infrastructure viable, because the truth is that we all pay for it, they pay all the Greeks. That strategy is already formulated on the Morrazo highway, and on the Morrazo highway, with that strategy, there are already seven kilometers in service, and next year we'll put in service the third third. With that same premise, we're on the highway conversion of the Nadela-Sarria high-performance route, which tomorrow we'll also talk about for the kid. Or also the conversion into the highway of Brión-Noia, which we are with the project; or after the highway Santiago-La Estrada, in which even today we have taken an important step in expropriations. In any case, it's a paradox, for example, that we want to do the Alarmway and they won't let us connect to AP-9. You come here to ask for more investments and you won't let us invest in a 35 million-euro work. In any case, work, effort, infrastructures made in the territory that are increasing 67% the routes of high duty-free allowances; more than 200 kilometers in duty-free service. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-23-DSPG087.u284	Thank you very much, Counselor. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thank you very much.
