ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. It justified the non-attendance of Mrs Maria de la Concepción Burgo López. And, no more, we're on the agenda. First point, legislating texts. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, amending Law 12/2013, of 9 December, of guarantees of health benefits, in order to strengthen the public health system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u2	For the presentation of the bill Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. We have brought back from the Socialist Group — as in recent times especially, although always in general — a concern about the health system. Our proposal on public health is powerful and clear. So we think it's necessary to deal with it from every point of view. And today from a very specifically more legal point of view, to do or to propose some changes that we believe might be convenient for the system. What we're talking about is the systematic non-compliance that moves or makes a problem that has to do with waiting lists, with times of delay in caring for people who go through the healthcare system. For a long time now — and more recently the more we have approached these times much more — there is a growing concern about the problems of system effectiveness. Not only here in Galicia, which there is it enormously, because it is obviously ineffective by the management that is being done of it, but in general, in terms of other autonomous communities in Spain and also in other countries, there are problems associated with the management of the system because it has some conditions that we are all aware of: the aging of the population, the improvement of treatments that involve improvements also technological and, therefore, the cost of such treatment is often much higher. This causes systems to have resource problems as they don't have enough capacity at times to provide all the resources the system needs to be able to provide health care in condition. Thus, there are autonomous communities that increase spending especially in terms of resources, especially in terms of personal resources. This is the case even in other countries, as we have seen recently in the French system, or some reform that the British are doing, which is true that in some other sense but also concerned about this matter. And while in Galicia there is a very serious problem in terms of personnel, but the way to deal with it is to hide. Because we have a huge problem in this system in Galicia in terms of personnel, we have a precarious staff. A basically exploitative, ultra-liberal model within the public system, which is -- let's say -- like the turnaround already of the system, which is not only supporting the ultra-liberal models in the private market, but moving them into the public system, and being exploiters and trying to get professionals to give much more than they sometimes are capable. We're lucky in the health system: our professionals are fantastic and they're trying to sustain, as far as possible, the system, which seems to be taking place from the leadership of the Government of Galicia's board meeting much less than the professionals themselves. And we have some problems associated with this that have to do with the loss of quality in attention, not in human treatment, not in personal treatment, because so we can collect it clearly through all surveys and valuations, and through conversation with any one patient in Galicia, that professionals are fantastic, but through those measures that have to do with health management. What do we mean? Which there are some problems that have to do with resource allocation and which basically have to do with political priorities. Because, in the end, everything is political priorities: when fiscal policy is made we are becoming political, when we decide on personal issues we make politics, when services are reduced we become political. Although then, curiously, on the axis of politics, which is Parliament, you come here to say: listen, you don't make politics with that. But in this debate we've talked about it so many times that sometimes it gives the feeling of talking to walls. The question is that in terms of staff, we have a deficit that will damage the system, because it brings with it several other problems, especially one that has to do with waiting times. There's a serious problem on the waiting lists in Galicia, which has two ways to represent itself: The first one, we are failing to comply with the legislation that this parliament has given Galicia in times of waiting, we are assuming that the waiting times we had to have do not exist. However, there is a government that celebrates it, constantly celebrates the data. There's a second problem: no one believes the government's data. The truth is that you only have to be in the waiting room of a hospital, in a health center, to be able to talk to anyone you're waiting for, and when someone can explain to you right there what the waiting times the government says to have, there's no one who subscribes that this can be true. [[Murmurs.]] It must be that the times of waiting for the People's Party are a bit like those of the full sometimes, which must always wait for the People's Party to be. So once we're in this dynamic the waiting times in health have to do with the People's Party saying I'm like this, though no one checks them out. And yet we have a law that has defined this situation, a 2013 law that we intend to modify. A simple quantitative change, even if we measure it in words, a simple change in text, but that changes the position in terms of labour policy, in terms of priority. The question that we propose to modify has to do with the waiting lists, with times waiting for the system. And by making a simple explanation, though surely you all know what we're proposing and those who're going to deal with this subject also know it quite in detail, but for trying to make a simple explanation: The law of 2013 defines something called "maximum waiting times." As anyone can understand, the maximum waiting times are that number of days — it is quantified in number of days — that we must wait for three measures: first consultation, a diagnostic test or a surgery: forty-five, forty-five and sixty-six days. There is usually more concern, especially in the part of the surgical intervention, and it has to do with the natural concern of people, in which when they are close to being able to solve a problem or an intervention — which always has a greater consequence in terms of instability or anxiety — because the need for it to be done as soon as possible. And the law itself recognizes this. The first question has to be pointed out: a law has been built that has defined maximum waiting times that were never met, that have not been complied with at the time of the law and that since the law was established they have never been complied with. Elaborate in law the maximum system waiting times that have never been fulfilled. This shows that either someone who makes the law is not very familiar with the system or has the will not to comply with it. Why would a government want the waiting times not to be fulfilled? Because when waiting times are not fulfilled, law enables to derive from private concerts. [[Applause]] What happens to this situation? Anyone who could analyze it — of course not from the People's Party — would understand that it is a law built to legally consolidate the possibility of deriving from private concerts. What do we propose? First of all, assuming that if the waiting times of the law are not met is that the system is not working properly. Because if maximum times don't meet, we're exceeding maximum times, and they already know that maximum times are exceeded, we're assuming we don't meet correctly. Okay, there are two possible solutions: First, we're derived from private health. For what? To solve the problem that we have an extra job that we're not able to assume, and therefore someone outside has to assume it. Second proposal — which is what we do —: if there are services in the system that are exceeding the maximum number of days waiting, it means that they are not equipped with sufficient resources to work well; therefore, we have more resources. Do they perform all services? No, but some are systematic. And, therefore, it doesn't mean that it's a matter of time, of a time-consuming shortage of workers, or that there's a problem with the service at a particular time. There's a structural service problem. If there are always services that pass much more than due time to wait, they don't have the ability to assume all the patients that the service has to treat. And this seems to be a reasoning, the truth, even for Members who practice "political papapatism" — as we are told here — that even we are able to understand it: if we systematically exceed waiting times, it is that the system is not working. And, therefore, we can propose — and this is the proposal we make — that in those services where waiting times are systematically exceeded we assume that there is a staff problem and we hire more. And this is the debate. We propose to resolve the problem of more personal delays. And the People's Party so far proposes to solve the problem of delays with private concerts. And this is a priority debate; basically this is the question, this is the dichotomy: more personal or private health? And this is the debate we have here, and this is what we have proposed. It is simple in linguistic and literary terms, in literary terms, even in legal terms, but it is deep in political terms, and it has to do with priorities. And what we're thinking is if we need to assume that our system has to work, it has to have more resources. Because, if not, it can't work to the extent that this parliament and this government have given itself a control system, which is the maximum times. So we are faced with a certain fork: if we have a limit, we comply with it, and if we fail to do so, we give ourselves the resources to accomplish it. The question is that from this reasoning—it's simple, but those who do a health circus already know that we're very simple, it's very simple—: if we need more personal, let's hire it. Do we agree, yes or no? This is the question behind this bill. There are other positions: if we need more personnel, we paid them to do that work that we don't have. And it's a legitimate position. We don't share it with socialists, but it's a legitimate position. What happens is that in this country you have positions and then you can say that you have others, but this here in health we have a pretty common one. We also have the policy of "what there is," which is also common in the Council, as we all know. But in general terms, this is our proposal. There is something else that has to do with the administration of this law. For example, the waiting times were first published every three months and now every six months. I'm sure you don't have to see the chance -- as that one says -- that times of publication of waiting times have been eliminated when they usually get worse at different times of the year, as everybody knows. There are worse times of the year, and there are better times. And they only publish themselves there when they give themselves good moments of the year, and yet they do not comply with the law. But they're only published at that time. And the question is, if it's such an advanced system, that, as you have ever said here, it's only to give you a known button, I don't think it's any problem publishing them every three months. I don't think the Eastern Government of "transparency" and "information" -- as I heard the other day saying to a badge member of the Government -- has a problem publishing waiting lists every three months, as was done. And if no one can explain why every six. And there's some other change also in a way that seems to be smaller, but I don't want to let it go without mentioning. The law includes in its article 26 a revolutionary issue -- it's quite surprising in a law -- which is that a compliance report is being prepared. Great! I mean, it's a very difficult thing. To produce a law enforcement report is very complicated, it has its difficulty. Making reports for everyone to have information is dangerous. It won't be that the opposition has information too! And this is very hard. But when the law says that a report has to be drawn up, one asks: will there be? And it turns out that our group has requested that report. I know it's very surprising, but do you know that he sends the Council when one asks him for reports on maximum waiting times, compliance with the law and solutions and measures he needs to take to solve it, what does the law say? Do you know what the government reports? Send a link to see the waiting lists. That we thank, eh!, because since we're "papanatas" we're not able to get to the waiting lists. But the report says that the corrective measures needed to solve the problem must be put in place. [[Applause]] Of course, it's very dangerous to put in the law a report has to be made, and then be so vague as not to do it, or not to want to do it because you would assume that you have to make decisions that you don't want to make, or -- which is the same thing -- that the report doesn't have to exist because the solution is already made. Our friends with private health will solve the problem that we haven't done since the public. [[Applause]] So there's not the report that says the law, there are times of waiting that are not fulfilled according to the law and we transform the law to give less information. For the Socialist Party proposes three hyperrevolutionary things: First, let the reports that the law says what to do if they do. Surprisingly this! I'm a Trotskyist, absolutely; it's an absolute revolutionary issue: the reports that the law says are made. Tremendo, eh! Be careful, take it easy, go easy, it's difficult to make reports that tell the law what to do. Second question, the information that can be published in a click — I quote literally, I don't put between quotes that I'm talking about, but I'm going to quote, it's not going to be the devil: you have to come here to give this report to Parliament and say what the waiting lists are every three months, not every six months. Therefore, reports and waiting lists every three months. And third, if that's where the maximum waiting times get over if we assume that we have a problem, we now opt for a solution that's private health. We propose that we choose to hire more staff. And that at the end is the debate. Because private health is a tool that can be used on time instrumentally, but not circumstantially.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u4	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u5	The circumstance is not to do it in the usual way. You know what it lasts is structure and what it's not a set. Private health must be a conjunctive to the system, not a structural one. So what we propose is that we be able to change the law so that every time we detect a mistake — and we have in the law how we detect it — we hire more staff. The debate is this: do we want to solve the health problem and hire more personnel or from private health? And that's the question that we moved through this change today. And we believe that defending the staff is not making big speeches, which usually also contain some lies, but giving him less flowers and a little more chapter I, which in the end is also the best way to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u6	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u7	Good morning. The BNG's position on the Health Insurance Act is well known from the very first moment when the People's Party's preliminary draft law was introduced. We said that I wouldn't expect any progress in the situation in which the People's Party had and has Gallia's public health, and the facts I recall. They introduced and passed a law with a clear objective, which was to give legal coverage to the derivation of patients and public resources to private health; a law to increase still that gradual privatization of Greek health. And they didn't move from that initial position, and they're still there. BNG has been perfectly aware from the very first moment — and we have denounced it — that the Guarantees Act responded to an ideological choice of promoting private health at the expense of the public. It's not a resource problem, it's not a management problem, it's not a problem going on everywhere -- obviously, resources are finite -- it's an ideological choice problem. Well, it's true that public health needs to be damaged, and resources need to be limited so that it seems inevitable to reach the situation in which we are. And this Health Insurance Act is of course a law that deepens in that privatization, which aims to ensure that private health ceases to be complementary to public health and puts it on the same level; a pure and harsh ideological choice. Since the response times of that law are not the basis for strengthening public health with more investments, with more resources, with more personnel, strengthening with the injection of resources, but when, in those times which establish the law, if no more resources are injected, of course, it is not possible to respond to public health, and what is done is to extend the highway to private health. I know that when the People's Party Member or Member comes up here on his behalf, he will come up with that data saying that these periods of guarantee did not lead to private health, but to public health. Why? Because he's playing with the trick that these times are only guaranteed for super-gravous pathologies. What they're deriving are the others. They're going to warranty times just for super-graving pathologies. It's just that they're playing tricking the people of Galicia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. When the debate of the law, in matters like the one that the Socialist Party is here today, we try to introduce these guarantee mechanisms. The People's Party refused round. It refused to introduce mechanisms, for example, as those responsible and managers of hospitals where objectives were not met had at least to account for what was going on, why those objectives were not met, so that corrective mechanisms had to be established and that accounts had to be made. The People's Party refused to establish any control mechanisms, refused to respond to those times in public health. Because the objective, of course, was not to give an answer within public health, because the objective of this Guarantee Law was that highway towards private health. Just like the goal was that new, more profitable, more profitable processes that make it possible for more benefits and these more visible statistics to result in private health, and the most expensive, chronic and long-term processes are kept in public health. That's the goal and lower level of confidence and security. No reference centers are considered at any time, nor can they derive from any center of the country; the connection between primary and hospital care has not been established; the coordination work between professionals has not been guaranteed at all. We reported at that time that he was going to go through with the comarcal hospitals, and that's where we have the consequence. The Health Insurance Act, adopted in 2013 alone by the People's Party, subjected this legalization to the derivation of patients and resources to private health. The amendment of the Health Act of 2018, which also adopted the People's Party on its own alone, was the consolidation of that roadmap, following the People's Party's roadmap, in that dismantling of the Welsh public health, of that concentration of resources to facilitate this business to the private company, to which the most succulent parts of the Greek public health have already been delivered. Theoretically, the Guarantee Law reduced the maximum guaranteed times; in practice it is not much less so. You keep hiding the non-structural waiting lists, you keep having all sorts of tricks to avoid making the lists public, you play giving the data of the most serious cases, you keep focusing the data on the most serious cases. And right now, after developing the decree, to implement the decree that develops the law with almost four years' delay and to enter into force on 10 January 2018, they have focused attention on that decree, which, I insist, only developed for those hundred and few very serious pathologies. What's the situation? If you check the wait at the hospital that corresponds to the patient exceeds the maximum guaranteed, what does Sergas do? It offers you the realization of the benefit in another public centre; if there is no such possibility, it offers you that you can go to a concert or what the patient can go to a private centre. Which seems like a guarantee for the patients they know perfectly well that this is not so. What Sergas, the People's Party, continually does is let time run, what they do is let time run and the deadline pass to offer the derivation to that concerted center, which is nothing more than a private center, and to fatten the arks of that private health. I insist that they're recently playing to guarantee in health those very serious pathologies. BNG will support this amendment of the law. Well it's true that if you accept your treatment, the BNG will try to influence the most silent aspects, in the same direction as we tried it when it was the processing of the law. But I'm afraid that I'm either very wrong or the People's Party will continue to keep this Law as it has guarantees, because the objective, what it's working for is that it's a true highway of patient derivation and resources towards private health, which for this was approved and created this law, unique and exclusively to give a legal framework to that derivation. Because with fewer resources and fewer professionals it's impossible for waiting times to be guaranteed in public health drowned by the cuts of the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u9	Thank you, President. We will, of course, also support the consideration of this bill. It can't be otherwise due to our political position and also to the work we did then, by that time from the Alternative Left Gaga, and I myself have been in that presentation. We are going to vote in favour of this consideration because we believe that it is essential to modify the current situation of the health system and these private drifts, which, however, the Council of Galicia is denying. We would sink further into other matters. That is why we are also going to vote in favour, so that in the possibility of the presentation we can transfer other aspects. It's really important that the text of the law be kept on the report, but it should be remembered here that unfortunately it goes without reports from the centers, memories from the centers, because for years there have been no management memories and working memories, and there are no accounts monitoring reports, except for EOXI Pontevedra-O Salnés. It's a very serious situation we've already reported. And, in fact, it's hardly going to be moved a law enforcement report if there are no memories or even any of the work of the centers. All right, it's nice to see you post your waiting lists four times a year, but that's what you did before. We also want to address the publication of those non-structural waiting lists. We are aware that Royal Decree 605/2013, so the measures for homogenic treatment and the information on waiting lists within the National Health System, precisely indicates the obligation to publish the structural waiting or waiting lists. But we also understand that there is no prohibition to extend that publication, even if it had been adopted, for example, the decision that journalism was different. It's unfortunate that at this point we don't know the actual waiting lists and we're being asked to give us waiting list data for tests, interventions and queries that are absolutely false. We also understand that it is necessary to specify how the lists are published by diagnostic evidence. They are currently not indicated by centre. We have a huge problem -- and we talked about it the other day -- in the case of Ourense, in relation to people with cancer, and also in the Coruña, who are not doing the diagnostic tests, the TACs in time and form; people who are in a complicated health situation. And the provided data is authentically false. And we have a problem with transparency in the Health Council. We are also in favour of deleting Article 13(4) of the current law, which refers to a person's ability to go to private health, and then we have to pay off that assistance with public money. That abounds in the inequity of the system and goes against the universality of public health. We also understand that we need to address leads. We are not supporters and supporters of derivations. It seems to us that the plan proposed by the Socialist Party is a proposal that needs to be taken into account how these drifts are conditioned to improvements. But we believe that it should be much stricter the text of the law to avoid such derivations. We have closed plants: in Coruña, in Abente and Lake and in Materno, we have the third floor of Salnés. We are continually talking about the units that are closed and, however, there is nothing in the law to guarantee or to force them to open and equip them with means and services. Something very elementary: we should be addressing the need to publish other waiting lists for other professionals. I'm going to give an example: the psychology waiting list does not exist. And it doesn't exist because derivation cannot be done directly from primary because it's other professionals -- in this case, Psychiatry -- the ones that derive. And we have a problem: it's impossible to know, this has been reported by the College of Psychologists and Psychologists, and on many occasions there is no knowledge and there is no possibility of access to that service. We haven't published the Physiotherapy list. And we have a problem: there are no waiting lists in primary care. We're continually discussing the expectation that there will be in many of our primary care centers, because of course the lack of coverage of these permits, vacation breaks and structural absences. We believe it would be good to debate it and include it. We could also certainly come to an agreement on what periodicity, but at least one study, an average, a report, something to be provided in relation to this aspect. And we're usually asked what happens to Povervisa's waiting lists and other concerted lists, because they can overcome the maximum waiting times set by law itself and nothing happens at all. There is no report indicating why these companies are allowed to go beyond time, when we all know that public health has been considered structurally within their system. I mean, there are people whose reference center is a private center through this concert, and also in this case a singular concert. Why are waiting lists in these centres, and particularly and fundamentally in Povervisa, much higher, and allow them, however, to continue without any indication of improvement, no suspension of the agreements, absolutely nothing happens, no penalty in this sense? We should also open the debate about which services are filled with peonadas, these ill-called "self-concertations" within the public system, and why that should be in the report or study that the Socialist Party is asking for in this proposal to improve public services. We're mainly talking about transfers to private, but we're also talking about self-concerting services that could be provided by more health professionals. In general, there are many points to address, and of course there is a common denominator, which is the interest of gradually privatizing public health. There is another aspect that we believe is essential to address and that we also consider that the Health Insurance Act must be completely removed, as we have already proposed in our amendments in 2013. This is what it has to do with Article 12(2) of the law itself, which is also reflected in the development decree. Of course, it took five years to establish the regulation that moderates, regulates or establishes the terms under which the Health Insurance Act applies. Five years!, the holidays of the Health Council. Point 2 of that Article 12 is our understanding of legalizing the privatization of health care when patients or persons who are called lose the right to the guarantee of benefit — by the way, denied, but comes literally and can be read both in the decree and in the law itself — if they refuse to go to a private clinic when offered. That, by the way of facts, is an extortion, so people can't practically deny themselves if they don't want to take longer than they ought to be cared for. Because, of course, losing the right to be insured means that for a test they'd have to call you in an intervention in a month, I could spend a year, and you're no longer entitled to complain because you refused to go to that private. We have already denounced that the Galician Union, through the admission services of the EOXI, is already offering direct interventions in private and private consultations. And it turns out a noise -- and I have to say it again -- to hear appearances and statements like that of the president of the board in the past full, absolutely embarrassing in this chamber, saying that there are no transfers to private. And that's because you assume that the concerts are directly public health. It's a real shame. It has been said here that there are no transfers, we are wondering what those two hundred million euros a year are going to set up health budgets — it has been said here and, of course, if it isn't, or if it's a mistake, they should correct it. Because it makes noise to hear in this camera a series of ratings like that, when everyone knows, of course, that transfers to private are being made. It's only about admission services and people who are calling to intervene in private. By the way, with questionable quality in some cases, or in comparison to different public health. We have already moved it here, for example, in Pontevedra there were interventions in the case of varicose veins or in the case of other series of health problems with different techniques. They were more quality in public health. Who controls this?, what inspection is there, what reports can be attached to the Health Insurance Act to indicate that the service provided is going to be the same? There's no control. But, of course, article 12 of the law: one cannot be denied, because, of course, the right to guarantee is lost in time and form. That's reality, and it comes in the 2018 decree as well. And I'm going to finish now, because I don't have time. And I insist that we vote in favour, because we want it to be debated and we want to include the possibility of talking about all these things in a presentation. One last aspect that has to do with health, which has to do with this camera: it's also causing noise to hear the president say that he's going to come to the investigation committee, when it hasn't been set up, when we don't have a work plan. And I would also ask that lord to hold the executive's power to respect this chamber, the legislature, and his work. This is not their home and that they can do what they absolutely want. They'll have to wait for us to ask for the appearances. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Of course, Mrs Solla, the President's appearance is for a note. I refuse even to comment on it. Speaking of Mr. Torrado, you, as always in your speeches, spoke here ten minutes and did not give the first data; now yes, ration of demagogy whatever you want. You say, for example, that Galicia is worse than the other autonomous communities, and it seems you haven't read the Federation of Public Health Associations report, the latest on privatization. You're talking about staff being enslaved, exploited, ultra-liberal... and talking about staff deficits, when the councilman said in this Chamber that there are a thousand and fifty more people working for the public system. And he's talking about waiting lists and he says no one believes those times; you're the one who doesn't believe the times, the times are there, and they're calculated like the rest of the communities. And anyway, Mrs. Prado also said that the law simply referred to very serious cases. If you refer to very serious cases, where is the derivation of the private that would provoke the law? I think we're quite full of inconsistencies. This law was passed in Parliament without the vote of the Socialist Party, without the vote of the AGE and the BNG groups. And I wanted to remember here the textuality of what was said at one time: Mrs. Prado, by the BNG, said, "Today we are going to attend here in this chamber to the approval by the People's Party that perhaps is one of the most transcendent laws of this legislation, because it is a law that will give legal coverage to the privatization of health in this country. The tremendous thing is that they do" — they would mean cutting down on waiting times — "not by strengthening public health but by supporting, betting and placing resources on private health. That's the tremendous situation. A privatising law that will increase inequalities between those who can afford an intervention or diagnostic evidence in private health and those who don't, because you'll have to look for life. A law in which private health ceases to be complementary and is regarded as equal conditions to the public. That's the real reality of the law, Counselor." Even the national spokeswoman of the Galego Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón, said in the debate of the state of Autonomy of last year that the decree of maximum time just passed by the Board of Trustees would result in a hundred million euros from public health to private health. I haven't seen them yet. Mrs. Solla, by the AGE Group, said, "Sirs, today one more step towards the privatization of our public health, because today this bad law is going to be passed in this chamber and because from now on private health will be able to compete with the public, because we're going to have to dedicate it to companies that speculate with our health much of our health budget. A clear political marketing maneuver to conceal the importance of this law, which is clearly the gradual privatization of health." He said that there was a "impossibility to comply with the plans set out in this law, such as the maximum attention times, that, even if they are no longer met now, the People's Party introduces into this law sixty days for surgery and forty-five days for consultations; something clearly incompatible with the current scenario and the scenario of neoliberal policies and cuts on our public health system." For the Group of the Socialist Party of Galicia — here has nothing to do with Mr. Torrado, the spokeswoman was Mrs. Acuña — it was said that "It is very clear to us that we are before a law that marks PP, privatising and dangerous to the public system. Privatizer wants to equate public health with private health by law. Besides, it's dangerous, it's a counselor, because it creates differences, differences between people. And in addition to the clearest and most classic differences, you can make use of these guarantees, because you can pay for the displacements and even forward the money so you can go to a private clinic." I just literally reproduced what was said in this Chamber in 2013. And it seems clear that the voices of the opposition groups would not have much future either as guessers or as prophets. And in view of all this, what is the reality of the application of the Health Insurance Act? For it is reflected in the annual reports which have been sent to Mr. Torrado on a request for documentation. For example, in the year 2017, he said -- oh!, because the law has more than the maximum waiting times, it has something else -- "On the right to free choice of family doctor, pediatrician, nursing professional as well as hospital care has been taken over sixty-five thousand family doctor requests, seven thousand seventy-seven hundred pediatricians and over sixty-six thousand nurses, and fifty-five applications received to change hospital were met thirty-two." The right to have a second medical opinion was estimated at 500 17 applications during that year. Seven thousand two hundred and a hundred and a pre-instruction document in the system was issued on the right to demonstrate the previous instructions. Logically, the 2017 report cannot show the maximum waiting times figures that are covered by the law, and it cannot be because the decree was passed in November 2017 and published in January 2018. This decree defines the object of it, the beneficiaries, the scope of application, the guaranteed and excluded processes and the guarantee system, with an annex to the relationship between the diagnostics guaranteed for scheduled and non-emergency surgery, first consultations and diagnostic tests. As I said, it came into force in January this same year. All the information on the development of the Decree of Maximum Times was provided by the Council of Health — this year, of course — on repeated occasions, both in public acts and in this same headquarters, where the counsellor and various senior officials of Sergas put in the knowledge of citizenship the data they were going to obtain on the development of the Decree of Maximum Times as the year progressed. And those figures reflect an important number of people, of Welsh and Germans, who have already benefited from the above-mentioned guarantee. A number of thousands of people fully cared for in the public health service, except for a case of a diagnostic evidence for a technical problem. I repeat: in its entirety these thousands of people have been cared for in the public health service. In the People's Parliamentary Group we believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this reality dismisses the statements made by the opposition groups both in the debate of the law and in subsequent interventions, dismantling the falsifications that we have been used to listening to for years. We've taught this more than once. This year 2012, where the Socialist Party in an election pamphlet said that consultations were to be collected at sixty-seven euros, hospitalization at five hundred thirteen, emergencies at two hundred six or ambulances at three hundred seventy-four, and ultrasound at three hundred thirty-six. "With your vote you can avoid it," with your vote you can avoid it. [[Mr. Núñez Centeno shows the House a red booklet.]] [[Mr. Núñez Centeno shows the House the same red leaflet again.]] And here Mr. Torrado mixes the Law of Guarantees, the Change and the Law of Guarantees with the publication of the waiting lists. And the advisor has already explained that Sergas guarantees the requirements set by the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, which sets out the characteristics and contents of general information about patient waiting time. The German data, ladies and gentlemen, are absolutely comparable to any autonomous community in the Spanish state, to any one. According to Decree 605/2003, it collects the obligation to make public information on the structural waiting list for semesters. In Galicia it is made public very early with respect to other autonomous communities. Mr. Torrado sees ghosts on the waiting list, sees movements. I think you're thinking of Mr. Tezanos and the monthly surveys, the surveys that will be done with intention of monthly voting that have just appeared or met recently. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the Andaluz Health Service page, the only community ruled by the Socialist Party ever since, these lists are also on the date of June, but on 2017, not 2018. The German lists are updated on the website in June 2018. Of course, lessons from the Socialist Government in this eido, Mr. Torrado, the just ones. And we believe that the information provided by the council is the one appropriate to the current legislation, which would make no sense to provide purely management data, which would not contribute anything to the political debate on this chamber. With regard to the amendment to article 26, this action program to minimize people who have been theoretically displaced from the public to private system, does not seem to make much sense in relation to the development of this law, when we all know today that there are no derivations to the public system in compliance with the guarantee law, and I will not tire of repeating it. To remember at this point and outside the application of the Law of Guarantees that the investment figures of the Council of Health in Concerts are lower than they were invested in the year 2008. Another thing we don't seem to want to remember. As mentioned in the first speech, the latest report by the Federation of Associations for the Defence of Public Health — no suspect of convivence with the People's Party — places Galicia in the intermediate ports, in particular in the eighth, with a steady decline in that ranking since 2014. Mr. Torrado, if the important problem that deserves a bill is this minor amendment to the Health Insurance Act, I don't see much meaning in the opening of an investigation commission. But, well, you'll see, because it's clear that what you want is to disengage Welsh public health. I suppose that tsunami that they wanted to see both the Greeks and the Greeks, that was going to bring about the change in Galician Health Act and that it stayed in a small marsh or a chic calm, just as it happened with the Álvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo Hospital, will have much to do with the presentation of this kind of initiative. As a well-known television host said to Mr. Zapatero, the tension must continue. Go on, ladies and gentlemen, keep up the tension, that the Greeks and the Greeks are much smarter than you think, and they're not as easy as anyone wants to be. Of course, we're not going to support this amendment of the law. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u12	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Replica from the author group of the bill, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u13	Thank you, President. Demagoxia—in the RAE—: "False promises that are popular—is that even the RAE mentions them to you in the definition of "demagoxia," eh! — but difficult to carry out." There is a law that has implemented a list of maximum waiting times that will never be fulfilled. Demagoxia: And you ask me / while you nail your pupil into my blue pupil. - Demagogy... it's you. But, until RAE!, "Demagoxia": False promises that are popular. [[Applause]] RAE sometimes talks to seconds, eh! False promises that are popular... By the way, I know you think this minor change of law is a problem, I know. Do you know what happens with this "less" amendment of the law? Which is comparable to any legislative proposal made here in this parliament by the Government since January, and wins the comparison. Because this will be a minor change, but do you know how many laws this government has proposed since January? Zero potato, which said that countless. Demagoxia, spectacular! Sometimes you miss Labordeta so much! Finally, I would like to thank the support of En Marea and BNG, who have expressed their support for their consideration Yes, I miss Labordeta very much, very much. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] I'm allowed to continue. You're not gonna miss me, but at least I have to... thank you for your support. The truth is if I thought we didn't give data. Well, every time I give data, they tell me they don't know where to get them, as soon as I don't, and then when I give them I fill in the data interventions. Anyway, there's nothing to be happy with the audience, it's always good. Some, for giving some: The CIS, all health barometers are getting worse and worse, and users say we are Spain's third worst health system, users. We have four hundred million euros a year at work, if any. More data: if there were a thousand more five-year-old professionals in the system this year, they would be failing the replacement rates. Who announces — even if the president does — that there are a thousand more five hundred professionals in the health system now than last year. You can lie for two things: either because of incompetence or ignorance. And the truth is, I have to think a lot about what's worse, but they both look dangerous to me. More data: man!, since we're going to the data, there's been some mention here that the Vigilant Legislation is being complied with. Article 26 of the Law: "The competent health counsellor shall draw up an annual report on the application of this law, which shall be submitted to Parliament in Galicia in the first quarter of each calendar year". I'm so glad you keep me here when you showed up in the first trimester of this year, every natural year, last year's report, when? He didn't show up, did he? Well, here's the law. And then they tell us that we don't comply, that it's fit for the Vigilant Legislation. I repeat: "The competent health counsellor shall draw up an annual report on the application of the law, which shall be submitted to Parliament in Galicia in the first quarter of each calendar year". Do you remember the presentation of this report in this parliament this year? No, no, no, no. What about last year? Not at all. What about the previous one? Not at all. What about the previous one? Not at all. What about the previous one? Not at all. And there's no more, because the law is 2013, because if they don't do it anymore. But if you mention that reports will be made that are not made. If you accuse us of having no data, and when we ask for it, look, about the derivation data, we come to the ridicule that when we ask for the derivation data, the Director General of Health Care came to the commission and gave the percentage. Do you know what happens to the percentage? That didn't give the total number of patients. How are we going to get a percentage if there's no total number? No, they turn out to be one percent shi. But how much? Of the total patients. And what is the total number of patients? Oh, well, I don't know. This is level of the Casado master but you cannot make percentages of titles when there is no total volume. [[Applause]] But, of course, this is basic statistics, uh, first-rate. But there's no data, because the Council has, by the way, a serious problem, but we don't say it, said the Board of Auditors, which is an opaque advisor's office and which we can't evaluate the Board of Auditors. But there's more. It is about this decree that members of the Advisory Council — not those who speak to them — say very simple things: "There is a serious breach of the system established by Law 12/2013 by changing the initial day for the calculation of maximum waiting times, so that the deadlines set by law are artificially extended." "Several breach of the established system," Advisory Council. "Opace system," Board of Auditors. And no, of course no one believes in the Council. Why?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u15	Because it's not possible, you just have to go to a health center or a hospital to check whether the deadlines are met or not. In the end, what's going on? We have a law that marks maximum times, they know, and therefore there's a problem. There are two ways of solving: or we drift into private -- by the way, what we haven't talked about here, eh!; we proposed a change and talked about everything but this -- or we hired more staff. We're on the most personal. And in the end, the People's Party — as always — is on the other hand, rather than on the private side. But he comes here and talks about other things, and when he doesn't know how to defend the thing, because I think there are MPs and voters from the People's Party who are ashamed of the politics of the German Government but have to defend it, and come here and talk about something else. So let's find out if we want more personnel or we want more private health, that's the debate. But they're not ashamed of defending private health anymore, it's legitimate and nothing happens. But we defend more personal. Don't say the opposite.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u16	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. I warn you that the time indicator is always done, there's a problem we're trying to solve, but the time monitor you have here for time control works, and here too. So in that sense, they don't listen to that one. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galician, Galician recognition and support of single-parent families
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u17	For the presentation of the bill you have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u18	Good morning to all and to all. Well, stepping on the accelerator was the street warrant last March 8 on a historic strike. And since the BNG we have assumed our commitment, and that's why these six months have passed this is the second proposal of feminist law that we present, aware that our duty is not only to monitor the Government's shortcomings and non-compliances, but also to focus on more areas of inequality that deserve our attention and open a debate. With this constructive spirit, we present today this proposal for a Greek law of recognition and support for single-parent families, confident that the positive vote of the groups will enable us to improve an initial text that we are convinced that it could place Galicia at the forefront of advances in legislative matters, thus improving the lives of many people in our country, mostly women. First of all, I would like to thank the work of many people and many collectives, who struggle every day to get these kinds of homes out of invisibility and inequality. And especially greet, which today also accompanies us, the Galician Delegation of the Federation of Single Mothers by Election. Thank you for being patient and generous every time this group asked you for your time and we consulted with you on our doubts. We must bear in mind that the patriarchate, as a form of political, economic and social organization, reproduces itself in our society in many ways, and for decades now that feminism has evaluated that staff is political. This is because this patriarchal domination extends to all areas of our socialization. In this sense it is widely recognized that the family is one of the institutions that as a mode of social organization contributes to perpetuating the patriarchate, namely the imposition of a particular type of family, presented as monolytic and almost as the only possible, the heteropatriarchal and canonical, which is formed on the basis of that sexual division of work and which has reinforced a male leadership to the detriment of the female and placed that model as unique and privileged in front of the different inferiors. Of course, society evolved, it evolved a lot, and that also took its reflection on legal texts. By setting an example, although it seems that this has always been the case, we must remember — and we must not forget — that the families headed by people of the same sex were not recognised on an equal footing until 2005. Only 13 years ago! And that gives us the dimension that we're going to move forward, but you mustn't make us see that false illusion that the recognition of the heterogeneousness of all kinds of families is already a finished task, because it's not. We think that in order to depatriate our legal framework, and also help to do so in our society, we have to move forward in a much broader vision than families and move on to that plural that really exists in society. That institutions recognize and advance in that plurality is fundamental. And so today we propose this proposal to move forward in the support and recognition of single-parent families in all their diversity. Why? Because they're an increasing reality, and yet they remain invisible and discriminated against. What we're talking about doesn't exist. So the truth is today the single-parent family definition we find in our legal framework is very poor and leaves a very important part behind. It is directly or indirectly linked to situations where there is a survival cause that gives rise to that monoparentity. I mean, a two-parent home that by an event becomes monoparent for some reason. That reality exists. And it is true that we have to pay attention to him and that we have to greatly improve what is being done for that reality. But it's also true that we have the responsibility to put aside another one that is being ignored: those single-parent families who are in origin, for free choice. And this law aims to fill that gap, that gap in characterization of monoparentity, especially of those selected, which are a more, legitimate and increasing option. But yet we must ask ourselves why they then remain invisible, why they do not exist practically for administration, why they are not socially normalized, as a more responsible option than any other. From our point of view, this is the consequence of historical discrimination that has two fundamental factors: firstly, years of social and legal preeminence of a traditional family model as unique, in the prejudice of the different; and secondly, as we must also say, the discrimination that women have in our society. It should be borne in mind that most of these types of single-parent homes are headed by women — in 2016 they were 7 out of 10 — and therefore operated and operated on their day-to-day many patriarchal prejudices. And it must be added to this that logically all these women suffer from this economic and labor inequality that has only increased during the crisis and during the policies of the People's Party cuts. In the face of this situation, public authorities cannot stand apart. We have the responsibility to make this collective visible and correct this inequality. That is the fundamental objective of this bill that we present today, a specific law for them and also for them — that there is someone. So in the first title of this legal text that we present today, we propose to take a step that is essential, which is to give law rank to a more complete definition. It is a necessity of first order, since the current Law 3/2011, of family and coexistence, of our country, actually contributes to its concealment. It must be remembered that the Welsh Family Law was born not only from the lack of will, consensus and dialogue of an absolute majority of the People's Party, but directly from the context in which it was developed and approved, which was the same context of the spirit of the attempt to counter-reform the Abortion Law that the People's Party wanted to impose on the State, and that feminism won in the street. He drinks from that context and therefore has a vision of absolutely conservative and obsolete monoparentity. That framework is exclusive, and to that end, the best way to correct it is to create a specific law of its own that exceeds all previous rules, partial and insufficient to cover that diversity. In this line -- I insist -- our first title of our proposal is focused on giving a broader definition. And we included that reality that was so far ignored, those single-parent families that are of origin by choice. With that label we recognize all those families formed by a parent and their offspring from the beginning of that family relationship. In the same way, in this same law we covered these two great realities: the situation of monoparentity because of survival and this monoparentity of origin, by free decision. We do so by giving, for the first time in the history of Galicia, suitable for this kind of family, but we want to go far beyond accreditation. This law also wants to promote the normalization of monoparentity, the overcoming of the prejudices of a kind of home that we insist on is as legitimate as any other, and that is increasing. According to the data given to us by the IGE for the year 2007 — which is the first one on which we found such disaggregated data — there were then in our country 89,879 such homes. The most recent data, from 2016, places that figure by now exceeding 110,000, 110,000! And that increase shows us that we need to develop a much more ambitious general support policy that looks at more situations in order to extend their fan. There is also an obvious question: we need to know more, we need to know more, to know what the needs of this collective are. And, therefore, one of the issues that we include is a development of a complete biannual research that collects both quantitative and qualitative data; data that allows us to progressively evaluate the impact of this law and its measures, an evaluation in which Parliament — this House — will have a significant role. We also include collective and historical demands from these collectives, demands such as the creation of a single-parent simplified card that corrects the evasives and the deficiencies of the current family certificate. We have also incorporated an unfulfilled promise from the People's Party to these collectives that have been in their demands for many years, which is the creation of a single record. We have an important record of the Popular Party's failure. Year after year and legislation after legislation, they continue without making and developing this unique log. In that inconclusive Family Policy Plan they also included him curiously, and by chance — because I am convinced that this was a coincidence — After this parliamentary group had registered this bill, the Social Policy Counsellor came to this House and said that they would. That was a few months ago and we continued in the 21st century — because it must be an impossible task — without creating a single single single-parent family register. Finally, this gives the idea of the little will that the People's Party has had with this collective in recent years. Well, I want to insist on an idea. This recognition is fundamental, these families have been asking for many years to stop being invisible, but it is also fundamental another vital step and we have to go further in two clear objectives: first, in improving support measures — I insist — for all single-parent families, and secondly, in working to overcome those prejudices and normalize their reality. In that sense, in view of the paternalistic outlook of conservative laws, we propose support. Faced with the conservative optics of conservative policies that offer charity, that perspective of charity, we offer accompaniment. And that's why our proposal envisages a second title that includes proposals from public policies to be driven under an outlook of social justice and empowerment. They are support measures in different areas, and those that are related to some type of bonus because, of course, they are subject to the income criterion. But we also want to think about this. The income criterion has to help us redistribute wealth in society and equal it, not just to address the most extreme cases, which is what largely offers us tax policy by the Galician Union and economic incentive policy, cases that have to be in extreme poverty to accommodate some kind of bonus. That of itself is already pejorative, because it is already part of the situation of these families that must always be extreme. I want to remember that it is indeed disturbing the report of the state of poverty in Galicia, made public by the Galician Network of Combating Poverty. This collective is marked by single-parent families as the weakest, the most likely to suffer from poverty. In fact, it indicates that more than half — 53% — of these homes are located under the poverty and social exclusion threshold — this in 2016, but it is an increasing trend. And I repeat, there are more than half of single-parent homes below the poverty line. In view of this, we must act, and we propose measures in several areas. In teaching, for example, we have to start with the earliest ages, because the first few years are conciliation, but we insist that they are also education. And it is very good that, as is currently done, priority should be given to these families, but that in order to give priority and that this is effective there must be a public service system. And that doesn't exist today. That's why we're proposing to expand the network of children's schools and that the Union will increase, at least, in 8,000 public squares in the next three years. This is an example, in addition, that by betting on single parents no one will lose. All society and all kinds of families will win. We propose specific issues also in primary and secondary schools, because it's not just about priority in access to education, we need to see mechanisms to ensure that these families are not harmed in the early morning hours. I also want to do special fincapé at the university stage, it's a big challenge ahead. They need, for example, specific bags. Because we can't afford no single child of a single parent family to have that as a handicap to get to college. Another area which for us is key — and we include — is housing. Housing is a problem in our country, but all the data, such as the VI Report on Single Parenthood and Employment, by Adecco, estimate that if half of the women in front of a single parent family are unemployed, an important part of them share housing because I'm not able to reach the end of the month in an independent housing. This has to be attended to by Galicia. There are other communities that are taking steps to avoid the maturing of this kind of family because it is already a very serious social problem, and we have to move forward. In addition, we also refer to measures to prevent vulnerability in basic water, light and gas services. And we also call for greater effort in the expansion of rights in the private sector and in the autonomic public sector. Think for a moment that a public sector worker can, for example, today, accumulate maternity leave, accumulate those permits for the birth of a child or daughter. But someone in the private sector can't. We have to negotiate, the Union has to be an interlocutor to go ahead with these policies. We also think, in the case of a hospitalized child who is a daughter or son of a single parent family, why he's going to have less days of his guiding figure than that of a two-parent family. It's absurd. Also tax measures that are not discriminatory for single-parent families, something by the way, that the People's Party states in its Family Law but does not comply with. Not only did he not arbitrate a single autonomous discount in the declaration of income in these years of application but he voted against in this very Parliament a proposal by the Nationalist Block of Wales to comply with his own and insufficient law. They forgot their single parents. A lot of them preach and they don't act. Finally, in my time I want to make one last consideration, and not least important. There is something that we think is an added value of this law and that the difference between other decrees and other projects that have moved into other autonomous communities. And it's not just the accreditation and definition of what these families are and what rights can be accommodated, but it goes further, it's also the sensitization and overcoming of prejudices. How many inadequate comments do children and children receive from these families? How many times do these women — the same as from the 30 are questioned if they don't have the programmed maternity — receive these comments from "how will they be able alone!" And if you're not crazy, etc.Is that what you're talking about? We live in a society that still drags many complexes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u20	...that make them questioned. This is not the kind of society we want to build. And to build a different kind of society, I insist that it is essential to move forward in a law like this, that it will lack, that it will be insufficient, but that at least it could be a starting point for opening a presentation, a dialogue with the whole society, with all the political parties represented in the House, which would lead us to a different future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u22	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u24	I'm just asking for generosity to the political groups and that among them all we step on the accelerator so we don't leave single-parent families behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u26	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Today I also want to begin by greeting the delegation of the Federation of Single Mothers for Election, which today accompanies us and with which the PSdG has also met on several occasions. To know this government's commitment to women, it is only necessary to see the judgment that we have just heard of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which says what we all already knew: that the Greek Government has tried to blow up the feminist strike of the 8M with minimal services that have just been cancelled, and that it plays a part of the administration as fundamental and as important as it is the Presidency of the Council of Galicia itself, where they have put on minimum abusive services. [[Applause]] If we ask ourselves how easy it is to have a family in Galicia today, because the picture is really depressing. That is for two reasons: the first of them, because the family policies that have been undertaken in this autonomous community — one must remember that the People's Party has ruled thirty-one years of democracy here in Galicia — have not been made and have not been able to protect the rights and freedoms of all people. They were focused on a particular ideology that was geared towards a very specific family model: the model family of the Episcopal Conference. That's the model we've been trying to instill in all of us in this country, and all the policies have been geared towards that. From that ideology it turned out that we weren't real women if we didn't have children or daughters. From that ideology they excluded assisted reproduction in 2013 for single women and lesbians, a measure that has just reverted to the Spanish Government in less than a hundred days. A curious way, ladies and gentlemen, to defend motherhood, to protect the family and promote birth, and more in an autonomous community that has a very serious demographic problem. The second reason, the main cause of this situation, is that the right-wing governments have put in place an aggressive policy of cutting-offs in everything that had some kind of linkage with women and with their own family: depending, for the older, for the boys and girls of their age of having children or children—which is completely unprotected—. But, I repeat, in a special way for women, leaving us completely in the open. The most obvious example is this policy of children's schools that we have been reporting for many years, which is intended to redirect the society of public children's schools to private schools. One of the main damages of this ideological model implemented by the People's Party are monomantal families, which are the most vulnerable, the most unprotected and, in a way, the most invisible to laws. These families have had a great increase in recent decades. First of all, because now maternity, having children or not, is more a personal decision than a divine mandate for women, as it was happening. And secondly, by the increase of these separations, which also increased a great deal — necessarily by cases of macho violence and, of course, also by the deaths of the progenitor. And all of this, when these homes represent about 10 percent — an adult in charge — more than 80 percent of the heads of families, so to speak, they are women, who suffer triple discrimination. And I want to stop at this point because it's important. In the workplace, women suffer discrimination because they are women, because they are mothers and alone. Women in homes where unemployment is doubled, the economy incubated, or long-term unemployment. Many of them have exhausted the aid, as has already been said here too, and with an index, a risk of poverty and exclusion, which doubles that of two-parent families. In addition, if we compare it to the situation in which many families find themselves, because there is clear discrimination, since they are not equal. There's a difference, in addition, if you get to this situation of monomarnetality by choice or by reason of survival. And I'm setting a specific example: a widowed woman who has two children immediately accesses the large family category, something that doesn't happen to those women who have children by their own choice. Once again, therefore, it is necessary to penalize a family model and those women who do not care — I repeat — to that model of the Episcopal Conference. There were autonomous communities that took steps in this direction. It is true that the Valencian Community in 2013, led by the People's Party, has made an absolutely minimum law that has been completed by the current progressive government of this autonomous community. In Catalonia too, there was a law that simply mentioned — and I want to highlight — the situation of monomarnetality. But they made a decree in 2009, later, that single-manent family accreditation was collected and they have a universal economic aid of EUR 745 per year for these families in particular. Galicia? In Galicia, the fact is that this typology is contemplated within the Law 2/2011, of support for family and coexistence, a law that my companions of that law have already criticized, as it has been said here, for the absolute lack of consensus, for the Roll of the People's Party; a law that had no concrete measures and that buried certain family models different from this imposed model. With which, in Galicia — as has been done in Catalonia and Valencia, almost in Madrid, if it hadn't been because the People's Party's Citizens gloved a whole that blocked a project that was interesting, and in Aragon, which is also underway — there is a need for much more inclusive regulatory development. Initiatives have also been presented in this legislation. In particular, the People's Party presented one at the beginning of 2017 — which was approved — in which it called for a specific programme of aid for monomantal families; an initiative without concrete measures and no kind of budgetary commitment, an initiative such as those that usually present the government-supporting group, of a social holder but without social content. Why? Because two months later, when the PSdeG brought an initiative to this House in which we were demanding specific issues, such as increasing autonomic deductions in the IRPF, developing an income guarantee program for these specific families or aids for transport, for housing or other of the Public Administration — of access to oppositions, for example, or even those addressed to the Government of Spain — the People's Party did what? Then he voted against it. What happens in the municipalities, because in the municipalities, in this institution closest to citizenship, social policies and policies for these families are also very important? It turns out that in the only city where the People's Party of the Seven of Galicia, in Ourense, ruled, one of the first things it did when it arrived in government was to suppress the program for monomantal families; a program set up by the former socialist government that allowed those families to have a double service, by setting an example, of playful house with a wide hours of care and home service. By the way, speaking of the home service, we also knew yesterday, by the concessionaire himself, that the Council of Ourense owes to the company that is responsible for this service 1.8 million euros. Of course, nothing to boast about in this county either. [[Applause]] So if the women you lead monomantian families are alone, it's not because you don't have a parent or tutor, which may be the result of your free choice; it's because, where they rule the right hand, they have completely abandoned you. Nevertheless, Mrs Presas, we believe that this proposal lacks concretion, it can also be an opportunity to open this debate and, among all the political groups, to implement specific measures. We will support this consideration. We always advocate that diversity and equal opportunities must be the social engine in this country, including the family environment. And the best way to guarantee these rights is through regulation also of the various family models, which guarantee their legal recognition — which, as we said, until now is not clear — and above all that aid scheme that is so necessary for these families. And thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u28	Thank you, President. Good morning. Before I begin, I want to acknowledge all the efforts of all women's groups and, of course, also greet the women who accompany us today from the rostrum, of the Association of Single Mothers by Election, who do a fundamental work, first of all, of the visibility of this reality. This first step is necessary: visibility. Because, despite the large number of single-parent families that exist in our country, which is a reality that is growing, unfortunately, this is a question that continues to be too absent from many political debates, too absent from current legislation. First of all, we have to say that we are going to vote in favour of this bill, this procedure. It seems to us that it is very necessary to legislate on this issue, and it also seems to us that, in addition to being necessary, it is urgent, because we have been too late on this issue for many years and we need to give it forward with speed. We believe that the collection in the current legislation, in Law 3/2011, of support to the family and the coexistence of Galicia, is totally insufficient and is not serving to respond to the needs of these families. Clearly, there's a lot more to it. That's why we believe that it is necessary to develop, but also to increase, the legislation that exists on this subject. We believe that this proposal will open up an opportunity — as the other speakers said — to debate for the moment. You can improve, you can make more proposals, but it's very important that you go ahead and be able to debate this issue. If we are really concerned about the situation of single-parent families, we would not understand in any circumstance that the People's Party has rejected this debate. And when we talk about families, we believe that, despite the fact that reality has changed notoriously in recent years, unfortunately many prejudices continue to be present that resemble "family" to a single family model, to a traditional model made up of a man and a woman — as it has also been said — settled in the deep sexual division of work, and all other realities are excluded. And the causes for this to happen are multiple, but the most important thing is -- I would say one of the most important -- is the absence of this kind of family in legislation. As I say, that almost anecdotal appointment in the Family Law is totally insufficient. And if it's not named, if it's not legislate, then we're not going to move forward on these issues. But it is also important to bear in mind that the public policies that have been pursued in recent years have a profound ideological burden. They were not meant to support families, they were meant to support a single family model, the reproduction of this traditional model, of course, that when we talk about families, we have to talk plural. There is not a single model of family, families are many, they are diverse, and we have to address this reality in order to answer all these people, because, if not, we will be making unfair public policies that, despite saying they defend the family, do not defend all people but only defend those who help perpetuate this conservative scheme. And we should really stop thinking about how worrying it is that, in the face of a reality like that of single-parent families, which is a reality that is going to increase—just look at the IGE data to realize what we are talking about—we still have to be debating to put in place the most basic measures, such as recognition, recognition and — as they said — many other support policies, but we don't even have recognition. Despite many unfulfilled promises, despite having a note on the People's Party website, today we have no progress, for example, in the famous single-parent family register. And we think it's not worth anything here saying that families are supported when then, at the time of truth, there's not one public support for policies that really defend all these people. As in all debates, but I think today especially, when we talk about any issue, the issue of gender goes through this issue in a fundamental way, because most of these families are made up of women and this has very concrete consequences. They have more difficulties because women have more difficulties, the labour market is not neutral, the genre we know is not the same for men and women, that being women is going to have a lower wage, to have more precariousness, to have greater instability. So when we talk about these families it is very important to keep these issues in mind at all times. And another of the issues that continues to be too socialized, when we talk about single-parent families, when we talk about this reality, is that there are many women who decide to be single mothers because they do, without any other reason, because they want to, because they want to. And we also have to ask what world we live in when these women who freely decide to be single mothers have more difficulty than other people who end up having a single parent home under other circumstances. The only reasons for these differences are deeply ideological and, of course, deeply unfair. And when we talk about families, it's also very important that we talk about reconciliation. Because, unfortunately, we have been losing any rights to conciliation for too many years. We have to say that there is no real reconciliation in this country. Above all, there is no conciliation for which there is no economic resources, but generally there is no conciliation for anyone. There are no squares in public kindergartens, there are no squares in children's schools, there are no daycare services, school lunches, support for caregivers... in fact, what we're going to say is that it's real will to understand what it means to reconcile and what we have to do so that a living life, with reconciliation, can be brought forward by families. As I said, conciliating is often impossible for families that have two parents, we can imagine the situation that people have one person. That is why it is important that, when we talk about resources and support for these families, we also have all these resources present so that we can reconcile, as I said, so that we can live. But it is true that, despite not being the only measure, economic resources are also needed. Because, as I said, data also leaves very worrying situations. 53% of these families are at risk of social exclusion, which shows that we have a very serious problem that is not being dealt with, that is totally leaving aside and that it is urgent to take action. As I said, I think today we can take a first step to reverse this situation, we can open a real debate on what to do. We believe that it is not time for more unfulfilled promises, for alarms of all those promises that have been said for many years, that they will be put in place and that they will not be needed. And, above all, we need no specific partial initiatives, we need policies that are ambitious, comprehensive policies that block the whole system and the lives of these people. That's why I think there's to be added to the support and recognition they've already made other territories. Galicia must also join, and also, as they said, we must go further. And we believe that today the People's Party has a good date to prove whether they really bet on equality, whether they really defend families, as they say in most of their speeches, or whether the facts will again go on the other side quite different than those speeches. Unfortunately, as already noted, yesterday there was evidence of the real wager of the Galician Union for equality, and we have to point it out. It is regrettable that the Galician Union had violated the right to strike the workers of the Union, something which should be ashamed of them, something which should be regrettable. And at least they should apologize. We hope you will apologize for this decision by the German Government. March 8 was a historic strike despite all the obstacles that the Government wanted to put in this process. By our band, we will make every effort to achieve real progress in this matter. And I finish, again, thanking them all the effort, all the progress, all the visibility that all these women make to conquer a more egalitarian and feminist society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning also to the Association of Single Mothers by Election, who were also in our parliamentary group. First of all, I would like to say that, fortunately, the Greek society is ahead of what is being said in this parliamentary debate. Fortunately, Galician society is an advanced society, and we believe that support for single-parent families is an important enough issue to address it seriously. And to address it seriously we believe that it would not be necessary in this debate to use certain mantras, as the People's Party only supports the families of the Episcopal Conference, as the People's Party does not banner the feminist struggle and that is the flag of the opposition groups. So if you really want to talk about support for single-parent families, I would like to ask that this debate be held and taken seriously. Because what we just heard has absolutely nothing to do with the support of single-parent families. [[Applause]] I would also like to remember, because it seems that in this debate it has forgotten that Galicia has had since 2011 a family law, a law to support the family and the coexistence of Galicia. I quote it, because it seems to be forgotten. This law states that the family, in all its manifestations and forms of organization, must be protected by public authorities. This support must respond to the complexity of our society and give solutions to the different families or stable groups of coexistence. So I think that, in order to start a debate on support for single-parent families, we need to know exactly what the Galician Family Law contemplates. Because, look, we know that not all families are the same -- we know it here and we know it, the Greek society -- neither have the same needs or characteristics. That's why this Welsh family law recognizes families of special consideration. And what are those families of special consideration that collects the Greek law? First, single-parent families, both single-parent families in origin, by their own decision, as well as single-parent families for surviving causes, all single-parent families. It also collects numerous families, foster families, families with dependent dependants, families with disabled people in charge and families with older people in charge. And besides recognizing these families as special consideration, this law is what it does to contemplate a preferential treatment for all these families. For example, the preference in the adjudication of squares in children's schools — surely this does not seem to be charity to you. In the call for aid from the Bono Concilia and the Bono Care, there is preference; preference for access to children's homes, risk assessment, employment promotion and work integration programmes, the German Housing Plan or the admission of students to educational centres. So I would like to remind you that there are measures for single-parent families that are included in the Galician Joint Family Law. And I would also like to recall that there are measures at the state level, economic benefits for birth or adoption, reductions in the IRPF — EUR 2,150 on the general tax base —, early abortion or tax deduction by single-parent families with more than one child, unemployment protection or consideration as a preferred group in unemployment benefit. The Galician Union, along with entities and associations, is working on the launch of the Welsh Family Policy Plan. Here's the councillor reporting on that Welsh Family Policy Plan. This plan includes, among other measures, the creation of a single-parent family register — which is what you ask for in your proposal — and a system of specific benefits for these families, which you also request in your own initiative. In addition, Junta is developing a single-parent family aid program, and for that it is in contact with associations, associations of single mothers by choice and associations of single-parent families from Galicia, to collect their demands. The State Network of Single Parent Families claims something fundamental, demands a specific law to match with the numerous families. That's what the State Network of Single-parent Families claims. They demand a regulatory change to recognize as numerous single-parent families with more than one child. In January 2017 it was the People's Parliamentary Group that presented an initiative to demand that the Government of Spain amend the legislation on single-parent families with more than one child, so that they would be considered numerous families. It was adopted, but not with the votes of all the parliamentary groups in this House, not with all the votes of the parliamentary groups in this House. On the other hand, the network wants to regulate the concept of a single parent family, but not only that it regulates itself in Galicia, Catalonia or the Balearic Islands. What you want is for them to regulate at national level, which it is necessary for single-parent families to be recognized throughout the territory in an equivalent way. Because we know that many autonomous communities have begun to regulate, but we know that in each autonomous community there is a different regulation. So what single-parent families claim is that they are equally recognized throughout the territory. One position in which the State Network of Single Parent Families agrees is to request the State Administration to deal with coordination with autonomous communities in order to achieve a uniform definition of single parent families. You don't talk about it either. The German Family Support Act not only recognizes single-parent families and regulates them, but considers them as families of special consideration. We believe that no rule of law is required to regulate a matter that has already been defined in a Welsh family law. We believe that, in any case, the right thing would be to draw up and adopt a regulation developing the concept, registration and support measures for single-parent families. That's what we think is timely. In this sense, the Social Policy Council foresees as a first step the establishment of a single-parent family register and a specific aid programme for these families. Because, look, to say right now that Galicia doesn't have conciliation measures is to lie, it's to lie! What you can't come here to claim from the opposition is that 3,000 squares are increasing the number of infant schools squares when they could actually set up those infant schools and what they did was turn around the city halls. Because in Galicia we found no more squares of children's schools than those that were launched by the Government of the People's Party. It's just that it's very easy to claim children's school squares and then not recognize what's being done, because in 2018-2019 the Greek families have at their disposal 24,081 children's school squares. [[Applause]] In Galicia we have a ratio of 41%, eight points more than the rate recommended by the European Union. And besides, there are other conciliation measures besides the Greek Network of Children's Schools, which is very important. There is the Bono Concilia, there are the children's houses — because I believe that the rural reconciliation resources will be important to them, because in Galicia there are many municipalities in rural areas. Well, there are 46 child care equipment for rural employment conciliation. And there's also direct help to families -- the Welcome Card -- that card that they didn't like at all -- arrived at over 30,000 children from their start-up, 80% of children born in Galicia. And it also extended to 3 years. The Welcome Card was raised to 45,000 euros of maximum annual income per family unit, because many single-parent families could not access it. And Junta corrected that so that single-parent families could access the Welcome Card. And, in addition, there is an increase in the tax deduction by birth or adoption, the single payment allowance and the subsidies on fees in children's schools. Single-parent families, ladies and gentlemen, have an increasing weight in our society. And we know that because we don't live here on these walls of Parliament, we live with society. Society knows that single-parent families are becoming more and more important in our community right now. And we know that the Galician Union has to take care of single-parent families when it's going to set up programs or new aids, and that's how it's doing it. Of course, what we consider appropriate is that single-parent families need to be regulated in Galicia, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u31	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u32	...don't make a new law just talking about it. We believe that the right thing would be a regulation that developed it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Replica from the author group of the bill. Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u34	We thank both En Marea and the PSdEG for their support in this vote. And I'm going to make several considerations about the intervention of the People's Party spokesman, despite the fact that it was tremendously contradictory. Because, on the one hand, not to say that there is a need to regulate, but, on the other hand, that this law does not; that everything they have done is enough and is enough but, on the other hand, this remains... a revolutionary whole in which the truth is complicated to sort out the ideas for those who presume so serious. You come here saying that it's not a serious proposal because no concrete action is taken. We'll see some of the specific issues that you're not willing to ask. You come here already saying, as a starting point, that we speak nothing of the law of the Galician family, when all the vocabularies mentioned the insufficiency of that family law. And I explained in detail why that concept is not enough. But as you create that parallel reality, I have here the Dog — Family Law of 2011, article 13, concept. It includes at the end of the single-parent family definition a comma, which says, "...always that another parent or parent does not contribute economically to their livelihood." It's not so hard to understand that there may be no other parent. There may be families who, by choice, from the very first moment of the beginning of the family relationship, have only one parent, whether male or female. That reality exists, that reality is ignored, ignored by the Greek legislation and ignored by the state legislation. That's right. There are attempts from the autonomous communities. There are interesting issues such as yesterday's decree that came into force in Valencia, and as other issues that are being discussed, that are interesting and that would somewhat complete the categorization of the single parent family. But you dare to be ambitious and ambitious from the Greek Parliament and that, for the first time in the history of the Greek Parliament but also at the level of other communities and also at the state level, because we have a law that recognizes what this collective is asking for: that single-parent families who are of their own choosing be visible. Because if we don't make them visible, they're going to continue operating prejudices that actually make many levels not equal. And of course society out there is advanced, and often much more advanced than laws do, of course. And it acts of impulse. That's what's happening with this question, so you're doing what you're doing, and here comes the counsellor putting in the middle of fifty things single-parent families, because they know there's a society outside that's demanding that we take steps. The question is whether you want Galicia to be vanguarded, once again, in feminist politics or to stay behind again, as they're doing with their nine years of government. Because today we could make a balance too. Just today, September 25, two years ago, we've all been elected. For the BNG it is a pride that this is, in addition, after March 8th, the second feminist law that we bring to this House. But you have voted against the previous one, you will vote against it, you have also voted against another proposal which you brought to the tide on conciliation, you have voted against a feminist proposal by the trans collective. So their balance is two years of legislation in which they did not present a single law or proposal for a change of law that advances in the matter of equality, and voted against all the others. Well, let's balance the feminism and balance the equality of single-parent families! I will no longer mention the complaint that came out in favour of the IGC last Friday, which denounces the "malicious" attempt — the literal word that appears in the judgment — to prevent the achievement of that strike by workers in the autonomic public sector. But we could talk about, for example, that this next Monday they go back to the working street of the Galician Union because if they're prevented from reconciling them, we can talk about continuing to discriminate against the workers of the Galician Union and a long et cetera. But I do want to leave some proof of her determination, specifically what we're talking about, which are single-parent families. I insist that what we're talking about doesn't exist. You talk a lot about that family plan that's been in draft fifty years, and that's been incorporating that record for years, which is a historical demand from the collective -- it's not even a BNG occurrence, but it's not your occurrence. 2010: "The Board will create a single-parent family register." 2012 — draft Family Policy Plan — "The Board will create a single-parent family register". 2018: the councillor, in this House — only after knowing that there would be a specific law to debate in this Parliament — comes back with creating... by the way, welcome, Mr. King Varela. It's a shame I haven't had time to come to the debate, I'm sure I'd pick up some interesting approach. It is also symptomatic that the Galician Union is never present in these debates. I think in the 21st century it won't be as difficult to take any symbolic step as creating that record, as making a 21st century meatball, and not an obsolete family certificate sheet. But we have many more examples of the desire of the Galician Union, other equality plans, for example. Because no one will deny that this matter is fundamental to women's equality in our society. In the family co-responsibility plan, which took out the Galician board after March 8th...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u36	...the Greeks will leave the street, not one specific proposal for single-parent families. Then you come here to talk about 50 percent of your conciliation intervention, but you've forgotten it in that plan. Another key area is education. The current Education Equality Plan makes no mention of this family model. Are we going to educate our children on equality without teaching them that there are other types of family? Finally, more signs of desire, more than three plans of the Galician Union that don't even contemplate this. I don't know how long I've got.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u37	It's just that we have a problem with that today. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u38	It's just that I've got a mouse.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u39	It's almost six minutes already. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u40	Well, I'm done. We could talk about many more issues, of repeated non-compliances. Because you have no credibility, spokeswoman of the People's Party, when they come here to give us a cut of unmet promises and when not even, since 2011, they have arbitrated a single autonomic discount in the statement of income for this kind of family. And they voted against it, voted against their own law, which gives an idea of their level of nonsense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u42	It simply ends — indeed, Mr President — by thanking the collectives who have helped us with their support and by promising us that this will not be the last time this Parliament places single-parent families, and especially those who are by choice, at the heart of the debate. In other matters it has been shown how the right has always been behind feminism in this country, and they will yield again in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Sorry, but we have a problem with the optical and acoustic signals, with the two of us, because it doesn't work either, and that's why we've been tracking them to vote. We'll try to solve it, but it's technology stuff. We can do everything, but there are things we can't fix. Let's vote. Please close the doors. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u44	We started by voting on the legislative texts. First, the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, amending Law 12/2013 of 9 December 2013 on guarantees of health benefits in order to strengthen the public health system. We vote. [[The electronic voting system does not work.]] You're not? Well, let's vote up. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. Socialist, amending Law 12/2013 of 9 December 2013 on guarantees of health benefits, in order to strengthen the public health system. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this bill is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u45	We are now voting on the proposed legislation of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales, on the recognition and support of single-parent families. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, Galician recognition and support of single-parent families. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this bill is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u46	The votes were finished. Let's turn to item 3 on the agenda, which corresponds to appearances. Like Mr Sanitary Counsellor, on his own request, to report on the agreements reached with the trade union organisations on careers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u47	To make this appearance, you have the word of the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u48	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I compare myself to this House, to report on the agreement reached with trade union organizations on careers. We thus fulfilled our commitment to the 2016 electoral programme — speaking of professional development — to the Council's 2020 strategy — professionals committed and cared for by the organization, as well as to the October 2017 budget appearance. I would like to begin by thanking the professionals, the trade unions, CESM, SATSE, UXT, CSIF and CIG — some of whom are with us today listening to this appearance — and the Human Resources Team of the Council made the effort to get here. Let me start by explaining first what the professional career is. The professional career consists of the right of professionals to progress individually as a recognition of their development in relation to knowledge, training, experience, research, teaching and other relevant aspects, as appropriate, for the corresponding profession, group or professional category. The objectives of a career system are to recognize the proximity of professionals to improve the quality of public health services, to distinguish them by giving them objective recognition of their professional and individual competence, to generate more co-responsibility of professionals and to foster the culture of commitment to the public health system, to promote the updating of their knowledge and skills and to improve their qualification. On the opportunity to establish an ordinary career scheme, the Galician Health Administration has noted the need to regulate and implement a professional career model for the staff of public health institutions, in developing that provided for in Law 55/2003, of the Framework Staff Regulations of the Health Services Statutory, and of Law 44/2003, on the management of health professions. The economic circumstances of recent years, the measures taken in the field of public employment and the rules and budgetary provisions have made it impossible to promote negotiations with certain expectations of consensus at the negotiating sectoral table. The improvement of this economic and budgetary situation — which has already resulted in the recovery in recent years of certain suspended rights — has allowed the Galician Health Service and trade union organizations to agree, in October 2017, to begin negotiations on the basis of professional careers, to promote it as a matter of priority in seeking to conclude negotiations and reach an agreement in 2018. By fulfilling our commitment, at the sectoral table on 6 July 2018, the Health Council reached agreement with most of the trade union organizations represented at the above table, in particular with CESM, SATSE, UXT, CSIF and IGC, and established the foundations of professional career in the field of the Galician Health Service and the entities affiliated with the Health Council, to that body. The agreement was expressly and formally approved by the Council of the Board at the meeting on 19 July 2018, and published in the DOG on the 20th of July. This agreement implies the first establishment in the Community of Galicia of a true ordinary career system, and for all professional groups without distinction. These career bases will allow them to recognize the proximity of the professionals of public health institutions throughout their working life and the improvement of the quality of service, by boosting and valuing their development in aspects relevant to the corresponding profession, group or professional category, as well as their participation in the organization's objectives. The implanted professional career system has the following characteristics. On the one hand, it is voluntary, it is up to the staff to decide whether to join the career system and the pace of progression in the different degrees that set it up, meeting the requirements set. In fact, the possibility of enrolling in the professional career ends within three days, and I take advantage to say, if there is still any professional who has not established or requested incorporation, which can do so if he considers it so. It's custom, too. Degree recognition is personal and individual, and it will be considered the merits presented by the interested party. It's progressive. Access to the different degrees recognized in the career will be made successively throughout the working life, so that access to the higher degree will be possible only by believing the recognition of the degree immediately below and after a period of stay in it. It's also evaluable. The system is based on evaluation, subject to the merits of the person concerned. It's transparent. The elements and criteria for evaluation shall be public. It is up-to-date through the periodic review of the elements that are considered in the evaluation, so that they respond to the reality and changing needs of the health service, its professionals and the health and social environment. It is generally irreversible, except for serious and very serious disciplinary misconduct. But even in this assumption it is recoverable later. It's open. You do not have access limitations, without quotas, as long as the basic requirements set and the criteria defined for obtaining each degree are met. It is acceptable in relation to the degrees of professional career achieved in other health services. What is the structure of the ordinary career? The ordinary career is structured in an initial degree and four degrees: grade 1, grade 2 — senior —, grade 3 — expert — and grade 4 — referent. You have the right to a career, and you can therefore access the corresponding degree, the staff who are working in the administrations of the Greek health services and undersigned public entities — Public Foundation 061, Ados, Acis, Ingo, Galaria — irrespective of their status as a statuary, official or employment, and whenever they are in active, or in administrative situation with the right to reserve a place, believe the length of stay required and exceed the corresponding assessment. In the case of doctors and other medical graduates, grade 4, referent, it can be achieved after favorable evaluation in a period of twenty-two years, which places our community on the average of the demands in the national health system and under health services such as Catalonia or Basque Country. In the other categories, for the said degree, twenty-four years are required. What's the procedure? Well, the initial degree can be requested at any time. Procedures for accessing grades 1 to 4 will be initiated by public summons once a year in the Official Journal of Galicia. Each call shall determine the time limit for submitting applications, which may not be less than one month. Formalization of applications for grade recognition will be made by interested persons through the curriculum of the skilled professional in Fides, the Archive-and, electronically, not requiring their presentation on paper. How is the assessment for grade recognition? The evaluation shall be carried out by specific evaluation committees, established in each institution or entity. Sub-committees may be set up to assist categories which are subject to evaluation. What are the roles of these committees? First, carry out the evaluation for access to professional career degrees. Secondly, request supplementary reports which they consider appropriate for the evaluation. Thirdly, to issue the reports requested on this assessment. And fourthly, to make proposals to the body with competence in the field of recognition of career degrees, in relation to the outcome of the evaluation. Persons performing vowels shall be appointed by the person holding the management or address, taking into account categories that are subject to assessment. In its designation it will ensure the presence of at least one external evaluator designated by scientific societies or, failing it, by the Galician Agency for the Management of Health Knowledge (ACIS), a representative of the governing bodies, two representatives of the staff representation bodies and a representative of the service, unit or work area of the staff evaluated. The secretariat shall be exercised by a human resources professional, with a voice but without a vote. What's the barrier to the evaluation? They will adapt to the characteristics of each professional collective, profession or category and will be related, as appropriate, to knowledge, competences, care or performance of the job, training, teaching, research, innovation and involvement and commitment to the organization. The standards of merit and the evaluation process can be modulated into the care and/or organisational characteristics of the various institutions, centres, services or units. The basic structure is realized in four large areas. A first area, which is about care activity; a second area, about care competence; a third area, which includes training, teaching, research and health innovation; and a fourth area, which is the involvement and commitment to the organization, which are activities indicative of the professional's commitment to the organization and its participation in the internal management of the service or unit for the improvement of quality. It will have staff for the provision of services in centres of different localities or in centres that are difficult to cover — making here an important point to support coverage to more rural areas, to comarcas hospitals — exclusive dedication in the performance of the public sector position, performance of posts of management, coordination, supervision, direction and responsibility, or collaboration in corporate projects of a social, social, social and health or job risk prevention nature. Participation also in working groups, clinical commissions and formally constituted committees; participation in courts or selection bodies, provision and evaluation; participation in the protocols designed by the organization for the reception of newly incorporated staff; and other activities indicative of involvement and commitment to the organization that are not valued in other areas of the barrier. Internal promotion — also an important point — The career bases include a special consideration of internal promotion. Staff have made a category that is going to provide services in another by internal promotion, and will receive the same treatment as staff in this latter category for the purposes of accessing and making progress in the career. It will keep the right to perceive the career complement corresponding to the degrees recognized in the source category. If you have recognized degrees paid in various categories, grades 1 to 4, you will receive the career supplement corresponding to all recognized degrees, up to the limit of four degrees. When the professional has recognized more than four degrees, he will receive the career supplement corresponding to the four degrees of the highest count. Ladies and gentlemen, the objective of professional career is to recognize the proximity of professionals to the improvement of the quality of health services, to distinguish professionals by granting objective recognition to their individual professional competence and to generate more co-responsibility and foster the culture of commitment to the public health system. We have a magnificent public health system, which is an excellent professional part of which we can recognise today's professional career. We've been moving forward since last year we've reached an agreement on the negotiation with concrete months to achieve results, we're meeting all the deadlines, but, of course, as we've commented here, there's still a lot left to work on, on the subject of stopping, all that is development and progression. But today, the truth is that the answer we have from all the groups is very important and we're going to continue working on the development, because at the end of the career it has to be that: a stimulus for all professionals in the improvement of the public health service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u49	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs Prado Cores has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u50	Good morning. The truth is, Mr. Padre, I thank you for coming here to read us the DOG. At times when Galicia's public health is in a real emergency, at a time when after August 4 there had been a very serious situation in the Road CAP, where a person died, where you gave no explanation, where you didn't come here to this Parliament to explain, where you didn't agree to come to appear after we asked for it from the three opposition groups, where you didn't come on your own will, it turns out that today you come to show your own will to talk about the career and you limit yourself to reading the CEO. Well, you're the counselor and you'll know what you're doing, right? In view of the fact that it is impossible to prevent the setting up of a commission of inquiry on the road CAP, about which is the health situation, it turns out that the president of the Union and the People's Party are trying to change the story and are almost convinced that they are delighted that there is a commission of investigation, and they miss the time to come; a mockery towards society, towards the Greeks and the Greeks and towards the professionals. Because Mr. Núñez Fexóo even dared to mock the professionals, saying he was going to come here to defend the professionals; a real ridicule after all that they have attacked the health professionals' rights of our country. I don't know if you're happy to come over, I don't even think you've spoken about it, you won't even come over to this investigation commission, I don't even know if you're looking for it; I suppose not, because you never came here when you were asked to come; it would be the first time. What is true is that the health policy of the People's Party with regard to health professionals cannot be more regrettable. I've already said on more than one occasion that they've behaved like the worst employers. And today we're talking about the career as a great achievement. I have to tell you that the career is a supplementary salary, as set out in Article 43 of the Framework Statute, as well as the complement or specific supplement, of application therefore to staff, without discrimination. And this agreement of what you come here I would like to remind you that it has been paralysed by the People's Party for nine years, because it was agreed, like many other agreements paralysed by the People's Party when you returned to the Government of the Union, and that this agreement to which you arrived was not free either. It's not the agreement I intended to sign the People's Party and some others, and you, Counselor. No, no, no, no. This agreement was reached after eight months of conflict, the fruit of union work, the efforts of workers and workers, negotiation at the sectoral table, mobilizations and even strike, not of all, but of an effort of an important part of the workers and workers. Because it's not the ideal deal, it lacks aspects, but you'll try to get to them, but initially what you were proposing was insufficient. They claimed he had only limited himself to the regular staff, and he was very limited. Of course, professional career is not a mere economic recognition. It is an important tool for promoting professional development in terms of continuing training, commitment to public health, recognition of professional and personal effort, promotion and promotion of best professional practices, and which clearly render the patient’s benefit, which must be the fundamental objective. And that's why, of course, at the BNG we were glad that this agreement had been reached, that I insist it's not maximum, but it's much better than what was originally intended. The employment situation of public health personnel in Galicia has been and is a cause for concern for the BNG. We have put forward a lot of initiatives on this situation here in Parliament. We have been mobilized along with the workers and workers on the street, demanding a shift in the labour policy of the Galician Union, the People's Party, with regard to the reduction of squares, with respect to the OPs — not satisfied — regarding the precariousness of work, the recruitment for days and hours. By the way, I have you here today, for example, because you are still practicing an infamous labour policy, which makes many of the workers and workers of the system walk away. Look, for example, this summer, a simple example of a worker: a month, a contract of one day, another day, another day; this is just a month of a worker. [[Mr. Prado Colors displays a document.]] But they are not contracts to replace, they are contracts to accumulate tasks. You know what task accumulation means, don't you? It's not that they're replacing a missing person one day, because you don't replace them. This is your work policy. Well, this is an example I wanted to bring you here today. A person's 15 contracts one day, an example. And it's not an isolated case, it's a tonic. I have another person in the public system here too, and we could bring another one here. This is your work policy. Just like I have here today a question to comment on, because you're still lying violently. Today Mr Núñez Centeno has said again that there are more workers in the system, and they insist and persist. Look, I also have the Board of Auditors Control Report, where, for example, they do an exercise of doing a daily health system assessment of workers. This is reality, it's not budgeted, that then you don't meet, no; the daily workers who are in the system. And do you know what results these workers daily in the public health system, between 2009 and 2016?, because the last report is 2016. Well, the data remains today in a thousand more workers in the system. Because the data is that in hospital 631 professionals less daily in the system between 2009 and 2016. Board of Auditors, eh! What's the data? That in primary, the daily, between 2009 and 2016, 1,096 professionals less working the daily. That's the real data. That's what even those who are for hours here, even those who are for hours or days free. If we go staff done, owner, did, then the data are demolition. But already computing even substitutes, possible and other, Board of Auditors: daily professionals working in primary, 1,096 professionals less. The difference between 2009 and 2016, a thousand and I peak less workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u51	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u52	The data, Real Board of Auditors, aren't the ones they put in for it to contain well on the daily papers. This is the policy of real staff: fewer workers a day, less workers in the system, because this is the reality: less professionals working, so waiting lists, so no substitutions, so people suffering the consequences of their health policy every day. That's why, Counsellor, at the BNG, we were blessed that, as a result of the workers' efforts, of that negotiator effort, of that struggle in the street, of that struggle in the workplaces, if you could reach the approval of an implementation agreement for a career nine years after you had suspended it and nine years after you had paralyzed it. The People's Party, in staff policy, has little to boast about, has many duties to do, has much to do to eliminate precariousness, timeliness, to restore the personnel eliminated in public health in our country and has much to do to meet the demands of more than fair staff, of the CAP staff, of the staff of 061, of the general staff...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u54	...of health care in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u56	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. The truth, although it has been said, we cannot refuse to insist again on the same question. What happened this whole summer in the system and with health care and with the problems that there were, was to expect that you had not an appearance on this matter, which is good and which is timely and always good to be able to talk, but had had some other appearance before, at least it had not witnessed its presence here. And the truth is, I know that you don't like to be reminded of it, but the best way you don't remember it, that you refused to come up with difficult situations, was to have come in, Counselor. [[Applause]] I'm doing it today about the professional career to conclude an agreement. The agreements are always good. We will never be against any agreement, especially if you arrive with the workers or with most trade unions in this case, with the representation of most workers; it's always fine. We want to point out some questions about this. It must be remembered that the beginning of this agreement was quite forced, notoriously not by the Council's own will, notoriously. Even so, it's normal for a government like this to have no agreement with the workers, to be forced to do so. That's within the reasonable. And it must also be remembered that you now assume an agreement that you did not back up at your own time. Or what's the same, for making a bit of history: there was an agreement with the Government of the United States in 2005 that began to develop, the commander arrived and ordered to stop, in 2010 it stopped and now a small part of that agreement, with a very good previous work, which is to precarriage and exploit the whole system, dynamite it completely in work precariously, and so now it's out of the agreement a third of the professionals of the system. There was an agreement for all and now there is an agreement for two-thirds of the system, which is not even complete. There's not so much to celebrate, nor is there so much to celebrate. The agreements are fine, but there's not so much to celebrate either, because it's a little pirouta that it's assumed to have made now a progress that was already made but that you've stopped us, and it's a little pirouta. I understand that, within the legitimacy of the political debate, one must assume of the issues in which he moves, but in this truth, Counsellor, it is that they have not moved so far. It was done. In fact, it would be much better if you had taken the progress of that moment and so probably more personal if you'd been benefited and we'd probably be talking about a better treated staff than you have, that the truth is not quite well-treated, despite the undeniable and magnificent effort they make. And the truth could have treated them a little bit more historically, and in addition to the difficulties they constantly have, it would always be better. He's got some eels. One third of the professionals stay out. You know that some union has been alerted to this problem and, legitimately, it has been left out of the signing for this, and it does not cease to be worrying. One third of the healthcare professionals cannot benefit from this agreement and, as we said, basically because of a question of precariousness. We have one of the most precarious systems we know historically right now, and we have professionals in the weakest situation we know or can remember within the system. And this isn't good. Lack of stability causes more difficulties in assistance, more difficulties in planning, more costs; it's more inefficient. And, therefore, all those problems in the system are also achievable that when you celebrate a part of the agreement you have to be aware that there is a lot that does not exist. All this precariousness, therefore, shows a system still quite weak in terms of work, the product of a council that, in fact, by recalling some case, when the professionals of the CAP want to meet with the council are thrown out, when some union disagrees, is underestimated, when questions brought here to this Parliament that improve the quality of the professionals are turned against. Let's say there's a natural tendency to do it. And there are a lot of questions in the field of work, Mr Counsellor, which still remain unresolved and of which we know very little about the Council's deep and long-term opinion, because the only thing we know is, as stated in an interview, that "this is what there is," that truth -- let's say -- is not a depth of opinion that is not so long and so extensive; "that's what there is" is a little limited in this way between Trumpism and Aznarism, right? And I think this government should give a little more or go to other references. There are some issues, for example, the 400 million euros, about 300-four hundred million euros, which are used to pay for eventualities in the system each year. We are paying potential and timely or apparently timely issues between 300 and 400 million euros per year in the system. Many of them are professionals who are permanently in the system but eventually hired, which is a law fraud. And it's not what we say, is that the European Union has judgments against our system in Galicia, which say that we have to hire structurally those people who spend notoriously long time staying at the same job but who are sometimes hired from Monday to Friday, are dismissed, Monday again to Friday, are fired, and sometimes Monday to Friday and, if Friday is even on holiday, Monday to Thursday; and at the end of the week maybe the same people have to go to make replacements for hours or a day. And that's not an acceptable system, because it's not efficient. Unquestionably the whole system has to have a percentage of staff that has to be hired eventually to meet the needs, the punctual reinforcements, but it can't be the habit, and it's the habit of this system. We have EUR 400 million for that. Why? Well, among other things, because this government hires all professionals who are entitled to MIR, all personnel who form and end up being entitled MIR, a firm contract, less than 15% each year. On the other hand, 85%, some repeat the MIR, even to continue to maintain some practice, even because they don't want to disengage themselves from the system; many go to other places, some go into private health, and some, like they've no longer gone through, have to end up doing substitutions and they're working for two or three months a year in total. And it's not like we say it, the Dean of Medicine who, you know, clearly thought and said that the CHUS was a morticin hospital -- he said it's a hard qualifier -- because they weren't hiring enough MIR; the College of Doctors of Pontevedra said it; the College of Doctors of Ourense, recently, with its new leadership, which talked about the need to stabilize and contracts that are being quite precarious in the system. In fact, there's a problem of stability in the system, and the professional career, which is mined and only for two-thirds of the system, because you stopped it in 2010 and dynamiteed through the whole stable staff situation, doesn't practically solve that problem, it solves some problem, but not everything. There's a worrying working duality. There are professionals with the same training, practically with the same years of experience, doing the same work, who have two different working conditions. And this is a problem in the system. Why do you have two? Because one's a statuary and the other takes the same time but working on months contracts. And this is unacceptable in the system. First, for a worker's dignity, and second, because the system cannot afford to have two workers doing the same with different wages. It is a fundamental principle: the same work, the same salary; let us add: the same working conditions. And this doesn't happen in the system and it's a problem: two professionals doing the same thing, with the same training, with similar experience that they're in different work situations. It's not possible or it shouldn't be possible, it's not acceptable. Sure, what's the advantage? That one can exploit more, and that's not worthy, one can exploit more, and it's not worthy. [[Applause]] There's a level of precariousness as we've never seen, and we wonder if this appearance — moreover, as has been said here, of reading the CEO — would not serve to make a long-term or medium-term forecast of what we want to do, from where we have to go, where we want to grow from. Maybe even the Council may have strategic lines that you may not get later, but you may have strategic lines. What are they? I hope it's not that of "he's what there is," because, actually, we hope it's something else. But, of course, it's that the strategic lines of the Council can certainly be quite erratic. It is not to be remembered that the last, extraordinary, came here twice to Parliament, refused one, approved at another time the same proposal, which demonstrates a solid criterion without a doubt, which was forced retirement at one time in the '65s, then spoke of the '67s, came with the '68s, we actually danced so much with the retirements that we never know what the position of the Council is. Maybe it was just as simple and possible to make a prediction of when the professionals will retire and have a long-term forecast, if possible. We even asked here about the university squares and this government didn't even have a forecast, or -- reality -- you never want to tell it -- you never want to tell what you think -- if you had to have the same, less or more medicine squares. Because, in fact, the Government — and this is the conclusion that we have, unfortunately — has no desire to solve the problem. This Parliament for the only use of the Government is for propagandistic resonance box — one political task like any other — and without any doubt to escape. It is not a merit to escape the debates, Counselor, it is not a merit not to be able not to come here to talk about things; it is not even a merit to be angry when one is asked by some subject when he does not like, that sometimes there are themes that are not pleasing to anyone. It is not a merit to be able to come here not to answer things and to be happy to be able to avoid an answer. It's not worth not talking about things. And, of course, it's not a merit to conceal information. And, therefore, we invite you to agree, but since we have an audience, we know something more about the work policy of the Council of Galicia. Although it may be that many of us cannot like it and many others do, the reality is that at least knowing something about the opposition, because, if not, the truth is that this appearance, which initially looked good, could have saved it; by reading the agreement it was enough. And politics is more than just managing paperwork from one side to the other, it'll have to do with priority lines and political positions where you want to go. The truth is, actually, we miss knowing where the Council is headed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u58	...or sometimes it even scares you to know where you're going. And that's our problem. And we hope you can clarify something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u59	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u60	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. Almuña. Short and limited appearance to his, which, as has already been said here, was simply referred to the publication in the DOG. It saddens the times when trade unions have to negotiate between the crumbs and nothing, Mr Almuña, and all despite that increase or increase in GDP which, in fact, transmit all the economic bodies and the Council itself and even the Galician Economic and Social Council, which indicates the increase in poverty despite the growth of macroeconomics. And that has a lot to do with the absence of recovery of rights that have been stolen since the beginning of the capitalist crisis, Mr. Almuña. Of course, you come here today to present an agreement which, as you have already moved, leaves in question or leaves in the inkkeeper why you do not respect professionals of a potential nature and why in the case of labor and why in the case of the interns this recovery of rights is simply partial, Mr. Almuña, why you simply attend a percentage of the professionals. And this has a lot to do with the downsizing of staff, of regular professionals, of ownership. He told her here, we told him in a lot of appearances. The Board of Auditors indicates that the timing rates continue to be high and increase each year; in the last year analyzed, 37.6 % of the timeliness in the specialist and 26.3 % of the primary temporality. The Board of Auditors alerts to the decrease in the last exercise, only in the last exercise, of 689 effective means of proprietary staff professionals and the increase in eventuality. So, Mr. Padre, it's very easy to accept or approve or offer something that they should have recognized nine years ago when really a large part of the public system professionals will not be able to access those rights. It would be nice if you had transferred these professionals because they weren't recognized for their work, even though many of them have been working in the public health system for many years. Of course, it also has a lot to do with those repositioning rates that for many professionals have decreased in public health, and here we have to do a high — and it has been said before —. I want you to take advantage of your intervention to explain where your calculation of professionals in the public health system comes from. I don't know if you're counting any contracts or if you're simply counting memberships without counting retirements. It would be good if you explained here where these figures come from, that they don't match either the Board of Auditors or the Ministry of Public Administrations, nor the INE, nor any public data that exists in relation to professionals within the Public Health System in our Autonomous Community, please! because we believe you give a data that is authentically false, and is being given over and over again; it's Goebbels' technique, more known in this Parliament. Take advantage of today and tell us where that information comes from. We talked about it in another audience and in the previous rounds. For many years you've invited, forced yourself to retire to many medical professionals. Now we put our hands to the head with the absence of professionals, especially in pediatrics. You could use it to talk about it today. But he just read us a DOG. It would be good, Mr. Almuña, that you had talked about why they continue to allow the breach of Law 53/1984, which refers to the incompatibilities of public professionals in the service of public administrations, Mr. Almuña. They call us attention that you will positively value that exclusive addiction when it's really an obligation. It's not that you have to value it either positively or negatively, that you shouldn't be allowing that violation of the law. He draws attention that, in addition, they value him the most in the service heads. We're going to register an initiative now, as you know, and it would be good if you said it. The manager of the Galego Health Service, Mr. Campa, acknowledged that they had open files, the content of the data we have, totally insufficient. You reward him here again, as if he had not been obliged to comply with the law. And the truth is, he's getting a lot of attention. They'll reward you, as you said and moved here, or they'll value at least work within rural areas. Curious consolation prize after policing and finishing up with some of the health services within the rural environment in our country. We've just denounced him in the last few weeks since our group, and there's still a loss of professionals. The depreciations have affected the entire Galego Health Service, but they have a devastating effect when we're talking about rural areas and access to health services. It seems rather paradoxical that you're the prime man here, and yet there's no kind of attention about health planning. And it also seems curious that this is not accompanied by a budgetary memory. I'd like to know, Mr. Almuño, that you told us what the game is going to be in the next budget, that you'll enter, we understand that in a short time in this House, among other things, because you haven't even returned any extra payments you paid to the professionals since you entered the government; not all those extra payments are paid. We'd like to know which budget departure has been dedicated to being able to meet those improvements that are contained in this decree, in this order of professional career, especially when you continue without abducting the professionals from the points of attention that continue to be nighttime and holiday. We wonder why you can't throw these elements away and why you've just assumed here today something that doesn't reach all the professionals in the Galician Health Service and that we don't know if they're going to have a game dedicated to being able to pay for it, Mr. Almuñona. It is also rather curious that they speak in the decree — the truth is that they are motivated by professionals. We defend here on many occasions the need for continuing quality training to avoid, of course, that professionals go, to update the knowledge of professionals and professionals, but that this Council of Galicia, which genuinely despises professionals, speaks of motivation is at least paradoxical, Mr Almuña. And you could talk here today about the media ruling that condemns your Council, which condemns you for mistreating residents in Ourense province. Because, of course, for something you've deleted the sanitary areas. Now people have to charge for misery to go to the presence guards. It's a little bit more than, unfortunately, we're all going to pay. Because with all the rulings that you lose, the paradox is that we have to pay them all, because the Health Council is a public entity and the Galician Health Service is a public entity, Mr. Almuína. Tell us — you come here today to assume the quality of the work of both the professionals and the professionals — why they forced the professionals in 15 or 20 minutes, something which is obviously totally impossible, Mr Almuína. Where's the professional respect? Where's the quality of care? Where are the work rights for potential residents, for those people who still can't access this that you present to us here today? I believe that, simply, this presentation, Mr. Almoigna, is a face-washing, trying to give positive news in the midst of the nightmare of negative news from which you — obviously, not just you, fortunately — will have to account in that investigation commission. There is a lot of pain in the cuts and privatizations of the last nine years, Mr. Almuña, a lot of pain, because they meant loss of work rights, because they meant loss of rights in access to health, and of course today you should do something more here, in our understanding of, of course, that reading the order that is published in the CEO. It would be nice if you had also talked about that public job offer, about the absence of the call for squares for many categories, and of course from that contempt that you make to any professionals and professionals. So you have the questions on the table, Mr. Almuña. Tell us about the budget, tell us about the potential professionals, tell us how this professional career will be applied, tell us about this sentence, talk about what the Board of Auditors says, and please illustrate us with its intelligence by giving us the calculation of how you calculate the professionals currently in the Galician Health Service.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. You have the reply of the Health Counsellor, Mr Vázquez Almuína. [[Murmurs.]] Oh, sorry, sorry! It was marked here. It is the turn of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u62	Thank you, President. Good day again, Your Honor. Good morning, Counselor. And from the majority group we want to thank you for your presence, your presence in this plenary, for explaining the process developed for the approval of the professional career, for all professional groups, for all professional groups of the Galego Health Service, which has agreed with the different trade union organizations. We would also like to congratulate all the members of the Council who have worked to achieve this agreement and, of course, all the representatives of the different trade unions, the CESM, as you said, of SATSE, CSIF, UXT and IGC, who have signed this agreement. [[Applause]] It was certainly a hard job but it solved a fair claim from professionals, workers and workers of the Public Health System in Galicia. That's why it's very surprising the speech we've just heard, Mr. Counselor, of the voices of the groups. The agreement was so broad that it was even signed by the IGC, which is not recently distinguished by signing too many agreements. Here's about almost everything but professional career. And I was saying, Mrs. Prado, that a deal was reached, not at all, but better than it was intended. I believe that in the dictionary of the Spanish Royal Academy, which quoted Mr. Torrado earlier, that's called "negotiation." If that's not a negotiation, God come and see him. And this is about the Research Committee, with very interesting things. A spokesman or spokesman of the opposition, in the previous intervention in the debate of the law, accused the president or criticized that President Feijóo had announced his appearance or his request to appear in the Commission and now you ask him to announce it here in full; well, these strange things that happen here. Indeed, the agreement was paralysed; it was paralysed by the economic circumstances of the year 2008. Here we have talked about reports from the Board of Auditors and I would like you to review the reports of the Board of Auditors of the year 2008 as to how the situation of the Greek health was. Now let's also forget about that debt there was for those advance state liquidation, which we're still returning now. I don't think the situation was for many parties. And you started by defining your career. We believe that this definition is important. Why? Because you recognize -- and you said it -- that it is a right of professionals to progress with a recognition by valuing experience, but not only antiquity, but experience, adding knowledge, training, research, teaching and other relevant aspects to each profession or professional category. Of course — and it has always been my opinion, for many years now — that professional career cannot be an extra extraordinary wage, it cannot be an extra extraordinary payment, an extraordinary old-age payment; that's why there are the trienniums. And that professional career has a series of goals, which you've also mentioned, which is to recognize the proximity of professionals to improve the quality of service — here we're talking about the citizen. And also recognizing this professional competition is distinguishing it, generating system co-responsibility. System workers must also be responsible for what we do and evaluate commitment to public health or update knowledge and skills, improving the qualifications of all the people we work in Greek public health. It has to be a recognition of the improvement in the training, updating and humanization of health care and must benefit the true centre of the health system. And the real center of the health system is the patient. Professional career needs to improve patient care. Of course we all know, even if some forget, the years we've just spent, and it gives the feeling sometimes, listening, that what happened from the crisis, what happened from the cut in public income, the public money, did not exist. Fortunately, with the effort of citizenship, we overcome that situation. One hundred and twenty days ago we did not overcome this situation, economic indicators were not worth the job situation, the unemployment situation was not useful; now it seems that yes, now the new Government seems to admit that the economic situation is better, and it seems that the labour situation is also better, despite the fact that the unemployment figures in August should make us possibly reflect. And, as you well said, that economic recovery has made it easier to negotiate that recovery of the basic rights of professional careers; it has been negotiated and reached an agreement; it seems to be disturbing in some cases that an agreement has been reached. And this agreement implies, for the first time, the establishment in the Autonomous Community of a true career system, for all professional groups, and that it ceases to be, as it said before, an antique prize to become a recognition of excellence and improvement to improve health care, to improve the quality of health care we provide to the people, to the Greeks and to the Greeks. And, of course, what you've also talked about, you have to look at the characteristics of the implementation of the career, which has to be voluntary — no doubt -, you have to be personalized, you have to rely on the merits of each one, you don't have to be general, you have to be individualized based on the merits of each one. We also talked about the composition of the evaluation committees and their functions. There's an external evaluator, which we think is a guarantee, designated by scientific societies rather than by staff representatives. It's covered by the decree, and that's what we think from the majority group that's good, because it's a guarantee to make things right. Also about the decree you spoke of barriers, assistance activities, assistance competence, training, teaching and research. For me, it's essential; that's to value training, that's to value the work of the tutors in hospitals and primary care centers; that must be valued and taken into account in the career. I also want to do special fine-tuned in the involvement and commitment to the organization. Here it is now protected because if you want to value or score or barrem to play hard-covered positions. I believe that this is a situation that is being done in all autonomous communities, in the face of the shortage of professionals and the difficulty that it has today even to cover the posts of certain hospitals and certain localities, both in primary and in hospital. Value and score that dedication as it can be one of the systems that helps solve this difficult situation. Were there autonomous communities -- and you know that -- how did they solve the summer vacation problem? By placing doctors recently licensed without specialization in primary care. I think that, at least, is dubious legality; I don't know if it can be done or not, but there are of course doubts. I also find the support or barrier of exclusive dedication remarkable. I am of course an absolute advocate of freedom. I believe that the doctor or any other health professional must have the freedom to exercise in public and in private, must have that freedom, always complying with the law. The public cannot be used to benefit from the private, but it can be exercised within the same freedom. And that exclusive addiction has to be and can be, and to us from the group it seems perfect that this is a point to be barred in the development of professional career. We also believe that the considerations you have made about internal promotion are important. Internal promotion must be valued, and those differences that may exist according to the professional category that is performed at one time or another must also be included in this scale of professional career. I will end by thanking you again for your presence and thanking you again for all this work of the Council's staff, of human resources and of the Council's workers, and all that work of the various trade union organizations, which I think in this case have achieved and signed a very important advance and an advance claimed by the professionals of the Greek health system, which is the set-up or the restoration of the rights of professional career in the health system. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Now it is. The health adviser, Mr. Vázquez Almuña, has the floor for reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u64	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Of course you don't like the opposition to professional career, you don't like it, but you don't -- let's say -- no argumentaries, just start talking about any subject that comes to mind. We, however, have come here to come and talk about something transcendental, which is the professional career, which is certainly important in the future of our public health. The recognition of professional degrees will grant professionals the following rights: their record, for curriculum purposes, to publicly record the degree of development they have achieved, to access the higher degree whenever the other requirements are satisfied and to the perception of career complement. Degrees 1 to 4 recognised by the statutory staff shall be paid by means of the career supplement established as a supplementary salary of a fixed nature for the corresponding degree or category. The annual accounts received from this supplement will be paid in 12 monthly instalments. This supplement shall in any event be received in the situation of active service in the relevant category and during the performance of posts or posts in the field of health administration. The content of the career supplement places the Autonomous Community of Galicia above the average remuneration of this concept in the national health system. It's the first time there's an ordinary career, and of course we're in front of a lot of health services. Even so, since the Health Council we will promote an amendment to Article 118(3) of Law 8/2008, as amended by the Galician Health Act 1/2018, to enable the retired staff to be paid with the career complement, thus fully equalizing the staff fixed and interim of our staff. Some autonomous communities also take this into account, but they're all after judicial judgements, not for negotiation with collectives and union representation. So the interiors have the possibility of recognizing the years worked. In this way, more than 3,000 people can earn a career, and Galicia is one of the first autonomous communities to make this recognition in ordinary career bases. The foundations of the career include an exceptional and transitional system of access to a degree more to professionals who in recent years have not been able to make progress in the career, due to the economic crisis and the limitations of staff costs imposed by budgetary legislation. This exceptional frame system is used to access or advance in the category or specialty career where the professional is in an active or reserved position on 1 July 2018. Recognition is subject to variation through the committees which for this purpose consist of the adscribed agencies or entities. The call for this procedure is already a reality, being published in the DOG of 6 August 2018. Professionals have until September 28th to submit their applications; there are three days left, and it is important that the percentage that is still to be asked for because they can do it. Applications will always be formalized through the electronicly enabled professional curriculum, Fides, Expediente-e, by the way, one of the achievements also achieved from the Health Council to have all the records of all our workers directly at the computer level, trying to eliminate the role already, and that in the processes of public competitions, or in this case of professional careers, they can be evaluated quickly and effectively by professionals, and that is being immediately followed by other autonomous communities to incorporate it — Fides, the Expediente-e—. On the other hand, at the Health Council we are already working for 2018, before the end of this year, to make new offers of integration in the statutory regime addressed to fixed staff members in the field of the implementation of Decrees 447 of 1996 and 91/2007 of 26 April, which refer mainly to officials and workmen transferred from deputies and other bodies. The recognized and derived career complement payment of this exceptional scheduling transitional scheme will take place in two annual years, distributed at a percentage of 60% in 2019 and 40% in 2020, so the professional will charge already 100 % of the count as from 2020. Remember that in other autonomous communities that reached the agreement, it took the period to three or four years to charge 100%. This first framework will allow more than twenty-two thousand professionals to have one degree more career, implying an average salary increase of 6%. This measure will cost around EUR 40 million. I think he was asking us to oppose economic data; economic data are going. So far, to this day, 20,600 recognitions of degree have been requested in the frame, which is now about 96% of possible applications, with which, as I say, it is interesting to know to that 3% or 4% that is left, so that we can make the request in these three days. The first call for access to grades 1 to 4 is the ordinary procedure — we are now talking about the ordinary procedure — which will be published in the second half of 2020. In that call, staff who have reached the condition of permanent service of the Galego de Saúde or entities registered before 31 December 2011 and who at the time of this first call shall be statutory staff shall be exempt from the requirement of stay in the previous grade provided for in point 6. This measure of exemption from the period of stay will allow around thirteen thousand professionals to advance the recognition of another degree more than the recognized in this year 2018. That is, the 2018 call, the transitional framework regime, plus the 2020 call — the first ordinary regime — will allow the recognition of two degrees more in two years. This allows, in part — not entirely but partly — to compensate for the years in which, due to the economic crisis, left-wing parties have led this country and part of the European Union to a serious problem of maintaining public services. And action has had to be taken, not only in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, but in all the autonomous communities, many, as I say, governed by that left which led to this situation, to this difficult situation, and which we are currently trying to recover. Depending on the budgetary availability, the payment of the recognized career supplement in 2020 will take place in two annual years, distributed at a percentage of 50% in 2021 and 50% in 2022, so that 100% of the counties will be charged as of 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, with this agreement we remain faithful to our commitment to continue working on quality public health and improving the working conditions of professionals working in the public health system in Galicia. The establishment of the foundations of professional careers and the wages derived from them are based on the set of measures already taken in public health to improve working conditions for Sergas' staff, such as the annual OPEs, the work stability plan — by the way, Mr. Torrado, the 5 per cent target in 2020, advancing what the Ministry of the Former Government has come to do as an objective for Spain, which, by the way, has also signed UXT at the national level, of 8%; our target is 5%; and also the flexibility in retirement age — of course, the opposition always speaks about the theme of professional retirement; it is a measure that has been taken across Spain, of all autonomous communities, not only in Galicia; Galicia was the last one to do so, trying to advance retirement age and it was also the first to resume and that the professional system they voluntarily could continue to work. Thank you very much to all the professionals, who during the difficult years of the crisis have been able to continue to improve the public health system in Galicia. For us, the professional career agreement is historic. Sergas' professional career is among the best in Spain, with criteria higher than those of the rest of the autonomous communities. Bloda has two very important achievements, which are the full equalization of rights for all staff and full economic recognition with the same rights for the interim staff. More than twenty-five thousand professionals can benefit from professional careers, which will mean an average increase in their wages of 6%. The full cycle for the licensed professional will be twenty-two years shorter than in communities like Catalonia or Basque Country, and for the rest of the staff it will be twenty-four years shorter than in communities like Catalonia and Basque Country. We're talking about that in other autonomous communities, mostly around the age of twenty-five to complete a career. There is a transitional system that can be accommodated by professionals who are currently active, and this flexibility allows staff to compete with professional careers for a two-degree recognition in two years. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u65	Thank you very much, Counselor. We have the possibility of opening a special round of clarifications. By the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u66	Well, sometimes I wonder how it's possible that in any negotiation with the Council would not advance and for things sometimes so simple and so clear as to require such a meeting. But now I explain: of course, it doesn't matter what you're talking about, because if you read your book then it's very difficult to move forward in nothing or in dialogue. Well, here the counselor comes to talk about his DOG and doesn't get out of his DOG; so, indeed, it's very complicated. Look at one thing: the BNG has already said that, in principle, this career is a breakthrough, and I have said it, but it is not a fruit of the effort of the Council or the People's Party, it has been the result of the struggle of workers and workers, who have not given up to the Council's claims or some who have signed at the beginning. [[Applause]] They didn't have a problem signing at first when the career excluded even the interiors, and that's what they intended to impose. And the struggle of the IGC, yes, the majority union in public health, which did not double those initial claims and which continued to fight, and which even called for a strike, succeeded in reaching this professional career, indeed, from which we were blessed even if all the claims that were intended were not reached. Indeed, and we were blessed, even if not all the achievements were achieved, but it was not the intention of the Councillory to make this agreement. Then pull your chest out, he fair, Counselor, the just one. Just like getting an exceptional quadrant and so on was not in the Council's pretensions, not much less, not much less, and it's a small advance. But, of course, I ask you, Counselor, is it: when will the rest of the stolen rights be returned to the workers and workers with the excuse of the crisis? Because you see, in those pay agreements, signed and which were to be implemented between 2008 and 2012 and that the People's Party has been suspended and not implemented, there were issues such as the specific complement, so that these special and specific conditions of health workers and workers are returned, that of attending twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, three hundred sixty-five days a year, and that it turns out that Sergas' staff perceive by that concept a lower amount than the rest of the personnel of the Autonomic Administration. And that's the fault of the crisis? That's because of the lack of political will of the People's Party Government. Why do you keep stealing that right, which they charge less than the rest of the Galician board staff? Don't keep blaming the crisis. It's a lack of political will on the part of your People's Party Government. And you don't have that political will, you have the shame of saying that, well, it's the burden of the empress, it's the guilt of the empress, the continued attention that they continue to deny the workers of the CAP, that they charge 80% of the continued attention, and you have the shame of denying them that right. Do CAP workers work nights and holidays? Yeah, right? Why do they charge 80% of that job when they work 100 percent of that job? Why do they keep denying that payment? Well, I have a word for it, I'll cut myself off. So don't keep blaming the crisis for what is political and ideological positioning on your part. And that wage equalization agreement for the CAP staff, they constantly disregard, that you continue to deny it, when you are in a condition that has been reporting for months and that unfortunately has had the conditions you have. And we could continue to list the issues that are on the table and that you refuse to negotiate and refuse to return those rights. I put a number of questions to you here: will you follow?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u67	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u68	...with this system of day-to-day employment, infamous? After what is collected in the Audit Report of the Board of Auditors on temporality, which states that it continues to be high and that it continues to increase, will they do something about this downgrading of the staff in our country's public health system? Will they end the precariousness, the temporality? Are they going to be re-enacted? Will the rest of the stolen rights be returned to our country's professionals? They are of the questions, Mr. Counsellor, that the BNG and the workers and workers would like him to have been answering, at least some of them. I don't know if you have any paragraphs left of the Dog for reading — I hope you don't — and in the part that remains of the replica I hope you can answer some of the questions I put to you in the first and second speeches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u70	Thank you, President. I think it's important to do some punctuations and I'll try to explain a little more the position of our group, because sometimes it's unclear whether it's understood or not understood; I probably think it's the second. It's been said here that we didn't want to talk about this agreement, which is a great progress. Well, allowing me to have a parenthesis: there's a very nice Italian film called Paradise Cinema -- I'm sure you know it -- where there's a very old film projector that's in very bad condition and what he works with the projector always complains that he's very old; that one day the projector is set on fire for an operating error and all the film is set on fire and the movie is destroyed and, after that, you call him a new projector; you know what the protagonist says about progress? Sometimes progress is always late. And this agreement is late. [[Applause]] Counselor, this is an agreement that you have paralysed to deprotect a part of the system, and now they're partly resonating it by leaving a lot of people out. Retrieve it is better than not to take it back, but it is to take it in part to leave people out. In addition, I understand that it may bother you that we demand that other explanations be given in this Parliament, but the fact is that we also find that there are governments, like the current one, to which this Parliament seems more a pantuffle than a Parliament and it is not necessary. And yes, we talk about eventuality and we think that this was the appearance necessary to talk about eventuality, precariousness, because precariousness is that there are people doing twice as much work as they have to do, precariousness is that there are no substitutes, precariousness is that in CAPs where there are two teams there is one, precariousness is that there is only one team in the Road CAP in August at some weekend and what happened. That's precarious, and that's why we're talking about precariousness. The truth is, it's surprising that the counselor the trouble we're talking about as a precarious thing, but the consequences are there, and what we're defending is that there's a problem of staff in the system, that there's a problem that we have over-enforced staff, that we have staff demanding too much, that we have a staff that is being deceived, because if you're submitting to jobs that don't have to be, that are excessive to their own and to those who are being denied help. And then it happens. And besides, the government's excuses go through sending the blame to the workers: that if they weren't, that they had to go to the other side or that they were wrong, and nobody assumes anything, and the problem of precariousness has the consequences. And that is what we want to bring to these debates. If someone doesn't like it, the best thing we could do is to have the best staff and they'd have fewer things if we had the best staff cared for. So we, if we bring this problem here. Why are there posts of difficult coverage and nothing said? Counsellor, this group has proposed, when you used that excuse to limit services in comarcal hospitals, which it was possible to make other measures, for example primary and award those who held difficult-to-recover posts in matters of internal promotion, with job improvements, even with better wages. For what? To occupy those positions that, according to the Government of the Union at that time argued to reform the Health Act, no one wanted to occupy. Then let's do this. Ah! Now it's a big move, but then it's not. Of course, you used that excuse because you wanted to modify the Health Act, but you didn't want to tell me why. And now you think it's a good measure for you to reject something that they then refused. One criterion, you choose what you want but you have one, because if you don't, it's very difficult; if you have one criterion and tomorrow another, it's more complicated to debate. There aren't a thousand new officials. In Marea's voice put here the accent on something we've been carrying, I think everybody's been highlighting for a long time, and there's not a thousand new five hundred professionals in the system anymore. This is like saying that sometimes in this Parliament there are seventy-five more Members. No, no, no, no. There are seventy-five, they go in seventy-five; some are the same, some are not; there are no seventy-five new, like there are not a thousand five new professionals in the system. I'm going to quote by memory, but in 2009 the budgets — if we don't believe the budgets, it's something else — said the public health system in Galicia had 34,551 professionals, and the year 2017, 34.510, 41 minus. There are no more than a thousand new professionals this year. The counselor said it and Mr. Feijó said it. You're lying. There's not a thousand new five hundred professionals. There is an OPE of a thousand six hundred squares — one thousand six hundred and few — in which they are not all young, others retire and, therefore, there are not a thousand quintuents. Either that or you have to add up, then stay, and you've forgotten to do new operations. But there's no such thing, because if there were them, we'd be failing the replacement rates and we'd be committing an illegality. There's no such thing as lying. Is there an 8% eventuality looking for 5%, Counselor? No, no, no, no. Twenty per cent of Joine's staff is in eventuality, 20 per cent. There are two options: or it's not true that 8% is possible, but it's more than 20%. By the way, the average of the board, not counting health, is 10 %; you duplicate the eventuality of the board. But either we spend 20% on 8% of staff -- that you can explain to me, because then there's a worrying challenge -- or that 20% that we're spending on eventually turns out to be, in some magical process...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u71	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u72	...in 8% with a 5% face. Either it's a lie or it's something more than inefficient. So you have to choose, and I say to you, between incompetence and inefficiency to me, I think it's dangerous to choose. There's not a thousand new quintuples, there's no 8% eventuality, it's not true that we're improving professional conditions, it's not true that we now have an agreement that's new; it's an agreement that was signed a lot higher than the year 2008 and that you paralyze in 2010. And, therefore, is there any progress? Yeah, baby. Is that a reason for celebration? It's not a cause of sadness, but the truth is this system needs something else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u74	And you guys go with turtle crossings, and so the system will never get better, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u75	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u76	Thank you, President. I really appreciate it, Mr. Almuño, that I have given the data of the forty million euros; it's fine, because it never offers any. And I would also like you, by the way, to tell us whether this game is going to exist too to pay those holidays, those supplements that don't pay to the professionals of the continuing attention points, that you take so much effort to sit down and negotiate, and, of course, when they're going to pay back and in which game they're going to put those extra payouts. I remember, they're not paid a hundred percent. You want to talk about this and you don't want to address it in the context of lack of stability within the public health system, because it's rather paradoxical that you talk to us here about stability and quality in employment when exactly the measures they take are rightly referred to the contrary. But given that data, I insist, please!: give us the data on how the professionals of the Galego Health Service are calculated. If we take the data from the IGE, some official data you don't use, it gives me around an average of 7 euros a month. It is clear that it is not an economic average, as you have said, because 7 euros monthly will understand and will take care that it is not therefore not an economic gift of thanks to the work that professionals do. It's certainly a quick rough calculation, because it would depend on the different categories and the different years that professionals have been valued. We would also like you to transfer to us what kind of quality training they will offer to facilitate that score, because you want to talk about the decree. Because it is quite obvious that with that institute, with that ACIS, with that element that we understand should be integrated into public health, there is no guarantee of quality training for all professionals, and, ultimately, on many occasions it depends on those who have the economic capacity to pay according to postgraduates, although today I don't know whether they're engaged or it would be better not to talk about them. Of course, Mr. Almuña, we expect you to transfer us as you calculate that number of professionals. And it has a lot to do with this that you come to announce here today, because, of course, if we have less and less professional fixed and recognition is only for these professionals, they're out of their own increasingly professional recognition within the public health system. And it would be good if you really stabilized your employment with OPE in our public system, and of course they did make appropriate contracts, and we talked about them. You have lost the opportunity — you have another right now — to answer me what is the assessment of that judgment about the obligation to travel these more than a hundred kilometers to residents in Ourense province to cover guards who, in theory, were located, that situation in which professionals are within our public health system. And we say the Board of Auditors, because it seems really appealing to us that you don't take your recommendations, but it could be another one. The figures are there and they give more and more professional potential and less professional holders of a public square. And that should be the subject of your concern. We're glad you came here to explain this agreement, although you didn't really explain anything else that came to the DOG. But, Counselor, let's not be mistaken: this agreement is about the fixed professionals, and you have lost the opportunity to move because you don't recognize the rest of the professionals. And in view of this, I would like you to explain to us whether there will be a retroactive effect. You have some OPEs that go very late, by the way, and it would also be good if you explained to us why in some we just have the bidding decree, why in others there is no summons and why in some places there are not even reserves of squares. But, of course, there are people who take, for example, an interim situation -- let's give an example -- "x" years that may not get to that place right now because they get less notice. Will there be a retroactive effect for the achievement or will there be a choice of these services? Yes or no? I mean, what's gonna happen in years? There is a problem of inequality also within the elements that grant health professionals rights. And it would be good, because you want to talk only about it, that it will move us if there's that element of retroactivity, as soon as we're going to solve the subject of training, which is really poor and insufficient within our public health system, and I'm not talking about a course of a few weeks, obviously speaking of another type of quality training. And, of course, how do you calculate those regular professionals, Mr. Almuña. I miss — and I will finish by now — that this facewash — if I may — we do not regard it as negative, but we say that it is absolutely insufficient, Mr Almuña. And we understand that there are union centers that sign it because they understand that this is better than nothing and others that say that this is embarrassing. It's not their responsibility. The problem is yours, they've been paralyzing the grant of these rights that were already the rights of workers and workers. I'd like you here today to talk about the number of regular professionals, please. Tell us where that calculation comes from and, of course, the rest of the plugins that are paralysed will be removed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Before we continue the debate, we greet the students of the Santiago Apostle Institute in Bos Aires, Argentina. Welcome to Parliament. And now yes, you have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u78	Thank you, President. Mrs. Prado, I insist: between maximums and minimums it negotiates; if that's not negotiation, I don't know what you mean. You certainly do what you do is interpret intentions. You know the counsellor's intentions, the Counsellor's intentions, before he negotiates. Speaking of an excuse for the crisis, that's negationism, eh! You won't tell me there was no crisis. The crisis is an excuse too, and we have a lot to talk about. Of course, that Mr. Torrado, in the party he's in, tells you that there is one criterion today and another morning it's hard to understand. I think Mr. Torrado should call Pedro Sánchez to give him a cure about change. I think it happened with the labour reform, with the taxes, with the bombs, with the termination of the minister, so well, we could be here the three minutes or the five minutes of the intervention talking about the change of criteria of the Government of Madrid of the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] Well, Counsellor, understanding the importance, of what I was talking about before, which has the recognition of the merits and the consideration of the professional curriculum, for professional persons, any recognition, any valuation, any public record of that degree, of that merit, is of great importance, and of course this dedication has to have a remunerative compensation. Of course, all people think we want to improve our economic situation; I think that's not questionable. But in this case, we are pleased that this has to do more with training and assistance and, as I said in the first intervention, it does not limit itself to an old-age payment, it does not replace the trienniums. I really don't know if the amounts you've talked about are sufficient or appropriate or not, but we understand from the Popular Group that acceptance by most unions validates the proposal reflected in the order that develops the career. I think we should think about what happened in Galicia in the last few months. There was a demand from the collective of the staff of Justice absolutely out of any possibility of being assumed by the Council and irresponsibly supported by the opposition groups. After a long strike and a difficult negotiation with most trade union organizations and if workers and workers were consulted, an agreement was reached that placed these people in fair remuneration conditions, above the state average, in their claims. Then another agreement was reached with the teaching professionals and now it's just signed the professional career agreement. I think this shows that it is possible to negotiate and it is possible to reach agreements without giving in to pressure situations by some groups, sometimes with unacceptable claims. Because I think we must also bear in mind that, despite what a current socialist minister once said, public money is everyone's; public money is everyone's, and any negotiation involves public spending. We congratulate you, Counsellor, on the news that Galicia is in the field of professional careers above the average of the autonomous communities and also on the study of the legal amendment that allows inclusion in the career of the interim staff, being one of the first services, as you well said, in this recognition. We also want to highlight the transitional regime to compensate the professionals who stayed in half, who couldn't, because of the crisis, move forward in their careers. The summoning of this procedure in the race through its publication in the CEO turns into reality the demands of the professionals, who, as you have said, were able to present the curriculum of merits through the electronic file, through Fides. And you say it's surprising that there's 3% or 4% of professionals who haven't yet applied for career inclusion. It also seems good to us that they recover the offers of integration into the staff's statutory regime of staff and employment made it to be suspended at a given time. And you talked about figures and data here. I want to repeat them. Twenty-two thousand professionals will reach a further degree of career, with an average salary, an average salary increase of 6%. A total economic amount of around EUR 40 million; it also looks like an important amount in the total budget. More than 20,000 applications submitted, 96 per cent; 3 per cent-4 per cent are missing, as you said; I understand that most of the new applications will be of interim staff — I want to understand. And to complete the process in the second half of next year with a call for ordinary procedures, but with different circumstances, so that two degrees of professional career can actually be achieved in two years. I think the measure compensates, as you well said, enough of the problem that there was to go on with the professional career. Of course, adding this career recovery to the series of rights recovery that has been achieved in Galicia for the improvement of the economic situation, both in wage increases and in working conditions, I think it makes it evident that the situation of all Sergas's staff, which we want to congratulate and thank for the magnificent work they have done in recent years. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u79	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Close this show, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I also want to greet the students of the Apostle James College, who were lucky to meet their facilities and also to receive them in the Baiona Town Hall on one of these travels that they make to know the land of their ancestors. Welcome to Galicia, welcome to Parliament. The truth is, after this time of appearance, what's clear is that we should be doing things right, because we haven't talked practically anything about career, something, as I say, fundamental. And I was saying BNG's spokesman -- I don't know if I should replicate because he's not in the room -- If he comes back, if I'll comment on something, because it's rude to comment when he's not here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] If we say that the Socialist Party always resorts — let us say — to the consequences of its Government, an irresponsible government, of Mr. ZP, with that indiscriminate expenditure that led us to a situation that the People's Party then had to try to recover. And this comes to which sometimes Mr. Torrado speaks more than he hears and does not listen to what I say. And what I'm saying is that the goal that the Montoro Minister set a few months ago was to reach an 8% eventuality target and we said that our target in 2020 is less than 5%. Therefore, it's good that you listen from time to time and let it speak also to learn, which is good to learn. [[Murmurs.]] And, as I say, we're applying the professional career in the best way the autonomous communities are doing it. As I say, there are autonomous communities that are in a longer term and, of course, in no way the interiors, of course, are included in no autonomous community. If we give that possibility of recognition and, of course, if in the five-year period they get the square — for that we are making annual OPE calls — they will certainly have stability and will begin to charge that complement so established. Let's go, as I say, keep working. We are told by the opposition to the conditions of the CAP. We're negotiating. I know that on the side of the opposition at all times they say that we have reached agreements because they force us, not because there is a negotiation period. For in all the agreements that we bring to this House — and this is an example of them — there is obviously a time to negotiate, to reach agreements, and within what is understood as a negotiation there are of course strips and aflogates and there is always a need to give one part to each of the commitments. But it is true that today we have a historical statement, that I certainly do not remember in the time that I have spent, when Mrs Solla says we do not negatively value this agreement. So, I think it's historical and we'll keep going around. Also tell him that extra payments are a responsibility of the State Government, not of the Government of Galician Union. And, of course, we keep moving forward, trying to improve day by day. We know that we have thirty-eight thousand professionals working day by day for all the Greeks to maintain the high level of the Greek health system, but, as in everything, that's why we're certainly supporting innovation, we have to keep improving, and staying in health at rest only leads to failure. We understand, of course, that we, with these magnificent professionals, as I said, are within one of the pillars of the Sergas 2020 Strategy. Professionals are fundamental. We will continue to try to improve all conditions, both labour and public service. But twenty-five thousand professionals, between the twenty-two thousand fixed plus the internals that we calculated they could have these conditions, are going to have an average increase of 6%. For Mrs. Solla too, 6% are crumbs, but I think it's important. But, as I say, the most important career is not economic activity, but recognition of effort, support, collaboration, that involvement in the Greek public health service. So, thank you — as I said at the outset — for of course all the professionals who have been working all these years with a high level in the quality of the Greek health service, also the union representatives, a large majority of them also signed this agreement, and of course also the Sergas Human Resources Directorate, which once again demonstrates the seriousness and full involvement it has in the improvement of the system. Thank you very much. Of course, as I say, we will continue to improve the public system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u81	Thank you, Counselor. After talking to all the groups, with which the groups intervene, it was agreed that we could debate — given that we ended with a relatively good time to do so — a first motion. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the closing of beds and services during the summer months in the hospitals of Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u82	A amendment was tabled by the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u83	To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Solla. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, I spoke to you about this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u84	The councilman made a statement against a member of my parliamentary group insinuating that she was not in the House because she passed from the intervention that was being made in her appearance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u85	I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u86	...when not, but that Mrs Montse Prado went to look for the documents precisely so that she could now facilitate the debate on this first motion by changing the agenda. From BNG we believe that we have the right, too, to safeguard the honour of our honourable Members, to record...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u87	Silence! Quiet, please! Silence! Please, shut up! Silence! Silence! You got it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u88	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u89	Please! [[Applause]] Of course you did, you spoke to me and it became clear that it was. The question is, as you say, there's no other... in any case, it's a matter for the Presidency. ( Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.) No, no, it's hard on me because I've allowed this change, but I've allowed change because I don't think at any time it distorts or causes any problems, quite the opposite. So it's true what you say. In fact, she had to go out and look for a motion she was planning to debate at 4:00 p.m. That's right. Things in their place. Point. Let's go to the motion. You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u90	Thank you, President. In fact, we're all trying to make it easier, even though the debate was going to be four o'clock in the afternoon, precisely because we're done ahead, and sometimes the valuation is different depending on who's making use of the word. Finally, today we are debating this motion, as a result of the interpeleration of the full past which has much to do with the debate we have just given in relation to the precarious work of workers and workers in the Galician Health Service, and of course its impact on the quality of care offered in the public health system itself. In the past interpellation, we were unfortunately not moved to most of the data we claimed here -- a constant that has been quite common in this House. One of the points we also talk about in the morning, in that bill that brought the Socialist Party to debate, which has to do with the waiting lists, is precisely asking for those non-structural waiting lists. I have to remember here — I personally have, but I am sure there are many more Members and Members in this Chamber, mainly the voices and health spokespersons — two years waiting for a request for information to be answered in the course of Article 9, which has a maximum time limit of one month, to obtain Sergas's non-structural waiting lists. We do not comply with the Transparency Act, we do not comply with the Rules of the House, and we continue today without having that information. They will agree with me that the only thing we can say here is that the lists offered are not true, they are absolutely false. There are many hundreds, many thousands, of people waiting for these consultations, for those surgical interventions and for those complementary tests. And this, unfortunately, once again, must be a point of this motion. Another point of the quite obvious motion, which we have been debating for years, and essentially in the last year, is the coverage of the permits of casualties and holidays. It was mentioned at the previous initiative of the quality of work, of respect, of the situation of workers and workers, when it really is a indentation of the increase in workload that is given to them, voluntarily forced. I mean, this is a joke, because, of course, no professional can choose that they have to take over the workload of their colleagues and colleagues, and take care of those people, because they don't cover those permits, those discounts and those vacations, and it should be a fundamental element. It surprises us, moreover, that if you have counted the cost or the game that you will need to take care of your career, and yet you do not have to have a share or account for the need for coverage of these permits. Of course, we also understand that it is essential, and we have been debating for several months now that the need for professionals in the public health system is planned in the medium and long term. The last two plenary sessions — I do not go back behind — the opposition has been proposing various measures essentially in terms of the need for medical professionals, but we could talk about other categories and others and other professionals. They were unanimously rejected by the majority group of the camera, that's yes, without the table of any other kind of planning that goes beyond redistributing pediatricians within the public health system, a measure that is obviously insufficient and that abounds in the inequality of the public health system since the beginning of the cutoff. Of course, we also want the parliamentary groups to be informed about those services that are closed, or that have been closed during the summer months, and what are the criteria. I insist again: there is no uniformity in the criteria applied by the Health Council when closing health services. And that's right, because, as we see, every center varies depending on the year -- this happens every year -- and we haven't been presented with any type of clinical criteria based on objective data, no type of data based on scientific evidence, and of course nothing that regulates or controls why services are closed every year, and there's data to confirm it on the table. Nor do we understand how this year the Council of Galicia assumed that they had closed fewer beds than in previous years, and yet the justification is absolutely the same: to say that they were not necessary and that they would, of course, be used when it was so. It seems dramatic that the justification is the same for when a 86 is closed, for when a 70 is closed, or when a 90 is closed. I mean, it's absolutely incomprehensible and gives the extent to which planning shines in this case by its absence. We simply ask for criteria. I believe that we are already at the minimum levels of parliamentary democracy when we ask for criteria, reports, data, the basics. I don't know what's going to happen in the study committee, in that committee to study cuts, privatizations and, of course, everything that has to do with what happened in the Road CAP and with the sick and sick in Hepatitis C, because I suppose the groups will ask for information. Let's see if we can make it easier on that committee. And of course an important element, that the Galician Union presents a plan for improving primary care with an budget. We've been talking here for years about the Primary Care Improvement Plan, about what existed in the Bipartite. We do not want the same plan to be implemented, we simply want one to be implemented, that meets the current needs of the professionals who have to equip the Galician Union, the cuts and depreciations of squares in recent years, and, of course, the social and economic variability of our country, and the need to provide elements that give equity within the system. There is no plan for primary care. It was more than 1,000 professionals who were lost, and I insist, because it was not answered, perhaps the spokesperson of the People's Party has here the interpretation of that formula, which we don't know how it is calculated, to know what the professionals are and how many within the public health system are, because there are official data there, but everyone interprets them in a way, this seems to be Schrödinger's experiment, that everyone sees the subject as it seems. The reality is we don't have any sort of information that is minimally coherent, official and data based on scientific evidence in this case, and that's part of what we ask you today with this motion. You will understand the lordships of the People's Party and the rest of the House that we are already in those minimums. He spoke to the Health Counsellor, just a few minutes ago, of that need to assess professionals and professionals, and we would also like to know how they valued those forced retirements that were given in the past years — they have a lot to do with what we are asking for in this motion — and how they value it — we told him in the question of the past full— that around 11% of the internal physicians and the internal and resident doctors who are formed each year go away because they have no future here. And I insist again, that's one example, but that sentence is there to confirm the precariousness of work within our public health system. They will certainly not vote in favour of this initiative. We'd be surprised, actually, that it was. This would be a historical fact, and not that we say it's not a negative measure to professional career. We would also like to be explained how they will cover or what is the planning they have -- in the case of primary care, but in the case of the public health system in general -- in relation to those expected retirements that have already been indicated by the different medical schools, of course by the union centers, and by the House groups. In short, there is a commitment from here for Members and Members to have enough information to request adequate health planning in our public health system. In relation to — it has ended, which I don't understand, with the beds closed during the summer months and the cuts — we said in the previous plenary and today I also wanted to make an impact — it is, of course, something we don't understand why even though in the months of July and August — you can search the hemerotheque, within the various media— there were warnings of saturation of emergency services, not many of the units that were closed and many of the beds that were closed were opened. We don't know why the Union is still maintaining the same policy. And I would like to remind you that another rather serious subject is still under investigation, which will probably be quite echoed in that investigation commission, which is the death of that patient in the emergency corridor of the University Hospital Complex of Santiago de Compostela. It is being instructed and we will certainly have to talk about it in this committee too. I'm saying this because there were 112 beds closed this summer, and despite that, there was news -- I insist, they're in the hemerotheca -- of punctual peaks and saturation of emergency services, which has been a complaint from professionals since last year -- a complaint from a decade but more insistent in the past year -- and this will see how no measure had been taken. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking — I have already said — such basic aspects as the fact that information was given to this House, once again, and, of course, that there is some plan that we can evaluate. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u91	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. By the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, you have the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u92	Thank you, President. It was a pity that I had lost the only exit of the advisor's script in all his intervention; that I had taken advantage of my absence to get out of the script he was bringing in; a real pity! [[Applause]] Indeed, the debate on this motion presented in Marea has much to do with the two previous debates we have had on health this morning. It has a lot to do with the legal architecture that the People's Party has built to cover its ideological project with regard to public health in our country, and within that, the Law of Guarantees and the amendment of the Health Act to provide coverage and ideological construct and convert public health into business for power, for those who host it, to the owners of capital, and it has to do with the cutting of material assets and, above all, human resources, so fundamental to quality public health, and the combination of those elements and the cutting of those elements as they give poor public health quality. Indeed, with the initiative — the motion derived from the previous plenary question — we agree on many of the points of this resolution in Marea; we have already touched on many of them and we will continue to focus on them. A few months ago we also brought the debate to this House a bill for improving primary care, and we agreed precisely on this, we wanted to focus on the need to provide resources for primary care, essentially, such as that entry door without which the rest of the system feels especially, providing it with staff and essential equipment. Just like the need for planning, and in a special way the subject of the Guarantee Law, with which, of course, we agree. We've just made an amendment for an aspect that's a continuing concern for the BNG, and it's that strategy of the People's Party to exploit every summer the closure of beds, devices, so, after the summer, to leave a part of them without putting them back into operation. So, every summer they close a number of beds, every summer a larger number, and then, at the end of the summer, we first find ourselves... we can set up as an example the Salnés Hospital, where there's a third plant that closes during the summer, and then, until it's already in a situation of total collapse, they don't open that third floor. Or we can talk about the CHUAC, Abente and Lago case... we can go all over the country. Or there's a percentage that hasn't just opened, and there's a gradual reduction in beds. And if it wasn't for Sergas' opacity, it didn't provide data, because we found ourselves in the continuous reduction of beds in our country. That's why we are presenting the amendment in that sense: that on October 1 every device that was closed during the summer, with the personnel needed to be able to handle them. And on the other side of the amendment, what we're proposing is that no sick person turns to private health as long as there are devices in Sergas where these patients can be treated in public health, because it's indecent that surgeons are closed, that beds are closed, that they are not hired personally in public health, as long as they are doing interventions, diagnostic tests and so on in private health. Obviously, we are going to vote in favour of the initiative even if the amendment is not accepted, but it seems to us to strengthen it, and it is a constant practice and it continues on the part of the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. You have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u94	Thank you, President. We're going to support this motion, but some valuation we want to make. It is true that PP has been a little nervous about health lately, has lost some of the papers at the end of the appearance, and there has been some personal appeal a little complicated. I want to mention two. There is one that is very curious, which is to mention my affiliation with the Socialist Party in terms of health with a lack of discretion. General Health Act, which implements public health in Spain in 1976, Public Health Act of Galicia in 2008, the two promoted by the Socialist Party and the two with a vote against the People's Party. [[Applause]] I say that when you talk about lack of criteria and you go up here to defend public health on the part of the People's Party, at least, you don't talk about it, at least at the very least! Second, and I'm just going to mention it, I listened to the counselor — please correct me if I don't — "You, Mr. Torado, should shut up and listen, see if you learn that way." He's right. Humility, I'm not going to learn much from those innuendos, but you're right. Let's see if we can learn. The truth is, to learn from their interventions, the best thing is to show up more and not to see your appearances. But at last. [[Applause]] This is the question, this is the debate. We bring, we make some proposals, and they tell us: to see if they're quiet and learn a little. Good. On the motion, we are going to support the initiative here, I believe it has to do with questions that have been debated on numerous occasions and that, in addition, they are asking questions, as always, very revolutionary and absolutely incredible, how to ask for information and how to be able to make a debate on the coverage of the squares in the system. It's quite rare, probably no country in the world is talking about coverage of medical squares or forecast data. It's modern democracy, and we're not ready to talk about information yet. The truth is that we have to take it this way, because we have a counselor who systematically denies information; who says that he handles reports to make decisions but does not make it easier for Parliament; who includes in the laws that Parliament should know reports in the first quarter of each year, but then comes here and does not give them, denies them and does not facilitate any data. The truth is that this must be the effectiveness, that of doing more with less, or something similar. The truth is, if there's a problem, there's a coverage problem in primary care, there's a coverage problem especially in the CAP, as well as mentioned in the motion. There's a problem with the lack of information, and there's a problem with the waiting lists. No one on the part of the People's Party or the Government mentioned anything about the appeal we made here that the Consultative Council itself mentions serious changes in the counting of waiting lists, and the Board of Auditors mentions serious opacity in the evaluation of the budgets of the Board. Here's the magical increase of personnel in the health system, but if there are 38,000 people in the health system and they budget 35,500, are the other 2,500 living in the air? Because they have budgeted 35,500, and if they say there's 38,000, I know I have to learn a lot, but with another -- with calculator, which I don't think, which I already know you don't consider me -- 2,500 are living in the air. So there's a problem, or they're not paying them, or it's a lie. I insist, the truth is, we find ourselves today with several dangerous dichotomys, and I don't know which one is worse. The truth is, we're in a problem situation. I well know that the People's Party is concerned about health, because for once it is possible — it is still to see — that it has to give some explanation, it is possible but it is still to see, even though the People's Party is able to find many shortcuts to not have to give any explanation. It is never — and it is a recommendation for all Members of the House — to underestimate the capacity of the People's Party to refrain from discussing things, that capacity must be recognised. Especially about what it has to do with public services, and especially about what it has to do with its own management. It's much better to come here to say you can't talk about people who aren't in the room, but systematically dump against Touriño, Pedro Sánchez, I don't know who serves and I don't know what. [[Applause]] But don't worry, don't worry that we don't have that position. It seems to us that we have to debate politics and that Parliament — and I know it sounds revolutionary — is very good to debate politics. Even questions such as those raised in this motion, which is to support motions that work and make decisions — which we have often proposed for a collective agreement — about replacements in summer, about closing beds and about what level of exigencies we have with the system at times when staff, of course, have to have their vacations available. We believe it is necessary to have a chance to agree, but it is impossible when there is absolute negationism and when the People's Party, in fact, what comes to this House is trying to escape the debates. It's very difficult, when someone tries to escape the debates, to be able to debate. But still, we'll learn something. The counselor has already said it: listen more, and so you can learn something. And something we'll learn, what's not clear is that what we can learn is either good or bad, but in any case, we'll learn something. So for now, we're going to stand up for being constructive and trying to support the motions that brought things like this here, so we give you our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u95	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u96	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. I will begin my intervention by giving some data already mentioned in this House, but that can sometimes be forgotten. The percentage of the health budget is the highest in the history of this autonomous community, more than 40%. There are 1,544 more professionals in the year 2017 than in 2009, and our community now has 7% more family doctors working in primary care. Today there are 37% more surgeons than in 2008, and the waiting lists are kept in their historical minimums. Mrs. Rodil, I also wanted to tell you not to twist things and not to manipulate them, because the counselor said here that she wasn't going to address her companion because she wasn't in the Chamber at the time. This is recorded. [[Murmurs.]] There's no question, it's taped, and I invite you to listen to it. Now, as you all know, Sergas plans each year to adapt his assistance resources in the summer period, given that in this period there is a decrease in the demand for care that is motivated by various factors, including, that there is a decrease in certain pathologies, such as respiratory pathologies, and that in addition to this period, as has already been said in this House, professional vacations are also scheduled. But the resources are kept operational and adapted to the reality of each moment, and this does not prevent the attendance in Galicia from being as good during these summer months as in the rest of the year. It is important to note that hospital beds are all available, according to patients' hospitalization needs. Sergas carries out a planning, as it could not be otherwise, on which will be the expected occupation of beds during the summer season, both for medical income and for surgical activity. This planning is based on frequency in different hospital areas, and in each specific health area, in similar periods of previous years. Moreover, as an operational reinforcement measure in view of the possibility of exceptional and unpredictable situations, in hospital centres there is a contingency plan that allows the necessary measures to be adopted in an agile manner for the adequacy of assistance resources, and we all remember what happened this summer in the Marisquiño in Vigo, where the operation was prepared and operated with all normality. The percentage of working beds this summer was 88%, with an increase of approximately 13% compared to the previous year. Health and care needs must be borne in mind that they are dynamic processes. Absences of staff are covered whenever the care demand so requires, in order to ensure the health of the citizen; and the management of absences and the planning of substitutions are carried out taking into account the care demand of each moment. A hundred percent of the absences are required, depending on the needs of each centre. Mrs. Solla, you're talking about improvement in working conditions, but you're forgetting the annual OPE, the stability plan to reduce the rate of timeliness, the new contract of recruitment, the open and permanent transfer contest, the professional career, what we've been talking about here this morning. Just to remember, look, OPE, 6,133 squares convened between 2009 and 2017. The 2017 OP, the total number of squares that form part of this OP, is 1,616; of them, 820 the regular rate of replacement of troops and 796 the additional rate for temporary employment stabilization. As for family medicine, the government of the PP is fundamental because primary care is the worst of our health system. There are 241 more established professional squares. You know that the exams for this category of family medicine will take place on November 24 and 25. He's talking about pediatrics. We've talked about it many times before. There isn't. There's an offer from the Galician Board to hire pediatricians immediately, but it's a problem we have, there's no problem. The waiting lists have already been discussed here this morning. It's published every six months, it's on the web, it's transparent. I'm not giving data because it won't give me time. As for the demands of the CAP professionals, you already know that four technical committee meetings have been held and that in this negotiating framework this is where purely labour and technical issues will be dealt with. And I have to finish my speech by recalling a news recently published in Medical Writing, which refers to Bloomberg's annual report, in which it is reported that Spain maintains its third post at the world level for a third year as the best health system in the world, only behind Hong Kong and Singapore, being the most efficient system in all of Europe. Bloomberg is a company in New York City and the People's Party has nothing to do with what he publishes. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Author group of the motion, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u98	Thank you, President. In the past, it seems unusual to have to answer from here the comments to the Rules of Procedure which a Member may make. The truth is, we should ask ourselves why the Health Counsellor isn't here to defend himself, either, is he? But let's get to the point. I understand that the People's Party will be asking for a point of vote to be able to vote in favour of providing the information requested on this initiative, because, once again, it is an absolutely empty speech, without offering any data on how the needs are calculated. The same hollow and totally insufficient response that the Health Council gave to our group in writing; a response that does not transfer as calculated these criteria. If you defend — and let's go to concrete — that the need for beds is calculated according to the demand for care, and you assume that this year there are more open beds, how did you calculate that the demand would be increased this summer over the previous years? They didn't calculate it, they don't have any kind of objective criteria or data. I asked for clinical criteria, I asked for contrastable data. Why do they close different services every year in public hospitals? What do you obey that element? Can you tell us which specialists can't be covered because there isn't, and what if they can be covered and, in spite of that, they shut down their services? Why can you close in summer a service how can it be a unit of infants? Is there less assistance demand? Why do parturient women in many cases have to share unity with other gynecological problems during the summer months? Why? You just usually refer to problems related to pneumology, but they don't give any data on that aspect. They tell us why, according to the IGE data, there are 9,000 fewer beds since the year 2008. Between 2008-2016 we lost 9,000 beds. It's in the data from the Galego Institute of Statistics. And I have to regret that I don't have time to move... all of the things that have been said here are false, including waiting lists. If they want us to know what they are, they provide the data we ask for in this motion. I must move that I deeply regret that this Parliament is going to organize a few days, the next Thursday and Friday, in which it is invited precisely to elements with genuine participation in the privatization of public health. It is a joke that the management of Metronic comes to this Parliament to talk about public health, when he has been hiding relevant data from this House that has been requested. I sincerely regret that as a Member of this House. I wanted to say it and move it in this gallery too, because it seems little less than a joke that these people are showing up in this House and that they organize themselves behind the backs of the other parliamentary groups—of course, at least the rest of us who are part of the Bureau—a few such days as they are going to do this week.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. About the amendment? Do you accept the amendment? [[Murmurs.]] About the days, an explanation. This is not the first time they've been in Parliament, we've been celebrating these days for years. In Parliament, zero costs, the newspapers are free. They are celebrated in all state parliaments, all of them. No, no, I'm answering because she answered. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] She evidently goes to me, and then I'm answering about these days. I believe that there is already an answer to a requirement she makes me. I'll tell you personally, but I'll tell you now. We suspended the session until 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u100	We resumed the session. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the management of CRTVG
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u101	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández, through her spokesperson and in the light of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendments to this motion.Amendment of amendment.The text of the motion should be replaced by the following:"Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to adopt the following measures:1. To address the Board of Directors of CRTVG to approve, urgently, the Professional Statute and the Information Council as set out in Law 9/2011 on Public Audiovisual Media in Galicia.2. Parliament agrees to open a process of dialogue between parliamentary groups to renew the Directorate-General in accordance with the procedure of election available to Law 9/2011, of public media for audiovisual communication in Galicia.3. Put into operation "effective regulatory tools to enable the final eradication of political interference in journalistic work".4. To comply with Community Directive 2010/13 on audiovisual communication services and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.5. To address the Board of Directors of CRTVG to develop an equal opportunity plan for the prevention and intervention protocol against sexual and sex harassment, and to forward it to the Galician Parliament.6. To develop, through the General Secretariat of Equality, training and awareness-raising actions directed at journalists and media, public and private, to implement the provisions of Chapter III, Equal Opportunities and Media, of Decree 2/2015, published in OJ No. 32, 17 February 2016."Additional amendment.You must add, after point 6 of the motion's resolution, a new point: "7. Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to forward to Parliament, within a maximum of two months, the draft law regulating or entrusting the functions of the audiovisual authority, as set out in the fifth final provision of Law 9/2011."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u102	Mrs. Cuña has the floor for her defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. We bring here a very important motion from our point of view with respect to CRTVG. Citizenship owns the media and has the right of the Government to act in the interests of dignity, plurality and equality. CRTVG's mission is to inform, entertain and train as well, and train as well. And he can only fulfill it from impartiality and from truthfulness. We urge the Union to develop a coherent policy and in accordance with the current legislation, and we call upon the Council of Galicia to adopt the following measures: First, to create an information council to comply with Law 9/2011, dated 9 November, with public media broadcasting in Galicia. The advice is necessary; it is necessary as a counterweight to the interference of governments in the information processing. In an ideal situation, in the media, political change would not be noticed, as in countries such as England and Germany. To fight for the creation of an own information board, bringing to society the importance of having independent public media as part of the process of building a true democracy. Secondly, to dignify work and the media is the great demand of all the workers and workers and many of the groups that we are on this camera. We must establish the appropriate mechanisms for electing the Director of the CRTVG to be replaced by a person endorsed by all or by a party, as set out in the law, of Parliament's groups. Sánchez Izquierdo is responsible for the hundreds of cases of manipulation and silence of information on Galician Public Radio and Television. Yes, there are cases of manipulation. They can deny it, as in tango: They will say everything is a lie / They will say nothing is true / And to the world nothing matters / Turn. No, in this case the world cares a lot, and there are cases of manipulation and censorship in a context of regression of freedom of expression. All we have to do — I insist — is how the crowds who expressed, in legitimate demonstrations, the feeling of an immense part of citizenship were dealt with in many news. All we have to do is look at the informative treatment of health, education manifestations, demonstrations on pensions, 8-M, Touro mine, fires, the Predation Law... we just have to look at it to check it out. There are many, many, many examples of lack of information hygiene since we've been here, many and very alarming. We can quote some quickly. Since it is denied, to show seven buttons: June 2016: the conspiracy of Minister Jorge Fernández Díaz, Minister of Interior in functions, who conspires with the head of the Catalan Anti-Fraud Office to make scandals. Check this new one. April 3, 2017: a professional, Luis Quintas, denounces that critical statements were deleted with the Galician Union. July 2017: Rajoy at the trial. Look, come over and see. September 5, 2017: see if there's manipulation or not, because the bonding of a PP militant arrested in Melilla, close to Shihadism, disappears. October 6, 2017: we didn't have a fire strike on TV until night. May 7, 2018: Gürtel. At Gürtel we talked about two weeks ago, and the coverage was really curious: the instructions denounced by the outstanding workers were delimiting. Whether it was demarcated or not? What we do know is that seventy-six seconds he took up the information on the judgment. Nothing was said of Paul Crespo — how curious!, what chance!—because Paul Crespo was PP's number three in Galicia. There were no direct ones with the correspondents either. July 8th, 2018: The protest against the Touro mine is hidden. Well, these are graphical examples of manipulation. Thirdly, to put in place effective policy tools to enable the final eradication of political interference in journalistic work. The interference, ladies and gentlemen, is unacceptable. Workers and workers are not the communication cabinet of any government, no matter what color they are; they are neither loudspeakers of the messages of the People's Party, because they are not monks, because they are neither in the hands of any party. The workers demand — rightly and legitimately — that they immediately complete these practices, because, in addition to violating essential rights, they distance them from society, precisely because of the round loss of credibility. The fourth point is to comply with Community Directive 2010/13 on audiovisual services and communication, and with the European Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights, which is binding on us. It is also urgent to draw up an equality plan that includes action protocols in cases of sexual harassment — there have been several — and that guarantees equal opportunities. Between June and July, a group of German journalists was created to integrate the feminist perspective into journalism. In Marea you applaud this initiative because it is in line with our idea that we must feminize society, we must feminize politics, and of course we must also feminize the public media. Elaborating the self-regulation code that we demand so much is an obligation, but what is the code? I insist: oocode? We can't find him, he doesn't exist. Or if it exists? Here Vice President Rueda said there was. In the committee, the Director of CRTVG stated that he existed. Ulo? Oocode? Let them bring us in. I insist: we think it's a big lie, but, well, that's why we also insist on applying good journalism practices and the principles of journalism, as it stands by law. What exists is legislation: there are protocols, there are tools to fight these phenomena. Sexual harassment of women is not acceptable in any sector. It is necessary to apply the laws to combat the problem, and CRTVG has an obligation to implement the ethical code not only in the Corporation, but also in contracts subject to public grant. Do you think you respect dignity? I'm going to put an example of an outrage for us — it's just a joke for you — an example of the petty self-promotion of the Land Rober program — specifying that we have nothing against the program, but if this promotion, in which your presenter announces the turn of the program to the TVG screen and, in a humorous key, tries to convince the audience that it's better to see Land Rober than to catch an old girl. It's fun, isn't it? Well, guess you can hit the old ones. It presupposes, deverts and minimizes the severity of violent and macho attitudes. This is entrepreneurial. By the way, speaking of feminism: a ruling just came out of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia which speaks of the malicious behavior of the administration and the Corporation in respect of strike rights. We're referring to March 8th. We also adhered from En Marea to the demands of the Intercenter Committee, which was endorsed by the signature of five hundred and sixty-two professionals to file the irrational file applied to journalist Tati Moyano. And, of course, there is public rehabilitation of journalist and rejection of irrational reprisals. To finish, I think that if you think deeply about the issues of dignity, the issues that cover us all, above the towering politicians, it will be hard to understand that they support the non-compliance of the law. We'll see how the other interventions happen, and in my last speech, of course, I'll talk about the amendments proposed by the Galician Nationalist Block. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u105	Good afternoon to all and to all. I would like to take this opportunity, before I begin to explain a little slowly how much — I also know — is amended by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, to remind you that today the Spanish Ministry of Culture has just recognised the trajectory, the work and the contribution to the Greek journalism of one of the great journalists of Radio Galga, Ana Romaní, who has just awarded the State Prize for Cultural Journalism 2018. We believe that in a moment and context like what we find today, with the merit and recognition that has one of the fundamental figures of cultural journalism and, I would say, of journalism in the broad sense of our country, this award has a great welcome. And they go to congratulations, at least, on the name of the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, for Ana Romaní, now that the Cultural Diary is completely diluted in the midst of generalist information on the gaga radio grid. [[Applause]] As we come to this issue, today's motion for a Parliamentary Group of En Marea, since the BNG, we agree with the initiatives being put forward. We have repeatedly denounced, both in the CRTVG Control Commission and in this plenary, just fifteen days ago, the intentional violation of the Law 9/2011, of public audiovisual media in Galicia. That's why we defended in this chamber 15 days ago the reprobation of the director general as the summit of that direction that keeps — from our point of view — the kidnapping of the public media. The amendment we tabled aims to add a number of questions — I will now explain them — which have more to do with the way in which we share absolutely from the BNG. With regard to the creation of the information board, we add in our amendment the approval of professional status, as it appears collected in the law — which is not a minor thing — which must put in writing what are the rights and obligations, in the development of its professional role and work, of CRTVG's staff. It's a competition that corresponds to the Corporation's Board of Directors, not the Galician Board of Directors. And we understand that it must be so and therefore approved — as the law itself indicates before — in a dialogueal manner, in a negotiated manner and in a debate with the representation of the social part, with the union representation of the workers and workers of CRTVG. This has been happening for seven years; there is an intentional violation of the law and it can not pass a single day more than it is maintained. That's how he claims, in addition, in that mobilization, which has been three months now, of the black Fridays and the staff. With regard to the election by two thirds in the first vote of the Directorate-General, which is what he says and also establishes this Media Act of 2011, it is an order of the legislative power. It is up to the Galician Parliament, never to the Union, never to the Government, which is exactly what is happening now. It's one of the central complaints from the staff. Mr Sánchez Izquierdo — they will remember all the people who are here — was appointed finger in 2009 and, after the entry into force of the Media Law in 2011, was extended sine díe through a law of accompaniment of budgets. We suppose, from the Galego Nationalist Block, every time we saw in the last few weeks how the People's Party in Madrid was torn off their clothes because it considered a democratic fraud and a sub-refugee to use the amendment to a law to change anything else that had to do with its content, that the People's Party will agree, here in Galicia, that the CEO of CRTVG cannot go on a single day more in charge in a situation of law fraud. I insist: extended sine says through a law of accompaniment of budgets, which has nothing to do with the exercise of the Corporation. Our proposal, in that sense, is for the House to open with all political forces a process of dialogue to address this issue, to adjust the legislative framework that has been in force in our country since 2011 the choice of that general direction. And we have added — I don't have any more time left — as an amendment to add rather than an amendment, a specific question that has to do with the competences of the Galician Union and the development of that Media Law, and for what we have been waiting for since it came into force in 2011, which is the creation of the audiovisual authority. It appears collected in the last fifth provision, where it states that the Galician Board had, within nine months since the entry into force of that Media Law, to bring to this chamber a bill that regulates or entrusts the functions of the audiovisual authority. That's not a small thing either, because we're talking about an element of external, independent and professional control that has to do also a task of monitoring and ensuring compliance with CRTVG's public service mission. Let's hope that our approach will be taken into account and, for my part, nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u107	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The Socialist Parliamentary Group today also wants, firstly, to bless journalist Ana Romaní for this National Prize for Cultural Journalism which has just been awarded — we know him today — the Ministry of Culture. It is clear that while some bury culture and bury the Cultural Diary, others press, and we bless the work of this great professional. [[Applause]] We don't want public media directed by the government. This government will never lead the public. That's what you said in... Don't be apologizing, who comes in the Journal of Sessions. [[Murmurs.]] That's what the Vice President of the Board said here in the inquiry by which this motion is being put into effect today. Of course, it's funny; well, curious... I'd rather say we already knew the interpretation skills of the Vice President of the Board, but his intervention the other day is worthy at least of a Master Mateo prize. It would be good because, besides, it also relates a little bit more to the world of culture, which has it quite isolated, and so it goes to the celebration of these awards as well. And I'm saying it's funny because all of this happens while the General Secretariat of the Middle Ages of Galicia -- let's name it and names it because it's important -- it's acting... I don't know if you remember, ladies and gentlemen, Mary Carmen and her dolls. For the Galician Board, the Government of Galicia thinks that the great professionals, in particular, the presenters and the presenters of the television and public radio in Galicia are dolls that can be indicated at every moment what they have to say. And they are not, as I said, great professionals who have been fighting for months against the manipulation of information and against this lack of plurality and independence of the public in this autonomous community. Something that should be normal, plurality and independence, in a mature democratic state like this. That's why Alfonso Hermida and Tati Moyano resigned, I will not tire of saying so in this gallery. It's more: this journalist is chasing after an act of the Spanish Association against Cancer and, in front of the president of the Galician Union, explaining what's happening at CRTVG. She's being pursued with that disciplinary record that's still under way. Well, it's just that the acting skills of Vice President of the Board were still the most, because he came to say that there were purges on Radio and Spanish Television — yes, yes! — and questioning why RTVE workers didn't dress black — he said in his intervention — despite these purges. I don't know if what you were referring to was the purge of Mr. Cárdenas. What did exactly the previous address was try to shield a person who had a salary of 200 thousand euros a week with a contract of, instead of four programs, one percent fifty thousand euros. And all this with a Spanish Radio and Television full of great professionals that you've hidden, that you've covered in recent years. And all this after your Information Services Director purges -- yes, purges -- forty-seven of forty-nine charges in the information area upon arrival. You must have a face, ladies and gentlemen. But what was left after the September 8 mobilisations and those black Fridays that still go on? What did CRTVG do to these complaints? Well, then send an internal circular of coexistence dynamics, order and clean up in digital writing. Among other measures, it includes not hanging on calendar walls, photos, posters or decoration elements that were not previously approved. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez shows a document to the House.]] Of course, tell me what you're assuming... that cooperation with CRTVG's workers and workers, order in decision-making and cleaning and polishing against information manipulation is just what this director and this board of directors of CRTVG is missing. Director who, right now, we continue to repeat it in every intervention, only relies on the support of the People's Party, because it has been rejected. [[Applause]] As Mrs Rodil said, we agree with this initiative, but we must look at the field of competence, and it is clear that the Council of Galicia cannot directly urge compliance, to approve the professional status and the briefing board. It has to be done through the Board of Directors. Also this equal opportunity plan between men and women. And I tell them they don't invest time in weaving, in sheets or anything. He was already, he was from the previous direction, he was from the evil one, from the Bipartite, but he's in a drawer. So take it out, because in the light of what happened today and of that judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which condemns for trying to blow up the 8M feminist strike, it is clear that they do need it. It's likely that, as it happens on other occasions, the popular party's voicer is now talking to us about audience rates. But, of course, audience indices are interpreted as polls: each one makes the interpretation that suits him best. I want to leave you here a question on the ground, I don't know if to answer me today, or another day, or when you agree: is a high audience rate directly proportional to plurality and information independence?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u108	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u109	I'm asking you that. And I ask you another second question: do you mean then that the People's Party says that on TV3, which is a channel that you see a lot in Catalonia, there's no information manipulation because it's a very visible channel? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u111	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The truth is, it's always a pleasure to come here and talk about the Galician Radio and Television Corporation, that television that is most seen by the Greeks, that most valued by the Greeks and the most identified they feel. And precisely because of that valuation and that identification is why one, as a Welshman, feels at least surprised, and it seems to you a shame that every time opposition groups bring here something about CRTVG -- and you see that they do it sometimes -- it's always to expose it, to criticize it and even to despise it, gentlemen. But in addition to all those criticisms that they always do, today they've surpassed themselves. Because what you're proposing today, Mrs. Cuña, besides contradictory and impossible, is illegal, as your colleagues in other groups have already told you. They continually complain that the Government, in your opinion, is what you have to say on the Galician Radio and Television, because Radio and Television are the Government's voice. And today exactly bring us here a proposal to be the Government of the United States what it tells the workers and the workers of CRTVG what they have to do. But what madness is this, Mrs. Cuña? Please, a little serious! Of course, once again, you betray the subconscious. And I told you 15 days ago, a month ago, two years ago, three years ago, Galicia has a law that proclaims the independence of the public media, a law that, as much as it weighs them, if they're doing it. And that's exactly what bothers you. Because where you feel comfortable is in driving and manipulation. That's where you feel comfortable. They demonstrated their control over the public media during the Bipartite, where up to twelve times they had to draw attention to them from the Electoral Unit. [[Applause]] To the current team, zero times. They're showing it and they're showing it in Madrid too. I'm very sorry, Mrs. Blanco, but it is. That purge, indeed, that purge: a hundred workers in just over two months have been put off. [[Murmurs.]] I recommend that you read today the article published by a journalist of recognized national prestige, where he speaks precisely about what the Spanish television workers are doing at this time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u112	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u113	All right, all right! Maybe who you have to talk to is Mrs. Susana Díaz. Ask the South Canal workers what they're doing there, too. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, what I really think is that under the fallacy of that manipulation charge you bring here always, what happens to you is that what you would like most...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u114	Silence, Mr. Sánchez! Then you say you bother in the room, but you don't bother anyone. Quiet. [[Mr Sánchez García and Mr President pronounce words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u115	He said that under that fallacy of manipulation that you always agree with, one begins to think that what is really hiding is that concern that the Greeks and the Greeks know what is going on in Galicia: that this citizenship of what you were talking about, Mrs. Cuña, knows that Galicia has just achieved a historical record of exports; that in Galicia the ratio of coverage of children's schools is eight points above that recommended by the European Union; that Galicia now serves four times more dependent than in the Bipartite; that in Galicia a thousand young men have been incorporated into the agri in the last two years; that in Galicia the returnees who came last year are the double that in 2009 ; that Galicia, among other things, is pioneer in the conciliation resources in the rural environment through the children's houses and the older houses. [[Murmurs.]] And so we could go on. Why does it bother them that Galicia is doing well? Why does it bother you that Galician TV is okay? Why is it bothering them to have the information on the Galician TV most seen? Today you and we rejoice here and congratulate Ana Romaní on the prize she has just won. That prize that she has just achieved throughout her trajectory, made a good part of it within a Greek media, which, I say, would let her work freely, when she made possible that prize of what we all rejoice at, because it is a great professional who deserved that prize. [[Applause]] Anyway, I'm running out of time. I just want to tell you that the proposal you bring here in Marea is antidemocratic. That would be enough not to vote for her, but that's what the BNG told her, who corrected her requests by directing them where to direct them. But, of course, both of them are wrong in the content of those requests. It doesn't give me time, but today we've already told them the previous time that all this is asking if it's going to happen. There's one thing you don't, by the way. This directive that you say is being complied with, Community Directive 2010/13. It's just that he's going to get rid of it! It is now being approved by another in the European Commission. By the way, today is also the CRTVG Equality Commission, and there is already the protocol for equality and harassment. [[Balbordo.]] Anyway, you, Mrs. Cuña, came here to talk about a lot of supposed manipulations. But don't you realize that you lost all credibility in the previous session, when you said here publicly, that you didn't care if Gürtel was dedicated to you for 40 seconds only five minutes?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u117	What mattered to you was to bring this matter out here! Because that's all you care about: looking for headlines here. And really, with us for that it doesn't contain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u118	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u119	...because what you're doing here all the time, bringing recurring issues without any travel, it's just not defending CRTVG workers, not defending Galician television, not defending Galician media and not defending the public media. Because manipulating and echoing false news all you can is losing credibility. It doesn't contain with us for that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u120	Thank you, Mrs Arias. Motion author group, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u121	Well, what a low political level there has to be to... let me finish, please, before they end up don't hide. [[Balbordo.]] Calm down, huh? Little political level, I mean, to give an answer saying it's crazy. I'm not going to go in there, because it seems to be inappropriate for a parliament. [[Applause]] Mrs. Raquel Arias, for contempt, yours, who don't sit down and talk to the workers. Mrs. Arias, for lack of listening, yours, that comes out with other issues that we haven't addressed. His triumphalism is quite inappropriate right now. We're defending law enforcement. And, of course, we accept the amendment of the Block, because it improves some of the issues formally, as Mrs Olalla Rodil has well said. I, before time runs out, will focus on the important thing. And the important thing is seven points about which your answer has absolutely no reason to be, it's only based on disqualifications and, of course, without arguments. I only agree with one thing he said -- which is already a lot! -- and it is that Ana Romaní deserves this prize; she deserves it and counts with the support of all society and all of the Greek culture. Besides, she shares it with the whole of society and with the whole of Greek culture. That's where we agree. But it's paradoxical that today they give him the prize, and there are four TV stations that supply him with an international prestigious program. But, well, for reflection. With regard to the amendment, it is accepted and will remain as follows: First: To address the Board of Directors of CRTVG to approve, urgently, the professional status and the information board — which is in the law, that you have not put it on foot and that absolutely guarantees people's demands — to comply with what marks Law 9/2011. Second: To establish — and this is something that we can modify, and we will trade with the four groups or whatever they want — the mechanisms of choice of the director. It is said in the law that it must be endorsed by at least two thirds of Parliament — fifty seats — or if it is not achieved at least three fifths — forty-five —. Well, we can leave the text in which Parliament agrees to open a process of dialogue between the groups to renew the general direction in accordance with the choice procedure provided for by Law 9/2011, of the public media. The general management has responsibilities. The accusations are not delusional, they are not inventions; they are real and there are examples. Third: To put into operation — this remains as set out in the motion — effective policy tools to enable the final eradication of political interference in journalistic work — real interference. Four: To comply with the Community Directive on audiovisual communication services and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Five: To address the Board of Directors of CRTVG to develop, urgently, the equal opportunity plan for prevention and intervention protocols against sexual harassment and sex reasons, and to forward it to the Galician Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u122	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u123	Sixth: To develop, through the General Secretariat for Equality, training and awareness-raising actions directed at public and private journalists and media, for the implementation of Chapter III, equal opportunities and means. And that of adding, which is the contribution of the BNG: Parliament calls on the Council of Galicia to forward to Parliament, within a maximum of two months, the bill which regulates or entrusts the functions of the audiovisual authority, as it collects the final provision fifth. We also share this idea. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the financing of local authorities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u125	There are amendments from all groups. [[G. P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luis Bará Torres, through his spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Additional amendment.The following text should be added to the resolution:"Asemade, the Welsh Parliament urges the Committee of Galicia to demand from the Government of the State:— A new local funding system that takes account, in addition to the population criterion, of other factors that condition the cost of providing services such as the number of population, the territorial extension and ageing of the population.— The modification of the legislation on budgetary stability that affects administrations, eliminating rigid limits on public spending, indebtedness and recruitment of staff."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado del Río, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution should be replaced by the following: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to continue its detailed study, within the Standing Sub-Commission on Economic and Financial Plans, on the policy of grants of the Galician Union for local authorities, once the new system of autonomous and local financing enters into force."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of its alternate Member and spokesman Carmen Santos Queiruga, and in the light of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Additional amendment.The following text must be added to the resolution: "Insisting the Central Government to the immediate derogation from the Budget Stability Act, known as the Montor Law, so that the municipalities with surplus can, among other things, devote these resources to improving the well-being of the city, with more social expenditure and greater investment."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u126	To formulate the motion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we bring to the debate a motion that derives from the interpellation that we had the opportunity to debate in this parliament in the previous plenary session, and in which we again talk about the budgetary execution of the resources allocated to the Galician Union to the local authorities in Greece. Today we bring the debate, once again, the deficit in the financing of the Greek municipalities, and we bring the debate, once again, the management of the People's Party in Galicia's Union on the resources that are of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. The Galician Union, that is, the autonomous government of all the Greeks and all the Greeks, managed by the People's Party, governs as if it were a chiringuit—I employ the same terminology that I used today as President of the Galician Union, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. I mean, it uses local funding as if it were an electoral machinery, favoring local governments of their own political colour. A government you use according to your convenience. [[Applause]] I'm going to remind you of the election program of the People's Party in the autonomics of 2016, where the themes of local administration are actually being deployed in five points, on page and half: financing model, new city map of Galicia, transparency, demography and institutional coordination. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we're on the equator of this legislation. Today is precisely two years ago from the beginning of this tenth legislation, and so far it has been balanced with regard to your electoral programme, that is to say, your contract with Galicia and your contract with local governments, it is very short-sighted, very short-sighted! The PP does not allow the Greek municipalities to take forward the necessary policies that enable them to promote activities and provide public services that contribute to meeting the needs and aspirations of the neighbouring community, such as the Law on the Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration, a law also approved by the People's Party. Let's do an analysis of those five points -- as I said, squires -- that you included in your election program. I'm going to talk to you about the financing model, about meeting the specific needs of the Greek municipality and, in particular, about the demographic reality of our country. Well, they didn't do anything today. Look: the reality is that the Local Cooperation Fund — the base fund 2018 — is less than three million in 2009; that the additional cooperation fund ceases to be unconditional. So it's a fraud to call it an additional fund from the Local Cooperation Fund, since you in the budgets are putting those things up to over six million that are budgeting. It's not a local cooperation fund, it's not. The credit shown in Title V is seventy-four million less. Seven years in which the Galician Local Cooperation Commission was not convened. They have approved the Law on Public Shows and Recreational Activities, the Animal Welfare Act and the Law on Promoting the Implementation of Entrepreneurship Initiatives, granting them more competences to the Town Councils, but they have not transferred that absolutely necessary funding and that is collected in article 25 of the Basic Law, as you well know. They vote against a proposal for a local financing law, brought by this group to this parliament, in which the demands approved within the bosom of the Fegamp, which you — the councilman said the other day — are almost in an idyllic, wonderful relationship. And on the contrary, they don't collect those demands that they make in the bosom of Fegamp. In 2017 they left behind forty-three million, and the councillor of Fairy himself corrected that they were not forty-three, that they were forty-six. But what we don't know, according to the accountant's explanation, is why they're not fully executed. Although his explanation also makes us a little concerned, because he says that, as we know, what is not executed is incorporated into the next exercise. I understand that he only talks about when he's European funds, but we'd also like to know what he's doing with his own funds. What does the Galician Board do with those own funds that it doesn't execute?, where are they?, some plan?, do you incorporate them again?, do you tell us they're back in a program the following year, but they're still the same? They'll explain. And on the other hand, why don't they use all the resources? You know perfectly well that the lack of funding from the Greek municipalities is a fundamental problem for them to meet their citizenship. Point two, they're talking about the new city map of Galicia. And the contribution, in this sense, of the People's Party in Galicia's Union was the merger of four municipalities — Oza-Cesuras and Cerdedo-Cotobade — which was announced as a stellar measure that would end the problems of aging and depopulation of the Greek municipalities by the President of the Union himself. The reality today tells us that they are far from fulfilling this goal. We ask the Board of Auditors, and I hope you will vote in favour, to make a monitoring report on these mergers and to tell us and check whether this provision of more efficient and efficient services has been achieved, without diminishing the quality of local democracy, as you set up in your own electoral programme. I hope they will allow us to make this report. The reality is also quite rare, because they tell us that in Sardinia-Cotobade there was a merger in which the goal was to increase population, and it increased by thirty-six people. But at the same time, they lost 200. He'll explain to us, because this is a serious problem, which can even be delicious. Our group has asked for explanations at the moment, and we'd like to know what happened to those 200 ghost people, who were in the municipal pattern and suddenly disappear. Another of the star measures you announced was shared management, so the municipalities, when they join together, get about fifteen percent more subsidy — at least — that is done individually, also based on efficient and efficient management of available resources. The reality is that the municipalities join other municipalities to achieve that score, but this does not automatically move to more efficient and efficient resource management. In another moment, we will have the opportunity to analyse in detail each of these subsidies and see that this is a lie in many cases. Third point: transparency. They speak of the law of digital administration of Galicia and the implementation of electronic administration in the field of local administration. What do we know about this law? Is it working? Are you in any proceedings? Can we, ladies and gentlemen who are not members of the government group, have information on the process of this law? What's going on? And I also remind you that the Ministry of Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda published in 2018 an annual report on Spain's coverage in 2017 and the coverage by autonomous communities, and Galicia is one of the worst autonomous communities with the worst coverage in broadband. Point number four: demography. A new law of demographic impulse to articulate innovative mechanisms of fighting against depopulation, with policies that favor the provision of housing and new populations. Where is this law? We already asked; we also have a registered initiative. When are you going to bring this parliament to debate it?, when does the legislation end?, is it at that time? Where are those dwellings, if in housing policies they haven't done anything at all in nine years that they've been ruling? I've already asked here at this plenary session and in the committee on the subject of housing. Where are they? What are you going to do? When are you going to act? I'm going to remind you again that the demographic situation in Galicia is that in nine years of government, we lost more than ninety-five thousand inhabitants, that the growth in blue vegetation is the lowest in all autonomous communities, that in the conjunctural indicator of fertility we are the third community starting in the queue, and that the aging rate — I remind you again — is that of every 100 under sixteen, we have one hundred ninety-five and sixty-four years old. And in provinces like Ourense we have more pensioners than social security contributors. That is the demographic reality — unfortunately — of our country. Point five: interinstitutional coordination. We will promote coordination of the policies of the Union and of the provincial parliaments, advancing the creation of competence-sharing between governments. What have they done in this matter? It sounds absolutely nothing to us, absolutely nothing! The Government of the People's Party is a government of much peak and little pa. While the People's Party in Galicia met with stories and told us stories, while citizenship suffered the worst known economic and social crisis, the municipalities avoided social exclusion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u129	...and the economic exclusion of his neighborhood. The Councils answered their tales and acted, and they did not notice who the competition was. And the councils applied the bread to the people you left completely destitute. You're still acting with a caciquil system in which you decide which municipalities deserve their economic proximity and which you don't. I remind you that they have just had a grant in which, in non-competitive competition, in 12 minutes, the credits have been exhausted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u130	Thank you. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u131	We had this same experience with Plan Hurbe and also with a call from the Presidency Council last year. And look, of the nineteen municipalities that have been graced, seventy-nine percent are from the People's Party and they reach more than eighty-three percent of all the resources applied to this one. You decide. Mayors and mayors must have privileged information...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u132	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. He's got another round later. Look at the clock. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u133	Good afternoon. In this motion we understand from the BNG that there are two relevant and complementary issues that are both autonomous and state responsibility. One first question is to end the discretionary and partisan distribution of public funds by the Galician Union, which channels these funds to clearly favour the People's Party's Councils. And a second question is to put an end to the financial asphyxiation of the municipalities, derived from both a system of discriminatory and unfair financing for the Greek municipalities, as well as a law — basically that law of financial asphyxiation, the law of budgetary stability — which severely makes it difficult for the municipalities to act. He's been doing this for the last few years. In addition, this is aggravated by the continued transfer of powers by the Galician Union to the municipalities without the corresponding funding. He has already referred to this question the voicer of the Socialist Party, and I am not going to extend it. It is also necessary to refer to the systematic non-compliance throughout all these years of the local pact, the agreements and the issues put on the agenda of the Glaga Local Cooperation Commission, of which none were able to resolve; among them, issues related precisely to the competences of the municipalities and to the financing of the municipalities. The BNG will support this motion — let us make it clear from the outset, even though we have also made some amendments, and we do so because we have already done so when we discussed a text very similar to this — at least on the first three points — in a debate we had here in May. And besides, because it coincides with the demands made by the Fegamp, shared by all parliamentary groups of this chamber, and which are collected in a document that was sent to all groups entitled "For a new local financing model", a April 2017 document that marked this chamber and the Government's duties for this legislation. It's two years ago, and it's time to take an exam and see if they're actually meeting these demands. I remember that these are proposals, some of which are more or less collected on this initiative, such as there is a local farm law, which can be equated — although it is not exactly the same — with the Socialist Party's proposal to approve a financing law for local authorities in Greece. A second demand is the regulation of the participation of local authorities in the incomes of the Autonomous Community, taking into account demographic and population criteria and also the tax co-responsibility of the municipalities themselves — i.e. the tax effort of the municipalities — which should be taken into account in that division. And also another question which refers to the Socialist Group's initiative is the integration into the Local Cooperation Fund of grants that the municipalities receive annually on a recurring basis, and all those funds that go through the call for grants with objective criteria for distribution. And we understand that this is an explicit and clear denunciation of the partisan and clientry use of the People's Party since the Galician Union in the calls to the girl, like this one that has already been talked about here. Curiously they benefit in their vast majority of the People's Party governments, the People's Party councils. This also happens, curiously, in the agreements that you sign, for example, Waters of Galicia, or in the agreements that you sign the councils that you have in the Medal of Clientism and the Favorism Town Councils of the People's Party, which are both that of Environment, that of Infrastructure or that of Vice-Presidency. We can put examples of Plan Hurbe, of Plan Rexurbe, of all plans Hurbe that can imagine, and also, curiously, of agreements for the urbanization of truces, of urban crossings, of roads... as happened, for example, at the PO-308, which goes from Pontevedra to the Grove and, curiously, make an agreement with the Sanxexo Town Hall. But that road also passes through Poio, also passes through Grove, but with these municipalities there is no agreement. And at the PO-546, which goes from Pontevedra to Cangas, they make an agreement with the Marin Town Hall, curiously, but not with the Pontevedra Town Hall or with the Bueu Town Hall, for which this road also passes. I mean, these are very sui-general agreements, which the People's Party derives millions of euros. Well, so far there is a full coincidence with the Socialist Party's proposal; we add further demands, which are also contained in that document submitted by the Fegamp, and which also assume the requirement to the Government of the State of which it acts in its sphere. That's why we propose two questions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u135	...which are also part of that Welsh agenda that announced the BNG, and which have to do with a new local funding system, because the current one is absolutely discriminatory and unfair. Fegamp itself gave data of the theft of a billion million between 2004 and 2015 that did not reach the Greek municipalities by this discriminatory system, and also of the need to repeal a law, which is a law of financial suffocation — as I said earlier — the law of budgetary stability. And we want to remind the Socialist Party that it is currently ruling in the State and that there are supposedly most parliamentarians in the State who would allow this law to be repealed. So what we're asking for is -- also with our amendments -- more transparency and more resources for better services from the Greek municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u136	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u137	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I mean we're going to support this motion by the Socialist Party of Galicia, and it's also a pleasure to hear a woman talk about economics and budgets and not to listen to men. [[Murmurs.]] In addition to supporting these kinds of initiatives that are their own, in February last year a complaint has been made about the municipalities that are still alive today, and from here comes our amendment to add. The municipalities demanded, at a large meeting, the end of the Montoro Law to promote social politics. Because of the corses that I imposed on the Central Government of the PP, and also the Government of Wales, they drowned the Town Councils. And from the various municipal representatives, perhaps the most important or most famous statements were from the mayor of Madrid, Manuela Carmena, who assured, with the normative knowledge of this kind of law, which was greatly worsening the quality of life of the cities. I don't want it then, nor if you want it now from the German Government, to pay attention to what is said on the part of the municipalities. But the Town Councils are not in a position to declare any war; what we do have and exists is a common discourse: the Town Councils have demanded and demanded at the end of the Monster Law of 2013. Gürtel's PP didn't want to listen then. Let's hope that the new government will listen, and let's hope that this chamber will vote as a result of what they didn't want to hear, because five years are already a lot of back to municipal management. The Local Administration's Law of Rationalization and Sustainability still holds many municipal administrations still tied up today without the ability to manage, without budgetary capacity to meet their neighbours and neighbours, in the face of their real demands. And every time — as we often debate in the Commission 1st and in this plenary — the councils have more and more powers to care for the neighbours and neighbours, be they themselves, be they by inheritance, be they by decentralization, by obligation or by dislodge of the self-government itself, but above all by the budget and political dislodge of the Greek administration. Many municipal administrations — such as tidal governments — want to offer more and better services to neighbours and neighbours and, above all, want to increase social policies after a few years when economic inequalities were enormous, unceasing. And now that we're in recovery, we can clean up many of these and better care for the citizenship set through the nearest administration. That's why, through this amendment of adding, the derogation of the Montoro Law in a radical way. While the Central Government and the German Government of the party to today's doomed party observed, in 2017, in the distance, that rebellion of over a hundred cities of the rebel mayors — where our mayors were also – but they did not want to listen, there is still a unanimous position of municipalities of all the political colours that they put against the ropes to Montoro Manstesoiras. I didn't want to listen, and we hope you do now. Let us repeat these arguments: to improve the concepts of local funding and to try not to make it worse because of the situation of unceasing deterioration and the surprising irresponsibility of the alleged good managers of the People's Party, as a result, in the first term, of this Budget Stability Act. A very clear example was Mrs. Ana Botella's management. With Mrs. Manuela Carmen, the numbers of the reduction in the debt of this county are crushing, and just doing something as simple as not stealing. But still, in Madrid, in the face of a surplus situation, we saw how the billions of euros that had to be overcome could not be destined to make social policies because of the People's Party's Monster Law. The municipalities, in many cases with surpluses or with a very low level of indebtedness — that in Galicia there are many examples; I mentioned earlier the governments of the Coruña and Santiago—, should have autonomy to manage their resources to provide services to citizens. I suppose this will be the management that concerns Mr. Feijóo, and not to keep filling up with accused, or to go back to the accused, the councils of Galicia where we managed to drop them. Cities, towns and villages in the rural and urban world need adequate funding. The Greek municipalities, in addition, have funding under which, in principle, the Constitution assigns them to services, and this has always been a pending subject of our democratic system and the Greek system. Let's hope that at this new stage we can all work together, starting with the unanimous approval of this motion, and working with responsibility towards the municipalities of 2019 to reverse this situation, generated by the People's Party, in favour of the neighbours and neighbours. We therefore await the responsibility of all groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating an initiative by Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo very similar to one that we are debating on May 22, 2018, and as in the People's Party we are not as in the Socialist Party — that they are able to say one thing and the opposite in less than twenty-four hours and to say that it is a balloon probe — we are going to maintain the same criterion and speech as on May 22, and that last Friday in Commission 1st. It does not affect the change of government to defend the financing of local corporations. [[Applause]] The Socialist Party does. My colleague Alberto Pazos told him very brilliantly on Friday's commission. Look, only press headlines, because today it's about press headlines, and we're going to read a few corners in time. Or February 5, 2018: "Chief points out the reform of local finance as the greatest urgency to end the state of distress." On February 13, this year: "Chief: "The patience of the FEMP for local funding has been exhausted." Or May 30 this year: "Chief calls for a new local financing model from the FEMMP." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] July 5, 2018: "The Knight applauds Batet for his commitment to municipalism." What did Batet say?: "Batet argues that "simply" a new model of funding may be agreed to this legislature." And what does Montero say — not Montoro —?"Initiation of local finance reform requires the reordinating of municipal competences". [[Murmurs.]] Well, and today, gentlemen, we could accompany him with that song of "Don't call me Dolores, call me Lola." [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Rodríguez, who do we listen to, you or the FEMP emperor? Tell us, because, of course, the Lord who directs all, absolutely all, the Spanish councils are delighted with the new minister. He's delighted with what he says about the city council's funding. You don't like it, and it seems that your government partners don't like it either; it seems that Podemos and the Galego Nationalist Block are asking them, by way of amendment, for the State Government to start working on the new local financing model. What are you going to answer to those amendments today, Mrs. Rodríguez? What are you going to answer? What are you going to do in campaign mode? You've been campaigning for 100 days. That doesn't hold, Mrs. Rodríguez. They get to work and they're done with gestures, marketing and surveys, which work very well for them. In the polls you go very well; then, in the other, I think it's complicated to say that the government of the state is doing something for the interests of the municipalities, for the interests of the Greeks and for the interests of the Spaniards. You keep doing what you do, because you like that phrase so much. Today you've changed it, but I'm going to use your word: you do it, and bring here an initiative that seems to you to be very concerned about local funding, but from local funding you haven't said anything here. You came here to talk about everything but local funding. Tell us what the Government of the State is going to do, what you're going to ask the Government of the State, because you're asking the Government of the United States to make an autonomous law. See what he tells you about the amendments from the groups that are supporting them in the State Government. Look: when they ruled — yes, with two billion more – they did nothing at all, and now that they rule the People's Party — with two billion less in the budget — the Local Cooperation Fund increased by six million. And you're still here lying. But look: in a country where the greatest note of the realm of mind, that you lie, you no longer have any relevance. [[Applause]] Look, you say that seventy-nine percent of the municipalities that got to help were PP. I suppose with the same information as the PSOE Town Councils that got access to that help. Ah! but if the information has it in the PP municipalities, they predict it; if they have it in the PSOE and the BNG ones are normal, it's transparency, it has to be that way. As for the fusion of Sardinian and Cotobade, you come here again to lie, and you mind because you know, first, that there are not 200 inhabitants, it's one hundred seventy. Those hundred and seventy inhabitants had an open file... -I didn't interrupt it. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Listen, then you have your turn. They had an open research file at the INE and were not computed for fusion, Mrs. Rodríguez. But even if they were computed or not computed, the truth is that the sum of the two municipalities now gives more than 5,000 inhabitants. And, therefore, the population itself adds and increases the financial capacity of that municipality. I know you're not about mergers, that you're more than spending, wasting, taking office... we see that you're increasing the number of ministers, the number of cabinets, the number of staff... well, look, we're doing things differently. And speaking of the Councils of the Coruña and Santiago, who come to teach us here how money is managed in the Coruña and Santiago, when it comes, ladies and gentlemen, that in Santiago... Look, he likes Santiago! [[Murmurs.]] In Santiago they were unable to execute twenty-two percent of the budget, gentlemen. There is neither Montoro nor Feijóo and they are unable to manage more than twenty-two percent. [[Balbordo.]] And they come here asking for more money. For what? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're left! Mrs. Santos, I don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u140	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u141	The truth is, you're very nice to come here asking for money for Mr. Martiño, who doesn't really need them because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u143	...what Mr. Martiño has left is money to manage. He doesn't even know what to do with them. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, to see if the Government of the State gets to work on serious and important things and leaves the campaign mode, which has been five days. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now you start accusing insolvency and with gestures it doesn't all work. And, Mrs. Rodríguez, it's in your hands to end all this chirigot, with these chiringuits. It's in your hands, in the State Government. Get to work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u144	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u145	...make a funding law for local corporations, as their government partners are asked to do, and from there we speak. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u147	First of all, I would like to thank BNG and En Marea for their support for this initiative and, secondly, I am not surprised at what Mrs Prado del Río says here. Because you're talking about lies, that we lied. Look, I assure you, every time I pull out some data, I've got it totally contrasted. Totally! Whenever we want to discuss any data. And, besides, look, I'm taking out all the budgets, every year, what's stated... okay? What you put in your budgets. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows you some documents to the members of the House.]] So I won't consent, and I hope it's the last time, that you talk about that I lie, I don't lie at all in any data. And I'm not lying either when I tell you that from the 19th, fifteen municipalities, I'm from the People's Party, and that eighty-three percent of the consignee took him to the Town Councils of the People's Party. There you see institutional coordination with your municipalities, and that you clearly warn not all of your municipalities; therefore, some have certainly become angry. [[Applause]] They will already explain to their municipalities — even to those who did not warn — what the reasons were. And you'll explain to me how it's possible that at 00.00 hours the municipalities — city council officer — are ready, ready, to press the button to get them in time. You'll explain to me how they do it to each other and not to each other. You talk about transparency, but you're the first to never apply it at all. Look: we are carrying out an initiative that reproduces textually — practically textually — what was requested in the document called: "Executive summary of the Commission's analysis for the study and proposal for measures to reform the legislation governing local farms". I don't have the document here, but you tell me if I lied to it, too. Point 3.1.4: "Transfers through grants". First: Galician Union, Galician Union. You don't talk about the state, you don't come here... they've been ruling nine years uninterruptedly, seven years uninterruptedly in the government of the state, and they haven't done anything at all. The claims of the Greek Town Councils are still the same as nine years ago, the same. [[Applause]] Absolutely nothing! You want us, in a hundred days and with a known parliamentary minority, to do everything you haven't been able to get ahead. And they couldn't get it forward because they had absolutely no interest, no interest! [[Murmurs.]] They're doing very well with the caciquil system and you decide who they benefit and who they don't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u148	Quiet. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u149	What we ask for in our motion, and they can vote against it, is by means of an autonomous and consistent law with Fegamp the financing of local entities, to establish non-finalist shares within the total transparency chapter of the Galician Union for local entities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. The debate is clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u151	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u152	Look, one thing, about the amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u153	No, we want our proposal to be voted on: that we are asking for our duties to the Council of Galicia. They fulfill their duty and responsibility. [[Murmurs.]] Don't try to send him to another station.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u154	I mean, don't you accept any?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u155	No, none.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u156	Thank you. It's your right, if you don't accept any, because you don't accept any.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u157	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u158	We're going to vote on the motions. Close the doors, please. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u159	We started by voting on the motion of the En Marea Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Eva Solla. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. from In Marea, at the initiative of Mrs. Eva Solla Fernández, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the closing of beds and services during the summer months in Sergas hospitals. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u160	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Maria de los Angeles Cuña. We have already read the transactional text, we have voted on that text. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. Mr de In Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the management of CRTVG. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u161	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo. Amendments to other groups are not accepted. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the financing of local authorities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u162	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We move on to point 4 of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and six other Members, on the realization by the Government of Greece of the timely management before the Ministry of Development, within the framework of the contract awarded by Renfe to Talgo, to equip Galicia with AVRIL trains to provide the service on the Madrid-Ourense-La Coruña and Vigo line, in order to improve the time of connection with Meseta
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u163	There are amendments from all groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u164	Mr. Fernández Prado has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Today we bring the debate to this non-law proposal in relation to management before the Ministry of Development so that it will be given to Galicia by AVRIL trains, to provide the service of the Madrid-Ourense line to the Coruña and Vigo, because despite the fact that it is an initiative that we have been registered for some time — specifically registered last June of 2017 — we have recorded it according to our knowledge that this purchase of trains is going to be made, but now we understand that it is particularly current, and I will try to explain it below. I would also like to recall that this non-law proposal was tabled and registered as the People's Party ruling in Madrid. I've been repeating in the last three, four months, since the change of government, that Galician PP will continue to maintain the same criteria, the same demands and the same sense of vote with Mr. Sánchez's Government as he did with Mr. Rajoy's Government. This is another example, let's hope that other groups will do the same too. As stated in November 2016, the Minister of Development, Íñigo de la Serna, announced that he had just awarded Talgo a contract for the manufacture of fifteen AVRIL train units and its maintenance for thirty years. Since then the minister had made progress that this contract could be extended to 15 other units, in this case, in addition, of variable width, which is the truly significant for Galicia. Something that has been done since May 2017, so on that date we registered this non-law proposal. In addition, it was said that they would be prioritized both in delivery and exposed in use. It's true that since that presentation on this record, many things have happened, among them, a change of government in Spain. And since in the whole past we believe it is important that, as we ask that the deadlines for the high-speed line be guaranteed, we also understand that it is important to place this Parliament on issues of the quality of service of these AVRIL trains. In that last plenary session, I believe that in a majority, without a vote against, we reinforced this request to the Central Government to meet the deadlines previously committed by the Government of Mariano Rajoy, despite the fact that the first statements by the Greek socialist leaders and leaders of the Government of Pedro Sánchez questioned the committed date, at the end of 2019, which I believe was referred to by the technicians and that I sincerely believe that this declaration from Parliament helped the minister subsequently confirm the end date of 2019 and the President of the Government himself, in meeting with the President of the Union. And just as we had made it clear that Galicia couldn't give up on the completion date of 2019, we also think it's important to refer to the need for this service in the best technological conditions of service. And that's why we also present this non-law proposition, with the will to achieve, if it can be, unanimity, but rather a large majority, to request and strengthen this demand before the Government of Spain. These three trains are of the last generation, the most efficient and competitive ones that are currently manufactured, and they have a number of features that are worth remembering. They're much better at the quality and offer of seats, and they can reach up to 500 or 600 squares, thus optimizing convoys. But besides, they're lighter, so energy consumption, by environmental issues, is more favourable. They also drive at speeds of up to 330 kilometers/hour, reaching very competitive times on these trips. But, above all, what's important in the case of Galicia, is that they have sliding bearings. This allows the same trains to be circulated on double track, which is what will happen between Madrid and Vigo and La Coruña in the coming years. Therefore, this AVRIL train is the only rolling stock that Renfe will have in his mobile park that fully guarantees high-speed benefits with variable-wide routes, such as that of Madrid-Galicia. Finally, we understand that they are a number of services that make these trains more comfortable for the passenger, more competitive and offer a better service. But not only that, these also carry the best security systems, and I think it's an important fact that we should not forget in this House either, which would allow us to travel at the highest speed at almost 82% of the journey between Madrid and Santiago de Compostela, more than 300 kilometers per hour. That is why we understand it is important to maintain this commitment that explicitly, verbally, we have already made the Minister of the Serna, of the People's Government, and above all because in recent times, in these four or five months, we have heard a series of statements by the Ministers of the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez that make us worried. They are, I think, known to all, but because of some of the many, in principle the deadlines of the AVE have been put in question, then rectified; the liberalisation of the payroll, we will have occasion to speak of it in this plenary; also the execution of the Ártebra route, a subject we believe to be serious because it precedes the interests of the concessionaire to the people and the neighbors around the Crown, but the last one has already been to question the plan of road investments, and with this we also put a loose investment we believe that very important for Galicia, as is the new layout between Vigo and The Porriño, the extension of A-52, which we understand was planned in this plan, was collected. That is why we have already registered a non-legislative proposal in this respect, since it was also necessary for this Parliamentary referendum or this reinforcement in demand. We understand that it is a strategic route, it was collected and, if necessary, we will bring it to this Parliament as well. So a few important doubts about the new government. We believe that these are strategic works for our community, so we understand that it is necessary, as far as possible, as we have done in the middle of July with the deadlines of the AVE, to bring here, at least, the requests for referendum of this parliament so that we can have the trains that best service can give, not only in quality, but also in efficiency, in safety and, above all, in ways of variable width. Therefore, ask for support for this initiative that says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to carry out the necessary management to the Ministry of Development so that, in the context of the contract that Renfe has helped Talgo, if Galicia provides AVRIL trains, thus improving the connecting times with the plateau and making them more competitive." On the amendments presented by the groups, we will have an opportunity to listen to their defense, but I would like to extend or ask a small question to the En Marea group. Then we'll talk about the amendments of the three groups. But, of course, when we hear this week presenting and registering a non-legislative proposal at the Congress of Deputies asking for a moratorium on the new AVE projects, the question is simple, Mr. Cal, is: what do you understand about new AVE projects? Is the southern exit of Vigo a new project or not? That's the question. Or...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u166	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u167	...the connection... They're simple. It's just clarifying to value...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u168	Silence! Listen, they're in the use of the word. Please listen!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u169	...to evaluate later... [[Murmurs.]] Please, I think I always hear, I say it with respect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u170	Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u171	Mr. Lage, I think you're a respectful person...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u172	Mr. Lago, silence, please! Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u173	...I think I should listen. In any case, I also hope that the amendments will be clarified. In particular, is the southern exit of Vigo a new project or not? Is Lugo's connection with Ourense to Madrid a new project or not? I think that both this amendment from BNG and others I think it's important to know. And in this sense, we will soon have an opportunity to talk about these amendments. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. Mr Bará Torres has the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u175	This initiative can be described as a delayed effect, and it welcomes the name because we are talking about the train to Galicia, and the one that is delayed or delayed — they go to at least twelve years, because it suits you well. I say it's a delayed effect because it was presented on the 1st of the 6th of 2017, and it actually coincides with that announcement of the AVRIL train macro contract in Talgo worth 2,642 million. A contract that provides for the delivery of these trains in the first half of 2020, which we already know that neither — the delayed effect — will be fulfilled. By then it was said in the press notes of the ministry that these trains, precisely, were designed to serve in the northern communities of the state that had this difficulty of variable width, by the evolution of the works. So, the first question we're asked, Mr. Martín, is whether they registered the initiative in June 2017, they spent 15 months, what did they do in all this time to meet this demand, because they were ruling you in Galicia and Madrid, and I suppose this time of more than a year that they had time to negotiate. They had these visits by the Minister, these follow-up committees, these joint committees, and we don't understand very well what happened. I don't know if she's been forgotten in a drawer and now she's been resurrected. How come they haven't executed this proposal yet? Really, here's what you're doing is a confession, a recognition of failure. Bring this proposal because you haven't done it before when you've had a chance to do it, ruling here and in Madrid. And this debate also illustrates something positive that Mr Sánchez's Government has already brought about. One positive aspect is that the People's Party has discovered rail discrimination in Galicia's infrastructures. Welcome, you just discovered this! [[Applause]] Because when the People's Party was ruling in Madrid everything was on wheels, everything was going perfectly. What we think is that here they are looking for an excuse to reopen that false debate, that deceptive, devious debate, from the arrival of Galicia of the high-speed train — the AVE is a commercial brand — that the chronicle of a delay announced: 2009, 2012, 2015, 2018 now 2019, will be 2020, it will be 2024, because there are many unknowns still on this issue. For example, what about the Teixeiras viaduct, what about the Taboadela-Ourense line, what about the electrical supply and the delays of Gudina substation? Because, of course, without electricity, we're not going to have a high speed on the dates you're talking about. And we're not even going to have that with AVRIL trains, because, as you just heard recently, there was a disagreement between Talgo and the ADB company that will also delay the construction of those trains, because it was this company that had the agreement with Talgo to supply the traction engines, and now you have to look for another Talgo partner, which will no longer meet that deadline, possibly 2020, for the arrival of these trains. Anyway, logically, we want more modern trains, more comfortable trains, more environmentally friendly trains and trains, of course, of the 21st century. But it seems to us that this debate is hiding what really is the need for Galicia in rail matters, which are the priorities. And what makes it obvious, in any case, is that exchange of papers between the PSOE and the People's Party. This is like the shoe effect. You're changing roles and what I was saying before, I'm saying the opposite now. And we also ask the PSOE, in any case, if it will continue to defend what they proposed in these plenary debates, to recover the 2,000 million euros not executed by the People's Party governments, for example, to pay for the increases in the fees you said. We're also waiting for an answer to that. So the background debate for us is that we need a railway defence strategy in Galicia; we need a strategy of our own from the Galician Union too, with a clear requirement to the central government; a strategy that has three clear pillars. First, you're close. We need a nearby railroad. We need our own competences in rail matters, as you said when they called for a contract in 2010 to make a law for Galicia to have its own railway service. They also left her stored in a drawer. Second, commodities. Other key issues to have a train in the future. Port connection. Improving the Monforte-Palencia line...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u176	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u177	...also the dry port of Monforte, which is a great empty explanation. And thirdly, modernization and vertebration of the country by train. Complete the Atlantic axis from Ferrol to Porto. The improvement of the Ferrol-Ribadeo train, which is a shame how this train is. That has to be a real political and budgetary priority. And, of course, improved connections and ended the railway isolation of Lugo and Ourense. So we want a 21st century train. We can't miss this train again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u178	By the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u179	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández Prado, let's go ahead and vote on this non-law proposal, so I assure you that we will achieve that vast majority of this House. But it will allow me to clarify a doubt in advance. I'm convinced AVRIL trains are magnificent. They have variable width, they're around 330 kilometers/hours, they're safer, they're more comfortable, but what I didn't see in the technical specification is that they travel by highways, because you've made a reference here to the highway between the Porriño and Vigo that I don't know what has to do with this proposal not by law. Frankly, on the day you see a train traveling by the highway, I'll put my hands to my head and say, "This is indeed a breakthrough." [[Applause]] You registered this initiative in June, as Mr Bará has already told you, 15 months ago, which converts you... No, no, you've spent a lot of time justifying the delay in bringing this initiative to plenary. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's been a long time! It is true that he is practically an indictable parliamentary officer. Because we have digital administration, if not, the paper would be yellow. But you bring it to the plenary when you consider it relevant, like all groups. Do you know what the real problem with all this is? It's not AVRIL trains, is that you in this non-law proposition are like a little boy saying, I want the big truck. Okay, but we needed a road to put the truck on, and the problem is we don't have any way to put the train on. And we have no way of setting up a train because you — you have spoken before, and I quote literally, of chiry exhausted by the execution of the budget — Mr. Rajoy's government in 2015 only executed 39.56% of what you had planned — for the AVE I am talking about. In 2016, 28.71%. In 2017, the first semester, 13.9%. That's the 2,000 million people you always talk about. You add up what was recorded and what is executed. And he had no doubt that there was a commitment by the Government of the State to the maintenance of the deadlines of the AVE, because we are going to do so, the difference of the Government of the People's Party, which was all publicity and propaganda. So the commitment to having completed that infrastructure is firm, and then, of course, we're going to demand that this autonomous community be provided with the best trains they can circulate. As has already been said, they seem specially designed for the northern part of the state. You used the term sock change here, or you turn the sock around, but you change more of a criterion than the alternating polarity current. I mean, what they didn't demand until June of this year, asks for it all the time. Why didn't you register it? Oh, no, no, I know why they didn't register it, why they didn't put it in plenary because it was the volume of demands that you made until June this year to the Central Government of Spain that there was no room for this. So they didn't give him a chance to be able to bring this non-law proposition. [[Applause]] Man, let's be a little more serious recognizing the need. We are going to support this non-law proposal and we are going to vote in favour, regardless of whether we consider it a bit extemporaneous and a little forced, but, as you will understand, we are bound to make a technical amendment to it. This amendment refers to processing. As you know perfectly — because I'm sure you know it — who has the autonomy of management is Renfe Operator, it's neither the Ministry of Development nor the Adif. And the one who organizes the circulation of trains, therefore, will be the one who has to demand that. I'm telling you, more than nothing, because it's not gonna happen to them as it happens to the work of the old residence in Lugo, that you've made a mistake in the processing, come to Fmento and tell them: no, it's not here, and go to the window which is not and we've wasted time. So you go directly to Renfe Operator and ask them to provide Galicia with these AVRIL trains at high speed. So, I insist, we're going to vote in favour of it, but, really, this proposal not of multi-amended law, it just missed the amendment of its own group, these self-amendments that are currently putting so much fashion in this House, because the truth is they could take a breath, especially if you had thought to talk about highways instead of AVRIL trains. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. On the part of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal Ogango has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u181	Thank you, President. Fernández Prado, I respond very quickly. Only someone who has no idea about the railway can confuse an AVE with a train running 200 kilometers an hour. Only someone who has no idea about the railway. [[Applause]] And another question we also want to see if you can answer in your reply. You demand and demand that AVE arrive in 2019, and at the same time call for this train to come. The information we're counting on is that this train is not ready until 2020. So, see if you can clear up this question too and see how you can fit one thing with the other, we also thank you. Because here we see a question of difficulty in space-time that doesn't fit us. We here, on this initiative, clearly see an electionist inn. You're trying to lead the defense of the arrival of AVE to Galicia even though you're the main one responsible for not being here, when they promised to arrive in 2010. The slogan of his last seven years on rail in Galicia can be: "The AVE that never comes, while we destroy the conventional train." You're still focusing on the mistake of talking only about AVE in your railway policies, while destroying the conventional train; what's vertebrate the country; what transports commodities, improving our economy and our environment; what defends equality and the right to mobility; what uses more than 95% of rail users, compared to less than 5% of those using AVE. And yet you've been devoting 70% of all these years to the AVE railway budgets, and only 30% to the rest of the network, and this is absurd since the defense of a country project. That's how they left the Galician railway network! So they annihilated or train in Galicia! We remember our position because there's a lot of demagogy and a lot of interest in getting electoral profitability. We defend that the AVE will arrive in Galicia and that it will arrive as soon as possible, without further aggravating to Galicia, without further cuts, without further delay. And, above all, without safe cuts, so that it comes in time to cut ties, which we well know what it costs after that happened in English, which you intend to hide. The PP is undoubtedly the annihilator of the railway in Galicia. The years of Government of Mr. Rajoy were also the years of deterioration of the German railway service, the reduction of stations, lines and staff, the abandonment of maintenance and new performances. They did absolutely no new performance, absolutely no new performance, in seven years, and destroyed much of what we had on the Greek railway network. That's your balance, as much as you don't like to hear it. You have the merit of placing a Greek line in the first position as the state line with the highest number of incidences, Ferrol-Ribadeo; leaving Ourense and Lugo in the 19th century railway; losing half the users on the Ferrol-Coruña line for abandonment and deterioration. They didn't recover when Inñigo de la Serna left Galicia outside the Atlantic corridor, a matter so important to Galicia that we managed to solve without you and despite you. For you there is only the AVE that builds your friends. The Atlantic axis continues with the problem of lack of frequencies and better times, and at high prices; and continues without building either the southern exit or the connection to Ferrol. We have already talked about this in other debates, as in the Ourense-Compostela line, which has clear tariff discrimination and few frequencies. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, repeat to me: The Atlantic axis is not an AVE. It's not that hard. Stop fooling people, confuse people. The Atlantic axis is not an AVE! We defend the model of a union between the conventional high-performance train, the Atlantic axis model, with a network of fences and with the dynamization of freight transport. That's to have a country plan and plan! You don't have any credibility when they talk about railroads. You are symbolizing the failure of a railway model, that of the ballast and the oversized mega-works, the cost of the destruction of the conventional network. You are symbolizing the irrational decay and collapse that anyone can check with the data. The railway model of the People's Party in Galicia is summed up in four points: the application of the neoliberal path with cuts and privatization; the reduction of State budgets to Galicia during the years of Government of Mr. Rajoy, and you said nothing, they shut up and even congratulated the Development saying that it was very good with Galicia when, year after year, budgets continued to be cut, and, above all, the execution of them. Another point, the substitution of public service by a commercialist vision. And finally, the wager for AVE to the detriment of the conventional train, applying 70% of the reduced budgets to AVE, which makes Spain the second country in the world in kilometers of AVE, in most cases with forecasts of overvalued uses to wisdom, while destroying the railway that most people use. Time's up. We introduced four amendments. If you are really concerned about the railway — very briefly — we propose two audits, one on the efficiency and rationality of the investments made — if you think they did so well, you shouldn't have any problems. Another audit of the causes of the high incidence of environmental aggressions in Galicia, which, as you know, are high in the works of the AVE. I suppose you'll also be interested in knowing what happens so that it doesn't happen. And then, two issues that have to do with investment: to ask the Government of State to recover the growth investments prior to the entrance of the People's Party and to draw up a report on the budget fall during the years of the People's Party in the State, to negotiate with the new Government a recovery of them for investments that so much need the infrastructures in Galicia after the People's Party's Development Pass. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u182	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u183	Good afternoon again. I'm going to start at the end, on the amendment of En Marea. Speaking of what we bring in at the LNP, because we can talk about another train... by the way, Mr Bará, we've been discussing these issues on several occasions. We share a lot of the things that are included in the amendment, but bring, bring, if you like, because that's totally different from what we've been talking about here today. Many of them are already voted on at the time of the rule of Mariano Rajoy, and their amendment is already voted on by this Parliament by the vote of the People's Group. You can bring her whenever you want, that we'll back support her as we did when Mariano Rajoy ruled. In any case, the issue of the En Marea amendment cannot be supported. It has two characteristics. First, to question the effort and commitment of the previous Government to investments. Look, we're going to miss very much the execution of investments in Development now, with the Government of Pedro Sánchez. As, fortunately, if God wants, we will continue to see all of us, we will see the execution in Galicia of the Ministry of Development and miss that execution. In any case, the other side, first, to question that, when we're seeing that at least we have that commitment, and thanks to these investments, you can have the train by the end of 2019. Anyway, the other side of In Marea, what's it been? Then also to question the social profitability of AVE to Galicia. Always the nationalists, and their friends of Podemos in Madrid, the doubts are when investments arrive in Galicia. That's the problem. So far social profitability didn't matter, we only see them defending the AVE, or high speed or whatever they want to call it, Burgos. If they begin to defend really in Madrid the one of Galicia, now that it seems that this deputy in Madrid has to do some merit to get the leadership of the Podemos group — which could do some merit, at least defend it once and not only the one of Burgos. [[Applause]] In any case, the doubts about social profitability are always when Galicia plays; when they are other communities, they don't. So we can't support it. On the subject of the PSOE, I believe that the amendment, frankly, is to try to bring to a technical issue of Renfe something that is a political commitment, which is what we ask of the Development. An engagement, Mr. Álvarez Martínez, which seems not to have. That's why the highway exits The Porriño-Vigo, because all statements by the government of Pedro Sánchez concerning Galicia are questionable. They call it what they want, highway or whatever, trains or whatever, everything is doubtful about these investments because it seems that this minister only looks at Valencia. In any case, that's why I was the first one to say this non-law proposition is June last year. Why is it necessary now? So far, Minister Iñigo de la Serna said they would be used here. All right, but I said it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We don't have that confirmation with the socialist government. Let them do it! That's why he's here, that's why this is the time! Because so far there was no doubt that they could be used here. In any case, we understand that it would — I believe — be very interesting for Galicia that we had this support.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u184	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u185	But, Mr Bará, of course, we're talking about 50 things within an amendment. Yeah, all over the system, we can talk about everything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We bring something concrete and we can talk about everything. In any case, I have told you that many of these proposals are already voted on by this Parliament. We are willing to defend them again if necessary. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u186	Thank you. We are now debating two non-legislative proposals in a cumulative way. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez and Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia in relation to the implementation of the improvements of working conditions in the public enterprise Seaga G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the experience, working conditions and tasks of the staff of the public enterprise Seaga
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u187	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled to the motion for a non-law of the Parliamentary Group on Tide. The Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has a self-amendment of the group itself, the Nationalist Block Galego, and another amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u188	The scheme will be as follows: 10 minutes for the proposed groups and a time of 7 or 8 minutes for the non-proposing groups. Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor for the defence of non-legislative proposals, first of all, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u189	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. First of all, I would like to greet the comrades and fellows of the public company Seaga who are accompanying us today, and once again show our support for that strike they are having so that their work rights are recognized. Seaga is a public company that was created by the Galician Union for the realization, as a proper means of the Galician administration, of all kinds of actions, works, jobs and services in forest matters, but especially those related to the prevention and fight against forest fires and, in particular, in general, urgent interventions related to forest fires. In the forest fire prevention and extinction device, several actors live together, but at the time of the direct attack on the first line of fire, we find the personnel running the tasks, such as agents and technicians, essentially, and the personnel facing the blades. And that's where the public defence service against forest fires and brigades contracted through the public company Seaga is. There is no difference between these types of workers and workers at the time of the extinction of forest fires. They are under the same command and act in coordination. But there are several differences before and after. The staff hired directly by the Council is included in the Fifth Collective Staff Convention of the Galician Union of Workers. Staff hired through Seaga have no agreement or application of the V Collective Convention. You apply the Staff Regulations, it's true, curiously when it comes to reducing wages by applying salary cuts to public employees. The wages of workers and Seaga workers are lower than those of the staff hired directly by the public service against forest fires. They are not recognized for the time spent in Seaga to access the recruitment of the Galician Union recruitment lists. Seaga's workers and workers are forced by the company, through an imposed protocol that they denounced before the Labour Inspectorate, to carry out on the same day's work of prevention and extinction, with the risk that this would entail for security and for the decline in effectiveness in the extinction of forest fires. They've seen four-hour work hours of prevention work and more than 8 hours of extinction. In short, they perform the same functions as their partners and the partners in the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service, but they earn less, they have fewer rights, they have fewer contracts, they have fewer durations, they have to perform prevention and extinction tasks on the same day and, in addition, they don't know how much time they've worked on. Since the company committee — and many individuals, workers and workers — they have denounced and won judgments that recognize them the rights of the Fifth Single Staff Convention of the Galician Union of Labour. They are waiting for the Labour Inspectorate's resolution by the protocol that obliges them to duplicate these tasks and are requesting the direction of Seaga and the Public Service to apply to them the sixth transitional provision of the Loxfaga, which says, "in relation to staff regulated in Title III of this law whose legal regime assigns them lower remuneration than those established in the collective staff convention of the Union for the corresponding categories will proceed within two years, since the adoption of this law, to negotiate with trade union organizations present in the General Public Employees Bureau the application of the collective employment agreement of the Union." This law is Law 16/2010 of 17 December, with which almost eight years have passed since its adoption. I'm going to set an example. In the CEO of December 5, 2017, a resolution from the Environmental Council was published advertising a management order for Seaga to execute during the 2017 exercise conservation actions in natural parks in Galicia throughout that year. The workers on the Seaga lists, who developed their tasks of maintaining, preserving and protecting the natural park network infrastructures — in particular this work was on Mount Aloia — they have been developing these tasks since June. This resolution automatically extended the order until the end of the year. On the other hand, Seaga's workers' contracts, and workers' contracts, were tacitly extended by being temporary contracts with an end to work. In principle, this end of work was calculated for the year 2019. In July 2018, workers and workers were dismissed for work, and in their place they are doing the work of Tragsa's workers. So you might ask us if we know that this order exists in Seaga, how long it was scheduled to last that contract, and why, if you put an end to it in a certain month, you don't tell the people who are doing that job. We don't know if Junta considers it appropriate to communicate from day to day from the end of the contracts, as they are doing. And we don't know whether Junta is aware of the work of Tragsa workers, who are being the same, exactly the same, who used to be performing Seaga workers and workers. On September 18th, there was a meeting of the Directorate-General for Public Service, the Conseilería do Medio Rural and the manager of Seaga. The Public Service called for this meeting because of the loss of the order to extinguish the fires of the public company. And he says that over the next few years it will be done through the Public Defence Service against Forest Fires — by the staff of the Rural Council. This will result in the recruitment of approximately five hundred people by the temporary recruitment lists of Decree 37/2006, as amended by Decree 5/2007. And, of course, this Member and our parliamentary group have doubts in our minds and we wonder if the loss of this order by the public company Seaga will mean the hiring of 100 percent of the staff in the Union. Public function tells us what is possibly going to be done like this. We asked if these 500 posts were to be included in the Rural Environment RPT. Public function says it'll possibly be like this. We wonder if they've planned to negotiate the amendment of the decree only by the theme of Seaga or if it's going to be a more open negotiation that includes other collectives and other aspects of the decree. I'm scared because you guys are able to score UME even more than Seaga. There is a deeper review of the decree of lists on issues such as calling areas, such as flexibility in penalties, valuation of services rendered as employees in future operationalization processes or consideration of time worked in public administrations. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, a public administration cannot allow some of its staff to be in a job situation like the workers and the workers of the Seaga public enterprise. And then, after having those answers that have dropped — although nothing in writing — Public function, we today bring here this proposal not of law for we ask that a subrogation be applied to Seaga workers and workers including these and these in the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service and that the time worked in Seaga is recognized — three months a year, which has been the most risky season, and what needs to be reviewed, since a few years ago this season of greatest risk has expanded — in accessing the recruitment lists of the Galician Union. And since the Public Service, even if it doesn't write anything, gives us good words, today we count on the support of all groups of this House to pass this non-law proposal. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u190	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon. They've got us all haunted! Clergy! The Administration has never been so efficient in such a short time. It turns out that the fire study commission was approved by the PP and the PSdEG in plenary session of this House on the 11th day. The aforementioned ruling, as far as the Fire Prevention and Extinction Service is concerned, contains a paragraph, on a proposal from the People's Party, which is summarized in appointing a commission of experts who will study the reforms that are deemed appropriate or their restructuring. For this reason, neither the appearances of the specialists who came to the above-mentioned fire commission nor the contributions of the representatives of the workers of this service who visit us periodically to expose their problems were enough. A committee of experts on another committee of experts. We voted against, you know, by taking the opposite, even though they wanted us to be content with the candy of choosing each political group one of the wise ones of this committee. Look, we won't take it! Well, they must have chosen the wise men, they have already met, they have studied and they have already recommended, I say!, because a few days ago the Council announced to Seaga that this will be the last campaign that counts with their extinction services. Closed for reforms. Yes, the Council itself speaks of a restructuring of the prevention and extinction services without waiting for the councils of the committee of wise men. Democracy with capital letters. And, of course, the van explodes, because the forest firemen of Seaga's brigades will not be recognized the services provided so they can choose to enter the board service when they liquidate and close the extinction in Seaga. And in this way, and I thank that efficient committee of wise men, the conflict, which has been present for some time, is materialized in strike because the affront and contempt become unbearable. Who's interested in Seaga's workers? By the way, a very original strike, with a hundred percent of minimum services. For us, a coat of hair. This is good. Because in the fire they are forest firemen with all those of the law, or not? They are 528 men and women who wear the same PPE, carry the same batteries, breathe the same smoke and perform the same functions on an equal basis. Oh, yes, but they're not allowed the time to opt for the Joint Prevention and Extinction Service! Of course last week we were told in Commission 7 that they were valuing the possibility. Shame had to give the PP government to keep this situation up to now and to be still thinking about it! They'll be meditating on an evenly balanced scale, at least the most advantageous of the other multiple still active groups: municipal brigades, Tragsa, privates and other varieties of the Pancho Villa army of extinction. Because, if we don't do this, we're going to face up to the perverse situation caused by a political decision that the workers who put their lives at risk by laboring in the first line of combat against forest fires and under the same command, in a coordinated manner by the same leaders, subject to the same risks and sacrifices, those and because yes, the Council is going to divide them into two castes: first-time workers and second-hand workers. All depending on who made them the contract in that campaign and not on the work they've been doing in their professional life. In a colloquial way and for you to understand yourself: if you've hired a forest district, you've given me your experience and I'll point it out on the lists; but if you've hired Seaga in that same district and you've gone to the same fires with your teammate, even though you've shared day and night with him, and his work, risks and dangers, I'm not worth your experience and I don't score you, because I don't like it. In this same irregularity package you're going to be doing prevention and having to change your clothes and get out of a fire. Just as the new fires are at risk, it is a fearful thing to keep this protocol as it is. It jeopardizes the integrity of these workers and their operation and effectiveness in the fires. They argue that the Seaga contracts include double prevention and extinction, which obliges Seaga staff to have to go to extinction with prior work. The top are — I think — 12 hours. How many times, when the fire is hard, when it becomes rebellious, the brigades and the brigades are more and more over the established hours?Oh, my God! Well, that's because most of them have the heart in defense of the mountain, and it can be more the urgency of the fire than the back when it's tired. That's why it's fair that they turn this one around, let's say, circumstances, signed along with other Leonine conditions in a labor contract and in a labour market that's what it is. We therefore also accept that the V Convention cannot be applicable to a commercial society and that it is exclusively for the staff of the Administration. All right, well, but the different societies created by the administration and which are not administration have their own agreement. Let us set the example of Tragsa. So let us go there and put, as a minimum level of negotiation acceptable and accepted, the labour and wage conditions of the Fifth Convention. I mean, let's apply it to them without applying it to them. It's about justice. For the same performance of functions and jobs, wage and work conditions must be the same. Yes, we know they're workers. And that's what PP's got to do with it. If they were entrepreneurs, they'd have gold and moire. Question of ideology, of course. Look, the Rural Council cannot have two workers who depend on it and who have the same performance, roles and work with different wage and work conditions, regardless of whether they are their employees or employees in a commercial society of their own. This is categorising workers, depending on who legally signs their contract, in first- and second-class workers, made inadmissible in a public service. The last point of our LNP seems to be pergrulum, but as we know what right-wing people are capable of with that of the public and subcontracts, because, in case of course, if the agreement signed between the Rural Council, the Fegamp and Seaga on the collar of the security bands goes ahead — it will have to be another way and for the health of our municipalities — if that goes ahead, it would be logical for Seaga to count on the staff currently working and to extend the working time. Don't you think so? And at the end of the day, we must point out that we should not care that the majority collective within Seaga is the one dedicated to fires. It would be good to respect the equalization between workers regardless of their department or line of work. And the foundations should be established to cover the possibility of changes in the structure and composition of the company's workload. There must also be no workers from first to second at the internal level. Finally, they have the possibility of remedying an unfair situation in all light, a capital arbitraryness which does not withstand the slightest common sense. In fact, it says a lot about this situation of the popular party style by managing the public and the private, the self and the ally, to administer unequally and capriciously. They've got a caramel point, will they be able to trace it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u192	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u193	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. We also want to send a greeting to Seaga workers who are in the gallery and logically to all Seaga workers who cannot accompany us today and who do not follow us logically. Seaga, once again, is the subject of debate in this Parliament. What happens is that the external debate is prolonged, the debate of the forest fire prevention and extinction service itself, the debate on the forest fires device and the debate on the working conditions of Seaga workers on the street itself. This public enterprise created by the Galician Union in 2006 — with twelve years of life, therefore — is at the heart of this debate. And it does not occupy the centre of this debate by whims or rabidness of its staff. It has been at the centre of this debate for the cercenados, manciladas, for Mr. Rajoy's governments since 2009, to govern us full of prejudices over all the two-party government decisions presided over by Mr. Pérez Touriño. And this is one more case of those prejudices that have provoked in the last nine years, in the years of Mr. Feijóo's government, you continue to be unjust and contemptuous with and with Seaga's workers and workers. [[Applause]] We are debating Seaga's merits as such, but also and, above all, the Government's demerits with a collective at its service, a collective owned by the Greek administration. This public agricultural service company in Galicia performs all kinds of activities, works, jobs and services in forest matters, especially in actions with the prevention and fight against forest fires. It is part of the device for the prevention and extinction of forest fires along with other collectives, forest agents, environmental agents, brigades of the Rural Environment Council itself, municipal brigades, etc. They are part of this device, but they do not have the same conditions, they don't work in equality, they're not included in the Fifth Convention, they have no own agreement, with wage differences, job insecurity, overlapping with prevention and extinction work — with the logical risks that I will not repeat again, as some previous intervener has said — and without clarification of their own functions. I don't want to sink into many situations that conclude by manifesting discrimination and disturbing treatment of the German Government with this collective. I believe that we are aware that this conflict cannot remain indefinitely, because it substantially affects such a necessary service, as essential for Galicia, as is the service for the prevention and extinction of forest fires. That's why we need to address immediately those issues that affect the regulation of the working conditions of the staff in the service of the company Agrarios Galegos, S.A., facilitating the normal development of their working relationships in the company. And the issues are already on the table -- there is time -- such as nighttime, permits and licenses, the conditions of Seaga's staff in charge of preventing, monitoring and defending forest fires, stability -- unfortunately, we continue to wait for the Government as the service of forest fire prevention and extinction deteriorates every year, with Seaga, forest and environmental agents also with its difficult situation process, municipal brigades, and with an inactive government in the exercise of its powers in the prevention and extinction of forest fires and active, very active, in the media justifying their inoperation. I would tell the Counsellor, Mr. President, that there was no organized incendiary plot with which they intended to justify their ineffectiveness. The results of the prosecution investigation were negative. They no longer have explanation or alibi, it was a fictitious plot. Perhaps if the research focused on its competences in relation to the operation and management of the forest fire prevention and extinction service, the results would clarify where the real plot is. The Socialist Group has tabled two amendments, which I shall explain below, concerning the two initiatives, amendments to the two initiatives, of En Marea and of the Nationalist Block Galego, which we are debating in a cumulative way. Both amendments are identical in their proposed replacement. At the first point, we propose the reform of Decree 37/2006, from lists of the Galician Union, with a triple objective: firstly, to adapt it to the demands of temporary workers; secondly, to prevent the extinction of Seaga's workers; and thirdly, to make possible the barrage of other collectives who may be in the same situation. In the second point, we propose that the restructuring of the forest fire prevention and extinction service should take account of all those experienced in this work, subjecting them, in any case, to the procedures for access to public procurement provided for in law. At the third point, we intend to urgently bring together Seaga's business committee. And finally, at the fourth point, we propose the adoption of Seaga's staff in the Fifth Convention. Ladies and gentlemen, our objective is that the forest fire prevention and extinction device is permanently active without constraints. For now, the government's on the other side, it's not on this. We, from the Socialist Group, hope that the proposed groups will be sensitive to our initiative, with the initiative put forward. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u194	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Fernández. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Balsairos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. The Popular Group also sends a respectful greeting to the representatives of the Seaga company. It's a pity Mrs Matilde isn't here. I wanted to tell Mrs. Matilde Rodríguez not to miss her course and, above all, not to lie, because she lied. You're lying, you're lying. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Cercedo said and it's Sardinian, he said 200 and it's 170, he said that they disappeared by magic art and they were actually discharged from office. It's very good the title of the song that my companion Paula Prado said, but perhaps changing her name also came very well to the story of "Lola, in my torment." [[Laughter]] Ladies and gentlemen, the initiative before us was discussed last week in the Committee on the Environment, as Mr Rivas has said. And today, like last week and as always, since the People's Group, we're going to be clear, objective and rigorous. But let's not be mistaken, gentlemen. As we could see in this and in other previous initiatives, little or nothing has to do with the initiatives recorded with the exhibitions made here by the opposition groups. Mr. Rivas, "right-wing", "extreme right" -- the other day in the commission -- "question of ideology," "rural predators," "Ence agents" -- finally. Because, as we have said several times in this Parliament, the opposition does little to blame on the essentials of its initiatives. And why? Because the opposition only acts according to a strategy of noise-making, getting rid of the U.S. government and throwing all the blame on the PP. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the strategy of the opposition is to agree and present the same initiatives, practically copied from each other. The case is to put all opposition groups against the PP, the Galician Union and Feijóo. And what is the modus operandi? Very easy: where there is any initiative, complaint, information or demand — which can sometimes be perfectly fair — there the opposition Members are going to offer themselves to show them their unconditional support, to promise the impossible and offer to bring the issue to Parliament, inviting people or groups to the forum to see that evil, evil, is the PP; and to make them see that, if they ruled, none of this would happen, or that, if something had happened, it would be solved immediately, within fifteen or twenty days before it actually happened, as it is happening with the current Government of the State, a clear example of compliance, rigour and commitment. The matter is the very least, the regulations are all for them, the administrative processing that gives them the most, and the credit will be shown. The important thing, the truly important thing for you, opposition lords, is to sell your motorcycle to everyone, to give you the reason at all, even though you know perfectly that some demands are impossible to assume for not being in conformity with law, law or law. But that doesn't matter to you. The goal is to use these demands or demands from individuals or groups — we insist that many times they can be perfectly fair — to attack the PP, to blame him for all the evils, to look for the wearout of the board and to try to let his president get hurt. Of course, being in the opposition, they can expound everything that comes to their head, they can promise everything that happens to them, as they did when they were in the opposition in Madrid. But the Greeks are not fools and they know that one thing is preaching and another very different thing is giving wheat. And now they rule in Madrid. What am I gonna tell them? "Lola doesn't torment me." You might think, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that solving the problems of citizens and taking care of the future of cities is to portray yourself in the office tub by smoking a pure — "smoking hope"—. You might also think, opposition gentlemen, that you can cut down on the procedures and override the administrative nail clauses to buy a few floors to the alleged fines and collaborators with the money of the public budget on the taxes of all neighbors — "advisations seeing that for me I don't have"—. You might think, opposition lords, that ruling is to make ad hoc laws copying and taking initiatives that plagiarism of doctoral thesis and abusing the decree. Governor, ladies and gentlemen, it's a very different thing. To govern is to act with seriousness, responsibility and common sense. To govern is to be rigorous, fair and respectful. Rulership is not to promise what cannot be done. Rulership cannot be a priority for people over others. Rulership can't be shooting at everything that moves. Government can't be spending more than it has. To rule, ladies and gentlemen, is to work for society as a whole in equality, being more equal, equitable, democratic, and free. To govern means to comply with the laws, to observe the rules and to abide by the legal order that is common to all of us. And on your proposals we're going to make the following clarifications. First Punctuality: Who created so far away Seaga? The public company Seaga was created by the Bipartite — PSOE and BNG — when Galicia ruled in 2006. Second time: what are Seaga's functions and competences since its creation in accordance with its statutes? Seaga is an autonomous public commercial society, which acts in consideration of its own environment and technical service of the General Administration and of Galician public autonomics sector, given various actions, but especially highlights its intervention in the prevention and fight against forest fires. Third time: Can the V Single Workers' Convention of Galician Union be applied to Seaga staff? In view of the provisions of the Galician Public Employment Act, the staff of the autonomous public commercial companies are not governed by that law. Furthermore, there is a judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, dated 23 February this year, which states: "The Convention of the Galician Union is not applicable to the company for preventing it from its scope, which is limited to workers of the Union and its autonomous bodies, which is not the defendant, who has the legal nature of an autonomous public commercial society". Is it negotiating under Law 16/2010 of 17 December? It was and is the will of the Galician board to continue negotiations, but the main problem is that, once the other agreements have been reached, those included in the document signed on October 17, 2017, to improve the conditions, permits, licenses, conditions of work of fire personnel and employment stability were imposed a situation of blocking by the majority union, the IGC, who did not want to sign the constitution of follow-up commissions. It is not therefore the fault of the Union that it has not moved any further to improve the conditions of Seaga workers. Fourth: ask you to remove the protocol that requires you to perform prevention and extinction tasks during the high-risk months of fires. It's in the company's actions and objectives and its statutes. And these preventive jobs are fundamental to reducing the probability of propagation and significantly facilitating the extinction of forest fires. Fifth Punctuality: as for their recognition of the time spent in Seaga in accessing the Board's recruitment lists, the Public Service met on September 18th with delegates from the representative trade union centres in the autonomous public sector for a proposal to amend the decree. We affirm, therefore, that the Board is enabling the necessary provisions to modify the current regulations and that the experience of Seaga workers is barbarable at the time of their inclusion in the Galician Joint Recruitment Lists. Furthermore, there is a commitment on the part of the Board to maintain the volume of work for Seaga, since since this year, through the corresponding order — in this case for prevention tasks during the four-month period — it will be within the framework of the three-band agreement — Medium Rural, Fegamp and Seaga — for the maintenance of the biomas protection bands near the population nuclei. Since then, the German Government has undertaken to maintain this workload for Seaga. In any case, we insist that a negotiator procedure is already open with the workers' representatives, and they will have to wait for their results. Mr Rivas, perhaps, ladies and gentlemen of the BNG and the Tide of Podemos, could be very good for Seaga workers, among many others, those recommendations of the dictates of the Special Forestry and Fire Commission on the creation of a group of experts to improve the service device. Imagine these experts recommend that these people be integrated into that service.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u196	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u197	But did you tell the workers who voted against it? I'm done. I believe that, after the health counsellor's appearance, today it became very clear that, in the labour conflicts of public workers — health, education, justice, etc. — who is giving realistic solutions is the government of the PP. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u198	Thank you, Mr. Basketballs. For the author group of the proposal, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u199	Thank you, President. He missed another song to say goodbye to Mr. Balsairos. The truth is you've talked about respectful government, that of the PP. You here today made an intervention of everything less respectful. I don't know if it's cut out of comic or potion, but, above all, undocumented. Because, Mr Balsairos, to begin with, it was no longer created in 2006, since it was created in 1997 in Decree 266/1997, so certain statutes of the Society Anonymous Agrarian Services Galegos, Seaga, and signed by Mr Manuel Fraga Iribarne as President. [[Applause]] In 2006 there was a decree that modified the creation. [[Applause]] Then, first, you're done. Today, the workers and the workers present are missing. So much to say when they get here, so much to say that you're in service, that "all goes forward," but then all they do is not meet their demands. Besides, if you say that the board is working on the same points that we present today in this non-law proposal, you approve it. It's that simple. You spoke of the Fire Commission's dictation. Do you know how many times does the word "Seaga" appear in the recommendations of the approved recipe dictate to me by the Fire Commission? Sky! On 107 recommendations, zero times! In Marea you tabled amendments to this commission, which you did not approve. In Marea you have already asked me to apply a subrogation to Seaga workers and workers to put them in the public service against forest fires. In the amendments issued by En Marea to the dictation we ask to recognize the time spent by these workers in accessing the recruitment lists. But you voted against. That's what Seaga cares about you. I think it's all right! Mr Fernández, with regard to the amendments, we do not accept the amendments. Because we think most of the points you're presenting are already collected in our non-law proposition. There is some part that, to accept it, we would have to specify something else, as these collectives might be. Because we're afraid that, by covering up other collectives, companies like Natutechnia or like Tragsa — which have already seen worse things here — because they also come to score. And, therefore, for our part, nothing else. Mr. Balsairos, please reconsider — they are still in time — their vote. If Junta is working to improve the working conditions of Seaga's staff, this is the time to prove it. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u200	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Balsairos, I keep, at my 67 years of stopping frankism, post-franquism, fragusism and what is now, the same qualities you said of yourself. And I'm going to resort to something that was sung in the 1960s and many and early 1970s in Portugal—and I'm not going to say what was sung here. [[Applause]] In Portugal he sang: "You are always the same melody, Salazar and his democracy. With Caetano it's the same shit, they change flies, but the shit doesn't change." [[Applause]] With this, I would ask you... I'm so sorry that you weren't great, that you didn't talk about what brought us here. [[Murmurs.]] We're not talking about applying the V Convention. You must have read one, let's say, reform that has been made of our conclusions. What we're discussing here is whether or not they have the right to be treated with work and wages with a minimum of fairness and justice for Seaga's workers, yes or no? Because I'm going to remind you that Seaga's board of directors is a partner between the Farm Council and the Rural Council. He holds the presidency's right to the Conseilerie du Medio Rural. The managing director is an executive. They cut, therefore, those two joint government advisories or cod it all. They are the owners of money and political capacity. What they don't have is political capacity; money, there are. You use Seaga because it's useful to them, and they mistreat Seaga because it was created by the Bipartite, that government that created in the rural environment and in its future, in its modernity and usefulness...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u202	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u203	Don't be angry, please don't be angry! Don't be angry!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u204	There's a contradiction there, oh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u205	There's none.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u206	That's why it was nothing more, a little contradiction. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! That's it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u207	It's just they're apologizing. We're running out, don't be angry, caramba! Look, we've created... yes, of course, I'm going to do our profession of faith that we continue to keep forever and ever. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We believe in the modernity of the rural environment, in its usefulness to create jobs and wealth, fixing population, giving a turn to demographic ageing. And for that purpose it was created, and you took care of the disorder, mistreating, mistreating!, its workers and workers, keeping them in precarious working and wage conditions and offensive by comparison in wage and labor cohabitation. Get out, please, do it or please! They left that deaf rage that still stirs, after nine years, and apply the common sense to the case. I don't think it's much to ask, does it? We do not accept the Socialist Party's amendment either. We're sorry, but more than nothing is because it's been the same. That's to say in other words the same thing. And therefore we support En Marea's GNP. And, of course, we wish the People's Party that, in their negotiations to restructure the extinction service without counting on the dictates, without counting on the commission of wise men who sold us to see if we reached a consensus — who are looking for something that we cannot consent to from the BNG because it's all they put into the dictation, it's a lie, and you're going to a rural wood-producing environment... [[An honourable Member: No!]] Ence! He's there, Ence with his apostolic blessing, urbi et orb! Continue in that blessing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-25-DSPG082.u208	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good afternoon.
