ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u1	Good morning. Let us resume the session with the seventh item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for oral answer by the President of the Council of Galicia. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the information that the Government is offering regarding the state of public health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u2	Whenever you want. Give a voice to Mrs. Pontón's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u3	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Feijóo, these are many times we have denounced the cruel policy of the People's Party's cuts, and I wonder, what else has to happen to leave behind that soulless policy that puts people at risk and cares about people's health? Because the cuts kill him, Mr. Feijóo. We just saw him dramatically in the events that happened at the Road CAP on August 4, that sad day when José Manuel Brey passed away in the corridors of an emergency center where there were no doctors. And I want to take advantage to send all the affection and solidarity to your family and especially to the representative who is listening to us from this rostrum. And I ask you what kind of health policy does when in Galicia in 2018 a person dies in an emergency service where there was no medical personnel to attend. What kind of health policy does he do when the manager in that health area, Eloína Núñez — his cousin — thinks he can continue on vacations as if this wasn't important? What does your health policy do when your health adviser considers that, since this is nothing serious, it doesn't even have to come to Parliament? The cuts have consequences, and you mind when you boast that you're doing more with less, because, in fact, contrary to what's happening, it's that cuts and privatizations have serious consequences. There is the massification of consultations, the reduction of professionals; there is the precarious work, up to exhaustion, of many doctors and doctors; there are these waiting lists, that they keep growing and that now there is also a waiting list to go to primary care — up to eleven days of waiting list to go to the head doctor—. And there we also have those 100,000 Galicians who don't take drugs they need because they can't afford them. And all this deterioration, all this reality, all this suffering cannot be covered with advertising and propaganda, Mr. Feijóo. That's why we propose to you is a change of direction, and to begin with, we make two proposals to you. First, a primary care improvement plan, to ensure that there are at least two full teams in the CAP that have medical and nursing staff. Never more an emergency death for lack of doctors, Mr. Feijóo! And secondly, the health counsellor ceases, seize the crisis of government and ceases Mr. Almuína; he was not up to it. It shows that you can be and that this ceases is the first step of a 180-degree shift in the health policy of the Union, where people's life and health are the first. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Like the BNG spokesman, I too, as is logical, repeat the Government's condolences and my people's condolences to José Manuel Brea Brey's family. And I can assure this family that, if there's any doubt about how public services worked, we'll know exactly the content and scope of these services, because for weeks now, a medical inspection file, with an instructor, has only one objective: to clarify whether there was any irregularity or whether there was any problem in attention as a result of the road CAP organization. I want to be respectful not only of the family — like all the families of Galicia — and I want to be respectful of this Parliament too, because there is a fellow of you who asks exactly what happened that day at the Road CAP. You don't ask about it and, therefore, if you will allow me, simply by parliamentary courtesy, to focus on the road matter, I will do it when I answer the spokesperson for En Marea. I understand, Mrs Pontón, that you are competing for everything; now, I have nothing more to do than answer this Parliament according to what each group asks. Mrs Pontón, I've been saying what I've been saying since I've been managing public health services -- and for decades now. First, we have a very good public health. It's not my opinion, it's the opinion of most of the Greeks. I recognize, as in all organizations -- in the Greek public health they work more than 40,000 people -- that everything is likely to improve, and that's why one of the objectives of this government since it took possession is to improve public health. And I can assure you that, with less money than you used to handle when you were in the government, today we have better public health from every perspective — from the perspective of professionals, budget, doctors, technology, infrastructure — than when you ruled. And thirdly, Your Honor, I don't think it is justifiable that you speak here of serious deterioration of public health, especially because you have been supporting a government which, with much more money than this government, has done much less for public health than the Government than I am part of. Your Honor, I said that the Greeks value public health care more than ever in Galicia, and I refer myself to the Ministry's data, to the latest published in May. Ever since the year 2002, where this barometer is made, the Greeks have had a better concept of public health than they currently have. I say, Your Honor, that in the same official barometer of the Ministry of Health, the Greeks value primary care better than the average of the Spaniards and the Greeks value emergency care better than the average of the Spaniards. I suppose, as a Galician, you should be interested in this data; unfortunately, as a nationalist, what happens in Galicia only half-interests you. Your Honor, today we spend 252 million euros more, we invest in public health, that when there were two billion euros more budget; that is, the budget for public health today is greater than ever. During the economic crisis, Your Honor, we raised the staff to more than a thousand five hundred professionals. The percentage of budgets we spend on public health is the highest in the history of the Autonomous Community, 40.7%. Today we have more staff, we have 37% more surgeons, we do twice as many surgical interventions as we did in major outpatient surgery...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u7	...when you ruled. Your Honor, today we've been waiting for the least since there's records of the surgical waiting list in Galicia. Your Honor, we've never invested so much before, we've never had so many professionals before, we've never done so many hospitals before, and we've never expanded more health centers before. Now, if you want to insist, I'm telling you: no trap or card, medical inspection, start of an information file, and we'll get to know what the Medical Inspectorate tells us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u9	I suppose, Your Honor, you won't doubt the Health Inspectorate. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u11	Mr. Feijóo, a repeated lie 1,000 times remains a lie, and you come here alone and exclusively to make a self-bomb and propaganda to try to cover up the reality of such serious deterioration that is occurring in our health. Look if it's serious that the Greeks and the Greeks what they think is that we have the third worst health in the whole state; so I don't see the level of satisfaction you're talking about. Look at the serious situation that you have in the trade unions, the four medical schools in Galicia, the workers and health workers standing in the war, reporting the cuts, the precariousness, the lack of staff and the lack of means. So, Mr. Feijóo, stop living in that imaginary world, in that parallel reality that creates through the public media and puts his feet on the earth, because what is happening in this country is very serious. And you come here and hurry up with absolute indolence a case that is a serious irregularity. Don't you think it's very serious, Mr. Feijóo, that in an emergency center where there had to be two doctors there was only one? It's just that this situation is something that doesn't happen on time at the Road CAP, is that it's a situation that's being repeated throughout this summer. Because you know it, Mr. Almuña knows it. They have complaints from workers and workers about how, systematically, the cuts and privatizations you drive, instead of hiring the two doctors who were obliged to hire, they're only hiring one. And in the end, we see how those cuts and that policy of reasoning about the important, that is people's health, have consequences. So, Mr. Feijóo, do you think that such a subject can be released as if this was nothing important and with the indolence that you have shown today and that you have demonstrated the entire team of the Health Council after this situation? We made two proposals to him, he didn't tell us anything at all. Are you going to push a health improvement plan in primary care? Yes or no? Will you ensure that there are always two complete medical teams? Yes or no? Because, look, the cut in primary care is brutal, two billion euros less since you rule. And today it's still spending 234 million euros less than there was in 2009. So stop making juggles and torture reality and statistics and take on what's going on. And a second question: do you want to, are you or are you not willing to stop Mr. Almuña? Take advantage of the Government's remodeling. And finally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u12	Quiet, please. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u13	And finally — if I am left by the Members and Members of the People's Party —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u14	Quiet, please. And that's it, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u15	And finally, we believe that such a subject must also be investigated in the Galician Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u16	Chist!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u17	Are you prepared or not to investigate this case and the consequences of cuts in public health?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u19	Mrs. Pontón, but why do you always manipulate, even the statement of your question? There's a question in the House posed by En Marea about what happened at the Road CAP. What do you want? Ask Mr. de En Marea the question? Or does it just pretend to be a little respectful of the agenda? If you want to ask about the road CAP, ask; if you want to manipulate Parliament, of course, don't tell me about it; don't count on me to manipulate the opinions of the Greeks, Your Honor. The view of the Greeks in that health barometer that just came out is the best opinion since 2002. You were in the Government in the years 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, and why did you have an opinion of the Germans worse than now? Mrs. Pontón, why do you hide, for example, that the rating of the Greeks in primary care when they left the Government was 4% worse than the rating that the Greeks now have? Why does it hide, for example, that in external consultations or in primary care, or even in emergencies, the Greek emergencies in 2009 — when you left the Government — were positively valued by 78%? Today it's 84.7%; that is, 6% more Greeks positively value current emergencies. Mrs. Pontón, I'm already used to manipulations — all here. It is recalled when we passed the minimum-time warranty decree, which was said to favour the private. As a result, we guarantee the minimum hours of attention to citizens; there are 7,269 beneficiaries; none of them went to private, 100% to the public sector. When you were in the government, you spent 5.7% more on concerts, and now you're talking about privatization, manipulation and neglect? Look, Your Honor, you've even been told in this House that there were no cataracts, no fimosis, no otorrine. I know it wasn't you, it was someone who knows a lot about public health. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As a result, 486 cataracts, 974 urology interventions and 211 otorrin were performed in this hospital. This Parliament is a witness that we were even said to be charged for sleeping in accompanying seats in Vigo. Your Honor, here you are in the minutes. [[Murmurs.]] There's a political party that's introduced to the elections saying that we're going to charge for consultations and sleep and eat in hospitals. They even printed those tips during the election campaign. Mrs. Pontón, stop manipulating, respect what the Health Inspectorate says in connection with this investigation. What I'm telling you, Your Honor, is that we've been carrying all the legislation modifying and improving primary care. Despite having less money than ever before, despite having to pay a debt of two billion euros left in puppies, we opened 49 health centers, Your Honor, during these previous legislations and now we're opening twenty new centers more primary care. Your Honor, we have more primary care doctors than ever. Now I will answer what happened on the Road at that moment and in that place. Your Honor, we have 69 primary care centers between the built and the bidders and the project. Look, Your Honor, what you can say about public health, we're going to make it more or less similar to what I can say. The important thing is what the Greeks say, and the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u21	...when you consult them, they say that today there is better public health than when you rule; but they say more: that today we have the best public health since there are surveys in the Ministry of Health. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u22	Next question. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of En Marea, on the views of the Government of Greece regarding the event at the Continued Road Care Point in August 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u23	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, as you don't see Galician TV, we know you don't know what's going on in your own country's day-to-day. So it's not much to remember that what happened at the Road CAP on August 4th was that a person went to the Emergency Service and, after more than an hour of waiting without health care, died. The only medical team there was not at that moment in the emergency, was making a way out. It was still another hour to come back, with more than two hours of emergency care without health care. José Manuel Rey Brea is not a number, just like you do, but it's a name and it's a person. He's a person who came to an emergency in a civilized country, socially advanced in theory, to address the symptoms of a disease he had. And after an hour without health care he died from an indisposition, without health care, when he had to speak, because he was in the place where he had to. In Galicia this summer a person died in a public hospital in Galicia because of a lack of health personnel. Don't you put this situation down? We didn't hear him talk about it. Look, the event is immoral. It's immoral that Sergas doesn't have enough human resources put in the service of citizenship so these things don't happen. But it's also illegal. It's illegal because there's an order from the Council on June 4, 2008, where it's established that CAPs have to have a functional plan of activity, a functional plan that has to determine at least two things: the first one, the number of medical equipment that has to be available at any moment; and the second one, how to cover unpredictable casualties. Well, the Road CAP had this document, it had this document approved correctly, and this document predicted that Saturday afternoon there had to be two medical teams and there was nothing else. [[Mr. Villares Naveira shows a document.]] And for that reason, because there was only one, José Manuel couldn't be cared for, and that's why he died waiting for a medical team that wasn't there, because he was breaking the law by Sergas. Sergas, with Mr. Counsellor—not yet dismissed—in front of him, had the indecency to say that they tried to solve the issue but that there were no doctors available. You're shielding the wrong payer. Because the order of June 4, 2008 also provides for the shortening of these systems by means of a system of lists of availability in case of unforeseeable casualties; here is Article 5 itself. Where were you guys activating all this? It's easy to activate, it only requires the agencies to comply with that article 5. But they didn't. And why? Behind, once again, the bloody cuts of the Galician Health Board, the damned cuts that are causing so much suffering to the population, the bloody cuts that cause there to be no available health personnel where they have to be, as a result of their policies. Look, we know that surely the first thing you will do here, apart from transferring condolences, is to recognize that, in fact, you feel drowsy and that, therefore, you will ask forgiveness not only for the family but for all the users of Sergas who are suffering this situation, who have been without pediatric this summer, who have seen in every CAP in the country as it is happening in the Road CAP. But look, in politics asking forgiveness is rectification. So we ask you to immediately rectify your health-cutting policy so that this shame will never happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u25	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I repeat — it is now up to us — that there are some in Parliament that we are trying to respect Parliament, Mr Spokesman of Marea. I know that doesn't matter to you, but you ask me about the road CAP and I'm going to answer the road CAP. You start talking about the Road and Television CAP. Of course, you always have a lot of interest in television. They've got a private TV in their game and they're now running Spanish Radiotelevision. You say I don't see Gaga Television. It's true, but I read what's said on Gallega TV whenever I can. You have time to have private televisions in the party and to manage other public televisions, but that's right, Your Honor, the respect you have for the Road. [[Murmurs.]] Let's go to the Road. First of all, Your Honor, what have we done? Open an investigation. You know that the Medical Inspectorate has all the competences to open any kind of research. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was the first thing we did, without waiting for you to remind us of our commitments. We would not be being fair — you too — on this particular matter, considering that this is the norm and disqualifying the entire public health system. I'm going to give you two data about what happened a few days after the road CAP. First, 476 people were dealt with on the night of August 12 to August 13 as a result of the Marisquin accident. And that same health system that you say is cut made one of the greatest achievements of simultaneous health care on a weekend, in August 2018 in Galicia; that same system of what you say is cut. [[Applause]] Your Honor, now that in your party you know a lot about how people are treated in hospitals, even premature, you should know what the Chief of Premature Service has just said in the Coruña Hospital, who says that up to 100 people attend a premature baby when there is a need in the Coruña hospital. A little respect for Galician health and a little respect for public health and its professionals, Lord of the Tides. [[Applause]] Your Honor, what happened? At 19.05 a.m. on August 4 a.m. there is a patient displaced with advanced chronic disease that adheres to the Road CAP. At that time, the CAP health personnel returned to carry out, the requirement of 061 and the Civil Guard proposal, an emergency transfer to Santiago hospital. And I can't advance the contents or the scope of that requirement. A little respect for the facts, a little respect for fulfilling the mandates of the health care protocols and fulfilling the Civil Guard's proposals. An exceptional transfer was made to an exceptional assumption, as provided for in the assistance protocols. And, therefore, on an exceptional assumption, the doctor and the nurse of that CAP had to get away from the CAP. Automatically, when that happens, the 061 coordinates the health care of the continuing care points, as happened in the CAP, and, when this person is introduced, the 061 is automatically contacted and the staff is already returning to the Road Continued Care Point and, within ten minutes of receiving that warning, the staff was attending that person's Road CAP. Why do you skip that data? Why do you skip that data? Why don't you tell the Greeks why there wasn't a doctor and a nurse at that time in the CAP? That's you and your conscience. Your Honor, there you are and your conscience. One hundred thousand emergencies attended in the last eight years at the Road CAP, one hundred thousand, thirty daily emergencies at the Road CAP and now it turns out that this continuing point of attention works incorrectly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u28	And now you come to tell me why there weren't two doctors after we explained it. Your Honor, there was a doctor contacted to be two that Saturday. That doctor, as a result that he was previously contacted — theoretically, we will see what the research says — went to another place and not to the Road CAP. It was automatically during that day that he tried to hire another doctor and it was not possible and the next day the two doctors were already in the Road CAP. Your Honor, I am deeply sorry about the road, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u29	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u30	The family is absolutely right to demand justice; it is fair. What I'm not willing here is to say things that are a lie, to manipulate reality and to say that the road professionals were not doing their duty; they were doing their duty. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u32	Mr. President of the Union, your lack of elegance when talking about premature children gives evidence of your lack of arguments in answering this question. It's absolutely unacceptable, but, as you say, it also stays there in its own hemero library. Let's talk about what we came to talk about. Look, when you were talking about the Civil Guard, did the Civil Guard forbid there was a second medical team at the Road CAP? Did the Civil Guard forbid them to comply with the law? Did the Civil Guard forbid them to apply the June 4, 2008 Order? Did the Civil Guard forbid them to apply the functional plan that was in force? You didn't explain why there wasn't that second medical team. That second medical team was compliance with the rule and you broke the law, all by an unfair cutting policy that's causing this suffering to the population, unnecessary suffering and illegal, because they're jumping to their own regulations. You're here to tell us that there was a person in contact who didn't want to... No, no, no, no. See, Article 5 of this order solves those problems by using the availability lists. If the agencies were deligent in planning all this work, because apart from Sergas he recognized that it was a generalized situation all summer, for more reason yet; if it is generalized, there is more margin to schedule what they call, besides, unpredictable absences. With which, how will you not be able to have instruments for that resolution? Here we go. What happens is that, under trying to blame management, there's an obvious manipulation of the causes. The reason is that you don't want to spend on professional guards, the reason is that you precarve your working conditions, the reason is that you don't want to invest, not spend, invest in people's health, and that's unacceptable to us. The question I ask you is, did you make up for this savings, this disgust for the family and for the whole of Greek society? If not, correct. I'll make you two proposals. The first of them — and will have our support to carry it out — will you make a credit change for this year to increase public health system budgets to provide personal means, health personnel, Greek public hospitals, to achieve dignified working conditions, those decent working conditions that demand, among others, the collective of the CAPs on the foot of war, that claim dignified working conditions and something as revolutionary as the fulfilment of Sergas' own regulations. And secondly, and in relation to the success of the Road CAP, we go to a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Let's look into the causes, because you don't have that clear, and you obviously haven't read your own decrees and orders approved by the Health Council, and from there on, let's make a reform proposal so that this doesn't happen again. It could happen for two reasons: because you were breaking the law or because the law is wrong. Because if the law of course allows people to die in hospitals for lack of health care, that law has to change it, and it has to be changed. Meditate, Mr. President, correct and stop causing this suffering to the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u33	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u34	Thank you very much. But let me read what your own party says about premature and health care. But does this sound wrong to you? [[Murmurs.]] Do you think it's wrong that someone in your party who has a little bit more brains that you can value the attention of premature people in public health? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Protests.]] Mr. Villares, listen... listen to what I'm going to tell you, that I've heard all the barbarities that you just said: that we're decreasing our staff and we're betting on the decrease of the road staff that day and that we don't care about that result. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And now it turns out that there are some Members who find it wrong to say what we are saying. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I just said we always had two doctors on the Road on weekends, Saturday evenings and Sundays. I just said I was a doctor alerted. I just said that this doctor understood that he was destined to another point of continuous attention and went there. I just said that the services immediately tried to hire another doctor for that day. I just said it couldn't be done, and the next day there was the second doctor on the road. I just said there's always two doctors on weekends. And you come here to manipulate again and again and again, simply deteriorating public health, simply injuring what we're doing. [[Applause]] Sir, I can't admit it, I can't admit it. But, ladies and gentlemen, every day the professionals of the continuing attention points attend four thousand people a day on average, four thousand people a day on average. And now it turns out that everything you do is wrong? The resolution of the continued attention points is 91%, 91% of the patients attending the hospital are no longer going to hospitals. We have a patient with severe chronic problems, and isn't it worth telling you that we're at the disposal of the family, that the family has every right to know what happened and that this research is on the move and it's not moving back? Isn't that worth it? Isn't it just worth picking up and adding up the professionals in Galicia and the professionals now? And the result is that there are 1,500 more professionals working in health care. You're not worth it, Your Honor, anything but saying that we have more primary care doctors than ever, more family resident doctors than ever? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Isn't it good for you to be proposing to the Ministry of Health to increase pediatricians and just tell us once again that they won't let us train more pediatricians in Galicia? But, Mr. Villares, I don't really ask you to be a fair judge anymore, but you're not even a fair citizen. You don't have the slightest sensitivity to hear what we're saying and saying that this family has the right to know everything that happened, and that we will provide information, not through the Health Administration, but through the Health Inspectorate, of everything that happened. What are we doing on the road, Your Honor? Making a new health center. But not as a result of what happened on Saturday, but as a result that the Road needs a new health center, which is in work and which means an investment of 4.6 million euros. Does that sound like a minimum commitment to what we're doing on the Road? But, Mr. Villares, I just told you... leave the demagogy, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But if this is a Parliament, which is not an assembly of which you... No, no, yes, I understand your assemblies are more fun. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But, really, this is a Parliament. And so, Your Honor, we know that for this family this matter needs to be dealt with strictly. You have the commitment of the Health Administration to be treated with rigour. But, of course, I'm going to treat healthcare professionals with rigour, the people who were at the point of constant attention on the Road with rigor, and we're going to go on rigorously, because there's one thing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u36	...which is clear, Your Honor: public health in Galicia is not from Mareas or anyone else, public health is from the Greeks and, while being president of the Greeks, health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u38	...public will be my first priority. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, although I understood it and it was in colloquial tone, we all have the same brain. Everyone, everyone, we all have the same brain. [[Murmurs.]] I understand from a colloquial point of view what is a debate about a political confrontation within Parliament. No, no... that's how I understood it, and so did the president, and so it's understood. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Please, please, let's not complicate something that's pretty simple. No, please. No, I don't... I know very well what he said and I know how far I should go... and, besides, I think with the explanation I gave you, it's all controlled. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Perfect. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding residential care to older persons and dependents
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u40	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u41	Yes, good morning. I also want to begin by expressing my condolences to the deceased's family at the Road CAP, which is listening to us. But today I wanted to ask, as it is on the agenda, about residence policy. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, the number of older people continues to rise in Galicia. The forecasts are that in the next few years there will be twenty-five thousand more people over the age of 64, and attention to these older people remains one of the greatest concerns for them and their families. You assume your policies in this field. The councillor will surely leave them in the coming days as advisor, but in any case, he boasts of his policies in this field. He assumed, a few months ago, the degree of coverage of teleassistation, home help, in March of this year. But the data recently published by the Galego Institute of Statistics, which depends on its Government, tells us that there are 30,000 home help seekers who do not have access to it and there are twelve thousand people who, needing teleassistation, do not have access to it either. And you'll tell me -- that's what you normally say -- they've improved figures in absolute terms since I'm president. In fact, with a law of dependence, of progressive application, which should be completed in 2015, because if you don't improve the figures, you have to look very seriously. But, above all, the deficit — and I want to focus the question there — is in the residential squares. The biggest deficit is in the public residential squares for older and dependents, in public residential squares financed by the Autonomous Community. This capital deficit in comparison with other autonomous communities causes trouble, causes frustration, causes economic difficulties to many people. In this deficit comes the private initiative, which benefits from a situation where there is too much demand on supply and can therefore rise prices. And this ends up causing distress over the financial situation of many families, who see with good eyes that their relatives can live longer, but they see the difficulties that often exist to cope with those payments. And recently, in July, the Board of Auditors submitted a report to this Parliament and look at what it tells us. He tells us that the average time limit for the recognition of the right to a residence square is 453 days for the Galician Union, and that if we add to this the average waiting time, we're going over half the six hundred days. It also tells us — and I will quote from time to time — that " throughout the period analyzed the Council has not developed any investment plans in residential centres for adults and dependents. There are no plans for the construction of new centres in this period." And it also tells us that, as a result, in the last five years, from 2011 to 2016, the number of squares has not increased in their own centers, and little or nothing can boast of this matter in the last year and a half, and even in the concerted squares only increased by 240. That's what the Board of Auditors tells us, which is an evolution that goes very behind the demand itself, because the number of older people — I say — continues to increase. That's why we have to reiterate to you that you have to make an effort, a realistic but accurate and calendar effort. We told him six months ago, we made more proposals. I'm going to focus on his words. At that point, you said, before the end of this year, seven new residential centres will be auctioned in the urban areas of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u43	We want him to do it now, because there's less time left and we don't see any steps taken in that direction. There would be nine hundred additional squares. And, if you want to be credible to the elders, you have to do it now, Mr. Feijóo, you can't delay it any longer. The Galician Union is paying attention to the elders, but reality runs and, therefore, they are gradually going beyond demands and needs. And use all available resources, everyone. Don't give up on anyone, because the older ones need it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u44	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u45	Your Honor, we agree with two statements. The first one is that the biggest ones must be the great concern of a government, because thanks to the greatest ones we have the public health and public education we have. And the second is that we have to use all the resources, Your Honor; we are in that, I can assure you. I'm sure I'll give you some information that will reassure you. What's surprising, Your Honor, is that when you talk about statistics from the Galego Institute of Statistics, don't tell the House what the Galego Institute of Statistics measured. I didn't measure the pending ones of the dependency, no. No, no, you know I didn't measure that. What the Galego Institute of Statistics measured was those Greeks, whether they had asked for dependence, whether they thought they were in a supposition of dependence, which is quite different, Your Honor. We can barely meet a person who does not claim the benefit. That's what the Galego Institute of Statistics measured. To see you have a government that doesn't conceal any data and even measures those we don't even know. Mr. Leicega, to you, who is a serious economist and a serious politician, that omission, I think it doesn't do you any good, firstly, because you don't need it and, secondly, if it was a lapse, I fear, Your Honor, that those lapses must be solved beforehand. You know there's more resources than ever before for the attention of the elders. When we get to the government, 276 million; now, 413. If you do, we're raising the budget by 50%. You know there's a record of attention to dependents in Galicia: fourteen thousand when we get to the Government; 56,974 today; that is, four times more. The ratio of care coverage to dependents in Galicia exceeds the national average. In Galicia, 85%, seven points more than the average of Spain. Purpose of legislation: 60,000 dependents attended. I've already told you, Your Honor, that we're going to do this year; that is, in the middle of the legislation, we're going to meet the number of dependents we had for the whole legislation: 60 thousand. [[Applause]] Your Honor, you speak of teleassistation and help in the home. I omitted a data. We have nothing more and nothing less than 7,000 beneficiaries in teleassisted and there is no waiting list. And in help in the home we go from two thousand seven hundred to twenty-one thousand five hundred and there's no waiting list. I think that's to be positively valued. There's no waiting list in the home help and teleassisted is the first time in Galicia. Let's go to the squares, Mr. Leicega. In daytime centers, 223% more; from 983 to 3.177, 223% more. And in residences 40% more; from five thousand five hundred squares to seven thousand eight hundred. Do you think it's a 40% increase with less money than you used to handle? Well, by the end of this year, we're going to have 8,000 public squares. And by the way, about the residences, I agree with you: we are committed to tendering them this year. Look, in Santiago, I hope — because to make residences, as you know — that on September 17 we can sign the land assignment agreement. In Ferrol, we are awaiting the Ferrol Town Hall; you know what happens in the Ferrol Town Hall, look at what happens to the Socialist Party in Ferrol, imagine how the Town Hall works. In the Coruña we are awaiting the signing of the assignment. [[Murmurs.]] In Ourense, as the general plan fell, we have to go to an autonomous law to get the assignment. You don't laugh, you've already started this path of another county where all things are always doing very well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, in Vigo and Pontevedra the lands are ours; of course, we will bid. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, don't worry: you will have met the answer of the seven centers and the nine hundred squares this year. It was the engagement, Mr. Leicega...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u47	...and the commitments, Mr. Leiceaga, must be fulfilled. But I think, despite what we have left, that I don't say we don't stay, we've done much more than we have left. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u48	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u49	No, some of us have the brain that we have, but, in any case, I stand up very clearly and strongly for the work of the Galego Institute of Statistics, I suppose you too, and, when you ask the Greeks for their needs, you're reflecting what they really demand, you're not reflecting anything strange. And so what the Galego Institute of Statistics says is that there are 30,000 dependents who need home help and do not receive it, twelve thousand who are in the same situation in teleassisted, seventeen thousand six hundred in specialized health care, 12,323 in day care centers, six thousand three hundred in home food, 864 in breathing programs and so on, up to a total of one hundred and seventeen thousand. [[Applause]] That's why that target of 60,000 people is very good. But look, you've got almost twice as much to take care of. And we're not talking here about residences. The target of 60,000 people is an advance. As I've already told you, a progressive implementation law leads to the progressive fulfilment of the objectives, but it is far below the requirements. And the residences you say, they have to be the last resort. We agree with this, of course. But we all also know that they are necessary. And the Board of Auditors says: "I am the offer of public squares clearly insufficient". We've been saying this year and a half ago and the Board of Auditors makes this statement after making a comparative analysis with other autonomous communities, public squares or funded squares. Look, you were talking to me now about seven thousand peaks. Well, the last data we have is that it's already reached 8,000 in Galicia. But let's see: you, six months ago, told us that there were eleven thousand five hundred and that there was an increase of 60% -- 59 percent, exactly -- You have to check those numbers, because right now you've just checked them down, which strongly calls my attention. Explain the schedule for building new residences. Do you agree, as you said in March, that the seven public residences will be bided this year or not? That's what you have to tell us, because that announcement has already been repeated over the past six years; six years repeatedly announcing that these new residences will be auctioned, and the result is that we are the same as before. Look: in his years of government he did not incorporate any own management center, sky!, sky!, and incorporated only two concerted centers, with 240 squares. That's your balance so far in residential politics. And I've told him about the resources before, because, as you give up that tenth of the debt...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u51	...that is a little over sixty million euros, could you also tell me how many public residence squares can be made with sixty million euros? Sixty? Seventy? How many could we be talking about? Why don't you use all the available resources that Europe says are available to care for our elders?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u53	And follow the recommendations of the Board of Auditors. It would be better for him to pay attention to the elders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u54	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close this question, President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u55	Mr. Leicega, of course, I respect the Galego Institute of Statistics; not only respect, but it depends on the councilman of the Fairy and is working with absolute rigour. What I repeat you're hiding is that this statistic is about people who are considered dependent, have asked for or not their recognition as such. So, Your Honor, that's what we try to know: if there are people who don't ask and can be on the assumption, and we invite all people who believe they're in that supposed to ask. [[Murmurs.]] We have reduced the number of people on the waiting list, yes; of the twenty-five thousand registered less than three years ago there are now 9,935; that is, we have decreased by fifteen thousand. And do we have the best data from the Spanish set? Yes. The average number of people on the waiting list in Galicia is 14.8%, and in Spain, 22.6%. But it's not our data, it's Ministry data. Mr. Leicega, when we say that we increase 223% of the squares in the day centers and 40% of the squares in the residences, from 5,500 to 7,820 — and you have just said that we are already in eight thousand — is that we are increasing above 40% with years of two billion euros less each year's budget. And don't get the numbers wrong. The total number of day centers, alzeimer centers, residences and squares with disabilities has increased in Galicia by 52% since we reached the government. By the way, he says there's no more squares and we're not opening up. What's going on? That when a municipality financed by the Galician Union builds a residence and operates the residence, aren't these squares? It happens that Vilardevós, Arteixo, Baleira, Paradela, Redondola and Foz, who are now opening these residence squares financed by the Autonomous Community, aren't they squares? What happens is that the thousand bonds we're giving to the thousand Greeks who ask for a bonus to go to a residence, aren't those squares? [[Murmurs.]] The first time in Galicia we're going to open residences, houses of the eldest in the villages, Mr. Leicega, in the villages, where ten or fifteen families live, for the first time. Just as we opened the nesting houses -- and we've been sixty -- we're going to open thirty of the largest houses in the villages, Mr. Leicega, in places where no one wakes up. [[Applause]] That's where we're going to open those squares, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] You're telling me that we've committed seven new residences for six years. But, Your Honor, you went to the election program for the year 2016! How are you going to do six years? No, no, no, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I understand that maybe it was in the Bipartite election program, although what I can assure you is that they weren't done. In the election program of the People's Party of Galicia is included in 2016. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Reiterate: Santiago, Ferrol, The Coruña and Ourense, pending to sound properly; and Vigo and Pontevedra, lands of public ownership; and in Lugo, Your Honor, there is a piece of state ownership; and we hope to be able to formalize and bid these residences. [[Murmurs.]] I just told you: Mr. Leicega, there have never been as many dependents cared for as now. There are four times more dependents attended than in 2009, there are 44% more public squares for homes of older than in 2009. We are above the average of the other autonomous communities. There are more professional services than in all of Spain. There's no waiting list for home help, and if there is, it's because the county doesn't process it, because they have hundreds of credits from Greek municipalities that don't consume them. Your Honor, there are objectives in the legislation and we will meet the objectives of the legislation. I know, Your Honor, that everything can be done better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u57	Let them ask you, that with two billion euros, they had 52% less public squares. What if I can assure you, Your Honor, is that, if you can take me a single year -- and look at that we have almost forty autonomy -- recently, with socialist policies, in any council or in any parliament, better than the social policies of the Galician Union, we are willing to copy them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Mr. Villares Naveira asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Villares? What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u59	With regard to the debate that has just taken place, I suggest that you make two corrections to Mr Núñez. The first one, on the brain question; and the second one, on the premature. We think that, if you don't, if you're creating a precedent on the excess of what it is to be parliamentary decoration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u60	That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u61	And, therefore, we recommend it, because, if not, a precedent and a standard was created here for the beginning of this political course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u62	Mr. Villares...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u63	...which is absolutely regrettable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u65	Sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u66	Mr. Villares...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u67	Sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u68	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u69	So I expect the correction from you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u70	I think I've expressed myself before what I had to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u71	Yes, but it's expressed now, that I'm formally asking you and the micro-open.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u72	No, no, no, I've said it before, and I think once you say it, it's understood perfectly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u73	These are two themes that should be excluded because they are notoriously beyond the decoration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u74	The political confrontation here, I can distinguish between... [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, Mr. Villares, I'm talking now. Excuse me a moment!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u75	Allusions to one...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u76	I'm sorry. No, your time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u77	Allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u78	Sorry, you've finished your shift. The role of a president is to know how to distinguish well where an insult is and where it is not an insult. Yes, yes, perfectly. [[Murmurs.]] That's all I know! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I went to college, eh! [[Murmurs.]] I'm the one who went to college and the university went through me. The story is gone! [[Murmurs.]] The story is gone! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Proposals not of law. Let's go to them. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] University. Mr. Losada, like you, the same. And you're no longer a college student than I am. Make it clear! [[Murmurs.]] Although we're both rural. That's it! Proposals not of law. Let's go. [[Murmurs.]] Please! It's just, let's go! There's an excessive capillary, let's go! There's the hairs on the skin! [[Murmurs.]] Please, no, that's not an insult! [[Murmurs.]] The university of life, best! [[Murmurs.]] That's it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Please, let's start with non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members, on the implementation by the Galician Council of the proposals of the Ombudsman's report on the care of persons with mental illness
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u79	This motion for a non-legislative amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Bloc of Wales, the Parliamentary Group on the Environment and the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u80	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u81	Good morning. Thank you, President. I don't know if he went to Harvard or Aravaca...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u82	Santiago's.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u83	Santiago's? Good university, yes sir, good university! Well, good morning. We wanted to have since... if possible... we know that the President has special sensitivity to the question we're going to deal with. [[Murmurs.]] We wanted to deal with a health issue today. The truth is that it is a full and well-known presence of health care and the assessment of the health system. In addition, I would like to make it quite stricter and respect that has been dealt with by some of the debates in the last few days, not what we have had in recent days, but what we have just attended. And the truth is because it's a matter of concern. We are fully aware from our group that the subject we are dealing with has a sensitivity that all Members present and Members present will know how to understand, and in what we are working on the issue of health in this Parliament and that we know why we know the subject, and tell me that all the voices and voices in this area know it fully and are fully identified and aware of the subject, but surely many others too, and in this sense I would like to raise some things with the cruelty with which they are, because we often deal with very hard issues, to try to empathize a little with the people concerned and with the situation of what we are talking about and of what we are dealing with. And for that I just wanted to read a report, which focuses on this debate, which is a report made by a maximum institution on how the national institution of the Ombudsman is, and, in particular, a body called — and I think the name is important — the National Mechanism for Prevention of Torture, which is a difficult word and a hard word, and that is why we believe it is necessary to empathize with this situation. I'm going to read some questions that have to do with the Conxo Hospital, which you all know -- it's not necessary to make a history about it -- and about the report made following the visit of some inspectors, technicians who have visited the hospital's conditions, which says some things like the following. "There is no official control of patients in which legal and administrative records are recorded. There is no follow-up procedure for patients. The administrative record of each patient does not include a copy of the medical report that is referred to the judge with the request to continue the admission." Translated — although it's easy to understand and we all understand it, but because it's powerful — the reports that have to decide that people should be kept in a medical report, of course. It doesn't exist. "The cars of the judges of the continuation of the voluntary detention generally do not count with sufficient motivation." We have, therefore, that there is no follow-up, that there is no documentation to follow up on the cases, that there is no clinical accreditation in many cases of why some stays have to be followed, and there are not enough reports or motivations in many cases to believe that some patients should continue to be hospitalized. Can we guarantee that there are no hospitalized patients against their will? And from that point on, we wonder, how long can these situations last? The report continues and affirms the existence of people who have been admitted for very long periods of time. And I ask the question -- although those who know the report already know it -- how much it's a very extended period in which a person may be in a center, such as the Conxo Hospital, without enough reports or motivation to be. How long is it a very long, very dilated experience for someone to be admitted without having enough clinical reports? Someone might think that a few months, a year, five, ten... because it's not one of those dates, neither fifteen nor twenty-five, but we're talking about people who are over thirty years old. And there are some cases of people who have been admitted for 50 years, without ensuring that clinical reports are sufficient and motivating to maintain that stay. This isn't about ten thousand miles away in a lost jungle; it's just a short, very short mile away from this Parliament. I'm going to read some other parts of this report. "The pavilion where patients reside does not have video surveillance," which is relatively common in some cases of this type of center and in some parts of the center. "The individual rooms where mechanical restraints can be carried out are not suitable for that use." Mechanical restraints all over the world can understand the mechanism used or necessarily of use in some extreme or limit situation; the less, of course, better, and always with proper monitoring and suitable rooms. I repeat: "the pavilion where the patients live does not have video surveillance", "Individual rooms where mechanical restraints are performed are not appropriate, or, what is the same, are not the beds where mechanical retention is done, they are not in all visible cases, there is no proper communication with the outside. Think of what you're supposed to be tied to a bed without being able to communicate with the outside, not even talking to someone on the other side of the door. Because the report also says something like: "Various patients refer to the use of containment measures as a punishment measure." A few miles away, this is our first world too, too! There are other things that, in fact, compared to these two situations, would seem to be smaller, but which I think is important to mention, and which also says the report. I'm just reading the report literally. I remember: National Mechanism for Prevention of Torture. He's talking about things like the general lack of adequate resources for hospital and socio-health care. It also says that there is very little involvement of patients in the daily functioning of the center. It also says that intimacy between patients is addressed with very little naturality. It also says that cases of overmedication have been detected with psychopharmaceuticals. It also says that people in long-term units like this have in this case less or less access to activities aimed at increasing their autonomy and independence. It also says that the facilities, except for a reformed unit, are obsolete. This says this report. We are now presenting a proposal which, as far as the resolution is concerned, points out that we agree to accept the recommendations included in this report, because it points out recommendations. And we bring it here because this report is from November last year and it points out some recommendations on formalizing legal history documentation systems, on making better mechanisms, on implementing an archive to follow up, on giving instructions to strictly comply with the adequacy of medical reports that accompany long-stay decisions. It also speaks of the need to promote and promote new processes with the Prosecutor's Office and judicial bodies to properly assess the situation of all people who have entered there; that it can be ensured, if they are voluntarily, that they have the volitional ability to decide to be there, and if they do not, that there are reports that can believe it. It's about installing video surveillance systems, controlling the use of mechanical containment rooms, talking about a lot of these things. There is a common denominator: this report was forwarded to the Council and to the head of the centre, and received a reply. All the answers are in the report. Do you know what the main denominator is? That all the suggestions that are included carry an answer that says -- I quote literally -- "No answer," without reply from the Counsellor. This doesn't happen ten thousand miles in countries that we can't understand, in societies that we don't understand or in places where we can feel less emotionally involved, that exist. It occurs very short kilometers, it occurs in places where we can go. We'll have time, sure, to discuss the necessarily more humanized models of mental health care, with less pharmacology, with more therapy, more personalized. I am sure that we need to debate this, there are a lot of questions on which we have to debate. But this, this, prolonged stays without being guaranteed the need for it to be so, stays of more than thirty years, stays of fifty years of people entering without us being able to guarantee, as a system, that they are on their own or because they really need it, mechanical restraints that are pointed out as punishment, all this happens here next door. What we bring today is a proposal, a resolution, very simple: let us heed this report and take the measures it requires us, which are not even a matter of extreme expenditure, if anyone still wants to think about it. I'm not. We need to take these measures. From our group we believe it is necessary to agree on this. And we just wanted to reflect on this situation, because there are relatives who have people in attendance, because there are people there -- 221 -- who need us to guarantee their rights, and that's our job...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u84	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u85	...and that's what we're thinking here today from our group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u86	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u87	Good morning. Indeed, the situation of the conxo psychiatric is not the first time that we have come to this Parliament, which unfortunately we have had to address on other occasions because of situations of suicide of people who have entered there, because of the lack of resources at this centre, because of the lack of resources in the case of Sergas regarding complaints of lack of resources at this centre. Today the Socialist Party Member has just described a part of the report which refers to the initiative we are discussing. And I, first of all, want to make a recognition to the Galego Mental Health Movement, which warned us of this report, which made the existence of the same public and which made the Management's challenge public about it. Because once again, the claim of the Administration, Sergas, the Council, is that a question of the extreme gravity of the report — and the one described in the report only reflects the situation in this hospital — has gone unnoticed, as if it had not happened. Because what you don't know seems like it doesn't exist. And if it doesn't exist, no action is taken and no correction is made. And indeed, in this report, we are aware of the serious situation in the attention of the people attending this institution, dependent on the Galician Health Service. Issues such as the general lack of resources, the lack of monitoring mechanisms for patients, a high rate of disability and protections, the obsolescence of facilities, cases of overmedication, the use of mechanical restraints as punishment, that is, a whole series of issues which, of course, should be passed and unfortunately, are dramatically present. I'm present for people who are next door, because we're talking about a center that's next there, here in Compostela, in Conxo. The Galego Mental Health Movement, an expert in the management's response, considers that the response given to this report is inconceivable and that it is produced by an organ of the Galician Union. And we remember that this body, the National Mechanism for Prevention of Torture, which depends on the Valedoria, the Ombudsman of the People, of the Spanish State, has the mission to ensure that this issue is as fundamental, as is the prevention of torture. And it is evidenced in this report that this situation of torture is taking place. It also denounces the Galego Mental Health Movement the lack of professionals, which is manifest; that the Psychiatric Hospital of Conxo needs to be professionally strengthened, with a determination to rehabilitate the persons who, together with the firm commitment, in that sense, are responsible for the Health Council, the integrated management agency of the area, and having as its centre and guide of this process the respect and defence of the rights of individuals, who are not being complied with. I'm just going to figure out an extract contained in this report and that the Galego Mental Health Movement has reflected in its facebook page, which says it's part of that report. He says, "In the Conxo hospital, the rooms, which are mostly three beds, look impersonal. There are no patient inserts or belongings, which is disfunctional given the prolonged stay of most users. The rest of the facilities, except for a reformed unit, presented humidity and cracks. An important feeling of cold was perceived, with patients remaining in the sheltered units. The staff recognized the deplorable state of the facilities, which attributed to being a historic building. The reforms that have been carried out have always been very limited. Living conditions are therefore unacceptable, and even more so if it's considered to be a health space where people should usually stay in their homes for years. This is part of the report.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u89	Not invented, it's part of the report. We shall vote in favour of the Socialist Party's initiative. We have tabled an addendum amendment that goes in the direction of what the professionals have been demanding for a long time, which is that, apart from meeting the general recommendations of the report, they immediately solve the deficiencies in staffing and existing resources at the Psychiatric Hospital of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u91	...counsel to be able to pay with dignity the attention to mental health that people who enter there need.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u92	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u93	It seems urgent to us that, once and for all, they stop looking the other way and look at what's going on in this center. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u94	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u95	Thank you, President. What happened at the control session is not only elegant — and unwelcomely speaking of premature children, we suppose that of Pablo Iglesias — but rather rather rather rather hypocritical when they closed this summer 18 baby cots at Santiago de Compostela University Hospital. Of course, they don't even know what they have in their public health. [[Applause]] We will support this initiative regardless of whether or not the amendment is accepted. And the truth is that it is quite discouraging to come here again talking about public health, in this case of mental health, when despite all the warnings that have been made all these years, nothing has been noticed by the Health Council at all. About a year and a half ago, we were here questioning the Health Counsellor precisely for these suicide news and allegations of rape that had occurred in that unit of Conxo, others in the Coruña, and, on other occasions, in other units. And it turns out quite striking that the People's Party usually assumes that the long-stay units have been closed; something in which, as we have already said on other occasions, we agreed, even though we also denounce the conditions in which the people who ended up in third-year residences, in centres not adapted to mental health care, and which now maintains the last center that remains in these conditions. It may be hard, but to me, of course, it does not seem hard to debate in this Parliament if there is a report indicating that there is a violation of fundamental rights. The prosecutor's office is studying the alleged violation of human rights in that unit of Conxo. And I think it's serious enough to get the Galician board to take a break and take some kind of measure. The conditions which reflect the report itself have been moved here. Probably the paragraph that I read the BNG spokesman, the last one, is the hardest, regardless of all the legal violations that have been denouncing workers for years and which now reflects this report. It's a totally unacceptable situation. The report speaks of, at the outset — I believe it has not been delivered here — that it has been observed that a significant percentage of residents had entered a non-voluntary and urgent procedure, although this was not always properly believed in the documentation that could be examined. I mean, people are there without being legally justified on many occasions because they're there on a permanent basis. And the report says that even in some cases for over thirty years. It's totally immeasurable. The report also states that legal changes have been made to adapt the existing documentation to the effective legality, but changes that were not complied with because they were not made at the time of the prescription of that income; income that on many occasions — I believe the report itself — are not signed by any optional or optional. People, the sick's relatives with mental health problems, also talked to us, and indeed, the Galego Mental Health Movement. And the fact is, unfortunately, this circumstance is not only taking place in this center. We're going to move it into some debate on the Health Commission, because we have complaints from other centers where neither mechanical containment nor drug overexposure nor control of other basic elements that violate fundamental rights of people who are deprived of their freedom there. Because yes, they are deprived of their freedom. And not only are they, but they are in a condition, which reports their own report, which is a 19th century presidency: cold, deprived of their personal belongings, lack of knowledge of who manages their material goods, lack of knowledge of their legal tutors, total inability to defend themselves against alleged treatments and containment. Look, a lot of these things happen, and we've reported it on other occasions, because there's no enough professionals, because there's no suitable protocols, and because there's no review and control of how you're assisting in those services. It's never the professional's fault, it's the manager's fault that they look years and years on the other side while they complain — not only in this Chamber but out there — that there are possible violations. And you have to come up with the report to echo the prosecutor's office on this case, and if you're looking into it. I believe that the Union cannot be allowed to wait for it to really resolve itself by the legal way. It's just that they have to take some kind of measure. I'm going to finish now, because I don't have time. We, regardless of whether or not we accept the amendment, will vote in favour. And the amendment simply calls for those mental health plans that we've been demanding for years in this House — and they've been promised by the Council for years — and an budget, now that we're at the door of the next budgetary debate. Because unfortunately, as much as we bring this matter here, mental health remains without sufficient resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. You have the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u97	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Well, it has to be said that, of course, before the report — and also saying that this report is taken into account by the Galician Council — that the Greek Government has already expressed its commitment to improving the quality of care given to patients with severe mental disorder admitted to psychiatric hospitals. The changes that have occurred over the years, in which they have relocated and modernized the facilities dedicated to rehabilitation and occupational programs for patients with severe mental disorder, are a good example of this. At the conxo hospital, the old attached building that hosted rehabilitation care units came down, providing it with a new space in the main building with equipment suitable for care needs. He also progressed in the deinstitutionalization of the mentally ill by closing the old psychiatric hospitals in Toén, Castro and Rebullon, transferring them to rehabilitation care units, special care and residential care—hospitals of Piñor, Calde and Nicolás Peña respectively. Attention to the most severe pathology has also been reorganized, in line with international recommendations and as recommended by the Ombudsman's report, advocating for an increase in squares in rehabilitation care units, in special care units, and a reduction in the number of squares in hospital residential units. These hospital rehabilitation care units are open units, equipped with health personnel, both psychiatrists, clinical psychologists and nursing staff and occupational therapists, among others, who perform a care job aimed at rehabilitation and social reintegration of patients with severe mental disorder. Safety measures in these rooms are applied by health personnel and are intended solely to ensure the health and integrity of patients, and never their confinement. There is a protocol in all these sites of immobilization and containment of the patient that applies in cases where extreme psychomotor agitation occurs, or in cases where there is a risk of injury to the patient to himself or to others. We're talking about patients who have severe mental disorder. This is not a centre where deprivation of liberty measures are applied. Only exceptionally, when the clinical or legal situation recommends it, can the patient's exit from his area of treatment be limited. All patients have guaranteed access to therapeutic novelties with a better profile of tolerance and a lower incidence of side effects, and it is up to the optional to monitor and control them. It must also be said that the dispensation of psychopharmaceuticals takes place from the pharmacy service of the hospital complex, as for the rest of the patients who have entered. Building on the series of improvements made by Sergas in the development of severe mental disorder, it must be pointed out that all organizational structures also include day-to-day hospitals and care continuity teams, which carry out intensive and ongoing care at home of people with severe and chronic mental disorder when they do not require hospitalization and are in a stable situation. In 2011, an agreement was signed between the Councillor for Health and Social Policy, and joint work lines of support and socio-health care are established for patients with long-term mental disorders and a chronic course stabilized from a health point of view. And this agreement facilitates the derivation of these persons, who are in a situation of disability or institutionalized dependence in hospital rehabilitation units and residential units, to residential centers promoting autonomy or the care of the unit, adjusted to the psychosocial needs of each patient. I also point out that in 2004 the first steps were taken in this autonomous community with the establishment of a working group of psychiatric ethics, which has developed, among others, a consensual protocol for its application in all mental health care devices in our community. Currently, in all health areas there are detailed, concrete and up-to-date protocols for the implementation of isolation procedures, physical restraint and involuntary income. All services include in their objectives analysis and activities related to improving the use of containment. And the Welsh Health Administration continues with its objective of maximizing mental health within the common plan and care strategy for Sergas. We have to read the whole report. I missed you, Mr. Torrado, what you forgot about what the report says about the professionals working there. He said, "It was observed that hospital staff treated patients with respect, affection and closeness." And this has to be said, because they're people who work in circumstances we all know. And it must also be said that you said there were no answers. Many are answered and others are in process. As I said earlier, the Council takes this report into account. There is no doubt that the recommendations made by the Ombudsman in his report will be taken into account, each and every one of them, in order to comply with the necessary improvement measures. We tabled an amendment, which we hope will be accepted. And to finish with, I just want to tell Mrs. Solla, of the case she named the premature, which I suppose will be by a lord of her party, that this gentleman thanked that this gentleman and lady, sorry, thanked the treatment received by public health. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He took it out of his private scope and therefore remarked in this room. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u99	Thank you, President. I would like to thank the support expressed by the groups of BNG and En Marea. Moreover, we are told by our group and this Parliament that both groups have expressed concern about these issues, and especially their spokesmen, who have done so intensely, even prior to this legislation. It's my first legislation, but I know the interests of both of them and it's commendable. We are grateful for the support of this initiative, which also enriches the amendments and will of course be clearly accepted. In addition, I would like to add my thanks to the collectives who have denounced this situation. Today there are representatives of Fears, who must be thanked — sometimes not with all the success they deserve — for having a certain impact and also contribute to focusing on the issues that are of relevance. Because marking the agenda is a fundamental political task, and often even political groups are not able to do so. And they also, from that point of view, have an impeccable job and contribute to doing this country, at least a better country as long as they get us to have these debates. [[Applause]] There is a proposal for an amendment on which I would like to debate, which is the amendment brought here by the People's Group. It's true she was defended in 20 seconds. On the previous point, the truth is that I sincerely understand the will of those who defended it here, but this debate was not the subject of the utopian or desirable positions, or the drafting of speeches that are not appropriate to what we were discussing. We are debating a very specific situation on a very specific report that has numerous pages. The truth is, you can't read the whole thing. If we read it in full, it would probably also be much harder. There are questions, besides those I brought here, which have exposed Mrs. Prado and Mrs. Solla and which are equally hard. But ultimately, our assessment is that the report is unacceptable and unacceptable. And those recommendations must be taken into account. Some would do it, but all I've described have no answer issued. And we think they're absolutely hard and unacceptable, which is why they should also be assumed. We don't understand why others do and don't. And about the amendment in particular, maybe what we should look at is what the amendment is about, because I think I'm going to be a little more specific than Mrs. Friend, who asked for the amendment to be approved. It differs only from our proposal that we "take up" the recommendations of the report and the People's Party proposes "values". That's the difference. With all our strength, we cannot accept that amendment. Why? First, because if you value them, there is still no valid position on whether they are valid or not. We think it's necessary to have a position. You've probably got her in the first place. But even if you don't have it in the first place, it's important to be aware of when the report is. The report's from November last year and we're in September, going to ten months. If after ten months of a report so hard that shames our system we still have to value it, bad. We propose you take it. If it is also announced here, as always, that many things have already been done and that they will already be done... this is like a standard that could be taken as implicit in all the interventions of the People's Party. A lot of things are already being done, a lot of things have already been done, and more will be done. If they do, it won't be too difficult for us to approve. If such measures are to be taken, why not approve? And the difference is, I think, in two questions. First, you can consider...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u100	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u101	...—now, Mr President, you can consider by the People's Party that adopting something that brings a group to the opposition is a contempt, which cannot be considered to approve something that brings these here. Well, it's a minor debate, I think. It doesn't make any sense. Look, this isn't about medals. We might also think that if we're going to do this, it's better to approve it, because we're going to contribute to doing what the associations already do, which is to focus on this situation and to solve it as soon as possible. And we will also contribute to making us, among all, sometimes, able to agree on such an essential issue. We do not wish to discuss matters on which, as I said here, we all agree. Because if not, it would be "you come here to make politics"; yes, but we would take it as a sample that things are not approved because they are brought by another group. If we all agree, I trust we approve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u102	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the measures to be taken in the field of health in the face of the death of a patient in the road CAP
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u103	No amendments were tabled, and in order to formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u104	During the control session to the President of the Union we attended once again a non-assunction exercise of reality, a denial of Galician public health, of course, worthy of study in the faculties, on the one hand, of psychology and, on the other hand, of journalism, and of how to cover reality with tons of holders, demagogy and pages in paid newspapers and the service of those who pay. Today the BNG brings here an initiative to demand clarification of what happened on Saturday, August 4, at the Road CAP, on August 4, where at the Road CAP a patient died from lack of health care. The health personnel at this facility were outside the facility, attending an emergency home, which then required the patient to be transferred to the CHUS. Therefore, death occurred in a context of lack of coverage and of Saturday's reinforcement, with the absence of the only health team that developed the work that afternoon for going to an emergency out of it. The Road CAP that Saturday was attended to by only one team: an optional professional, a nursing professional and a PSX, when the normal thing is that at weekends it's a second optional. And the reality is that it's been several weekends without covering this second optional square. The death of Jose Manuel caused all the alarms about the health situation in Galicia, about the health policy of the People's Party. It is clear that in life, in general, and in health, in particular, there is no absolute control of risks, there is no zero risk. And it is no less true that the obligation of the Administration, in this case of Sergas, is to guarantee the means and resources necessary to reduce those risks to the minimum inevitable. And in case we're busy, it's far, far away from fulfilling that obligation of means. We regret the attitude that he has maintained and continues to maintain the Council and Sergas, the attitude that he has maintained before the death of a person in the Road CAP, that of not listening to the demands of the CAP professionals and professionals who have been reporting the situation for months, making deaf ears to his warnings about the lack of personnel, on the discoveries that are taking place, and the attitude that has been maintained afterwards. It is regrettable for Sergas officials that they had not tried to communicate with the deceased's family personally, even though they had only been able to move their condolences personally, and not only through the media. It's unfortunate that the manager of EOXI, Leoine Núñez, didn't even interrupt her vacations, had never turned his face at any time, had given no explanation as responsible for the health area. And it is regrettable that the adviser, in the face of such a serious fact as the death of a person for lack of assistance, had given no explanation in this Parliament. It is not to be welcomed that the position of minimizing the event is maintained, and since the BNG we consider it necessary to clarify the success, assume responsibilities and explain it in this Parliament. And that's why the first point of the initiative that we bring to the debate today is that the highest officials of the Council of Health and the Sergas give urgent explanations in this Parliament — urgencys will no longer be because more than a month ago of the event — about the causes of the death of the patient in the Road CAP on Saturday, August 4, and the reason for denying the reinforcement requested by the CAP staff. I, of course, was quite surprised to hear the president of the board say that there was an open file to see what had happened to the staff. They'll even be able to try to hold the staff accountable for the event at the same time! There's no driver here, but they're able to find someone in charge of the staff. They're always able to find someone who's responsible for it. The second point of the initiative calls for the demands of the professionals and professionals who provide their services at the continuing attention points, in the CAPs, of whom Sergas is known. He is familiar with the fact that the CAP professionals have been reporting for months the deterioration of the working and care conditions in these centres that care for Galician outpatient emergencies. The CAP follows with the same material and human resources ten years ago, when at this time the emergencies have done nothing but increase. There's an ageing population, the CAP staff makes 90% of the work commissioned by 061, they're the ones who medicalize ambulances, go to their homes, attend accidents, infarctions... professionals report that they work continuously in situations of minimal services, that the work overload is brutal, that they don't replace the absences of professionals, that they don't set up weekend reinforcements or on dates with forecast of increased demand. They've been complaining for months that it's impossible to continue. On 21 June, the BNG brought this situation to this Parliament. He was asking the Government, asking the Director General of Human Resources, who had met the demands of these professionals. The next day there was a sectoral table, where this situation was being addressed. And at those tables they're completely dilating to give them an answer to the demands these professionals are making. At the table held the next day the expected result was more delay in giving an answer. At the beginning of summer, the CAP professionals, organized on a platform, made public a letter, which they also sent to Sergas officials, in which they made the situation public again, in which they said that, just before the summer, the problems had only begun. They made it public that the last round of threads by the Administration is to leave undiscovered absences in emergency services. If a doctor is unwilling or justified or cannot go to his guard for any reason, no one is put in his place. And they said this happened on Thursday, July 5th at the Roundup CAP, Saturday 7th at the Moaña CAP, the 12th at Roundup, the 13th at the Porriño, the 14th at the Guard. They said that the consequence of all this is that only one doctor is allowed to take care of the job for which two staff have already been shown insufficient on many occasions. It's no longer a minimum coverage, we find ourselves in a situation of saving who can. And the worst thing is, the facts show that it's nothing on time. Let's say, for example, that a patient goes to the CAP affected by a severe and sudden pathology, something that can happen in the summer, an insect bite that has a serious allergic reaction, that the patient arrives at the CAP with dizziness or respiratory difficulties, and the doctor is not because he had to attend a home, or if he is, but he does not allow him to finish his shift and he has been working more hours than he would care for. In the first of all, the staff at the reception of the CAP will try to assist you without being healthy; in the second, it will be attended by an exhausted doctor. In both cases it is most likely that the situation will be resolved in a favourable way for the patient. The reality is that professionals, at the limit, are serving a system that makes water everywhere. The solution proposed by the Administration is to close services, leave them undiscovered and cross their fingers so that nothing irreparable can happen. So far the game is coming out well and we seem to have no choice but to continue to rely on chance and work at the limit of what we're still trying to keep the ship on board. This is July 15th. At the end of the month, another letter was issued again in the same direction, saying that a large amount of continuous attention points were left uncovered. A few days ago this group of health workers reported the situation in the press, and Justice accused us of wanting to create alarm in the population. What they don't want to see is that the alarm is real, the CAPs have been working on minimal time and they're allowing themselves to be discovered that will allow something irremediable to happen someday. We're talking about letters from CAP professionals in July. They were complaining that something serious was going to happen. And something bad happened. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do not continue to look elsewhere. They were warned that this situation could happen at any time, and the situation happened. Not because they weren't warned that they were playing with fire, that the situation of discovery, the situation of lack of personnel, was a warning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u106	...by active and passive. Keeping random and improvising the health coverage of the entire population is irresponsible. This is not what the Galego Nationalist Bloc says today. They were insistently saying the CAP professionals in the Public Health System of Galicia. That's why I ask them to vote in favour of explanations of what has happened at the Guard's CAP and to meet the demands of professionals who are at the limit and no longer stand this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u108	Thank you, President. In our group we will undoubtedly support the GNP which is brought here today because we share, as it could not be otherwise, the concerns and demands that are being moved through this proposal. We share them because, in addition, what it raises is a question that all groups already have at their own time, which is the request for explanations. Actually, it's never a bad time to do some kind of reflections like the hardness that it's supposed to be almost a month and a half after a situation like this to pose something like the request for explanations. I mean, it's exactly discouraging. Yesterday we listened to some unfortunate MP here talking about the difficulties some constables in some places have so I don't know what matters with information. I do not wish to be Members of the opposition to this Government, because it would be desperate. [[Applause]] But this brings the collation to an issue which, with the dramatic situation that has taken place in this road CAP, I think it allows us — with a spirit to get out of the concrete debate, which is tremendously hard, but with a more global perspective — to actually see what the political objective of this government is when there is a situation like this, which is nothing but to slip away. It gives the feeling that the question is not solving something as dramatic as why a person died in a health system he has or should have the means and resources to be able to handle it, which is something very hard for a man to fail in a health center, in a CAP, at a continuous point of attention where there was no continued attention. Well, in addition to that, the Government's goal is not to resolve that debate, but to resolve how to get out of this issue. And, in fact, it is equally dramatic to see how you can even celebrate the ability to get out of the debate free of debate. Some advisor believes that getting out of these matters is an achievement. And, look, no; for in order to do that, apparently, one has to defend himself, first, in an absolute, unsalted majority. And former counsellor Augustine Hernández has already said: "Sometimes politics must be done with the heart," a little, even if it is. They listen to him, because he was his partner. The truth is that not to give any explanation, to disappear so that negative things do them to others, to deny themselves to get out of the same way, as your president did and that he denied it to Santiago's Power, by the way, that he said that sometimes on weekends there are not two teams in the Road CAP. "Sometimes," and today the president said there always are. You're lying! And he knows. You're lying! And he knows. And if not, that the President can guarantee — that he cannot — that there was no CAP in this country this weekend with only one team, that there were them. It could have happened again. But getting out of these issues seems to be a fantastic goal for this government. And it can't be, it can't be that the final end of political action is that I don't miss the problems. The action must be to solve the problems. And the question is, what did this Government do to solve that such a situation can never happen again? Nothing! Nothing! And that's the dramatic thing, which can happen again. But this is not an unexpected situation, as was said or as if you heard some leader of the People's Party, "a fatal chance." Hey, look, the fatal coincidences don't have a coincidence, they're being warned. Because the professional groups who are dedicated to this warned that it could happen. Because in this Parliament some Member literally said in a parliamentary debate: "There are CAPs that are going on weekends with only one team and often have to go out and be out more than an hour or more than two hours and there is no medical care in the CAPs. You know what he said? To make a proposal to ensure that there were at least two teams in each CAP. You know what the People's Party voted for? On the contrary. It was not an unexpected situation that could not be expected, because unfortunately even misfortunes can sometimes be expected. And the CAP professionals warned that it could happen and warn that it could happen again. Please, let's not get out of this situation, let's just solve the situation, let's not have to listen to lies where they contradict each other to see who's capable of getting out cleaner. There's no more professionals in the system, there's no will to solve it because it's not being corrected. There's a CAP that's getting empty for more than an hour, for more than two... today, yesterday, and they'll stay tomorrow. It can happen again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u109	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u110	And although we're not going to return anyone's life, please don't let it happen again. It's not health as a tool to play the list and see if we're able to play the limit and save some money. It's not that save space. There are others, sure, and they are, at least, more worthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u111	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u112	Thank you, President. We are obviously going to support the non-law proposal. The truth is, in the morning, we had to hear things here that... order a trick, you have to have it! We should present the budgets in real terms on the cost of living and on the rise of prices and on the proportion of previous years, because we lost more than 9% of the health budget and here everyone gives the figures they think. Primary care represents only 15% of the entire health budget, a tremendous bet on primary care! Sometimes you have to listen to things here that really measure the lack of moral restraint. And once and a million times, one and a million times, we already said, indeed -- it was now -- that there could be misfortunes like the one that happened at the Road CAP. I believe that there is a lack of hands to tell how often we speak in the Health Committee of this Parliament, and also in this plenary session, of the insufficiency which is supposed to have just one team working on many points of continuous attention from Galicia's geography. We warned about the dispersion, the length of the emergency points about the hospital, we warned about the exits to the homes, the ambulance exits they did, what they do, the health care professionals and the health care facilities when they're going to attend an emergency outside, when they're attending traffic, when they have to go to a home, which is done in a forced way, and that they also provide professionals with these unmedicalized ambulances, because they're working. And you didn't pay any attention to this circumstance. Sometimes the circumstance — we said it too — is that there is a partner, a companion, a PSX only in a health center, at an ongoing point of attention, and in the very difficult situation that people come and there are no health professionals to attend to them. They can't take care of it. That's what's going on, and we've got him reporting a lot of times. The "I've already warned you" is absolutely worthless if no measure is taken. We have no kind of satisfaction in having to be here today discussing this circumstance, but you have already been warned. Yesterday, looking at the work that was done, I had a new, a news from 2014 that we were discussing. We proposed — and I supported it in Commission 5a — that measures be taken on how the professionals of the continuing attention points were, making hours too long and in a situation that did not meet the health needs. And he voted against it, he voted against it every time this issue was brought to this Parliament since then, of course, and probably long before I was here. And the votes against have a lot to do with what we're talking about, too, when we vote against providing more medical ambulances. Because, unfortunately, the CAP professionals have to go out, and we ask for many — they are written in budgets. We asked what we thought was necessary, what the professionals told us they were necessary throughout Galicia. But, of course, he voted against medical ambulances as well. And when they vote against providing primary care, in order to prevent emergency care from happening, it also involves this problem. And also when we vote against improving working conditions at those continuing points of attention. In fact, it just moved here that the demands of the professionals still fail to meet. They were demands that everyone had in writing and that were quite simple, and that had to do with meeting basic labour rights, but that had a lot to do with the quality of care that a professional could provide at his job and with not leaving a continuous point of attention neglected because he was working elsewhere. And professionals can't be in two places at once. So clicking the button and voting has a lot to do with the consequences that then happen at the continuing points of attention, at hospitals, at the primary care of our country. So you should think about what you're going to do, because the risk is there. Obviously, zero risk — often repeated in the Health Council — does not exist, but responsible rulers, managers and managers, minimize the possibility of risk by placing all the means they have in their hands; something that is not being produced in primary care and something that has not been produced or produced in continuing care points. So, "we warned you," in the case of this person's death, it's no use. We don't use it, the family doesn't serve it and it doesn't serve the rest of the people cared for if the Council doesn't take note, if the Council doesn't reflect, if the Council doesn't put enough resources. And this is ultimately a health model. We are, of course, going to vote in favour. Another of the things that were heard this morning here — and of course, I feel quite bold — is to talk about, when they're not, covering the 061. With what personal? With what professionals? Are those themselves who are on strike protesting and who are not being attended by the Health Council? You have to be brave, actually, sometimes to say things when you don't know what you're doing from your advice! Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Today he brings the Galego Nationalist Block to this plenary today a proposal regarding the situation and the demands of some professionals of the continued attention points of Sergas, and he does so, ladies and gentlemen, using the unfortunate death of a person, Mr. Jose Manuel Brey, whose family wishes, first, to convey the condolences of our parliamentary group. As far as this unfortunate situation is concerned, I have little to add to what the President said in Question Time. There's an investigation by the Inspectorate, and there seems to be, a judicial investigation into a family complaint, which led the prosecutor's office to reject an investigation requested by an association. Ladies and gentlemen, the Road CAP is well-sized and meets the isochrons that are suitable for regulation. The assistance team, the president explained it, had to go out to an emergency and was ten minutes away when this person's painting — which had been there, indeed, longer — was worse, when the painting really turned into a gravity painting and the patient was revived for thirty minutes by this staff and unfortunately unsuccessful. The Members of the People's Party — I repeat — regret, as it could not be otherwise, this fatal outcome and reiterate our sorrow to the family members for the painful loss. And I also want to express my rejection and rejection of the group for the attempt at the political use of an unfortunate event, attempting to maintain confidence in the outstanding work of the CAP, in which, as the president said, more than 4,000 people are treated every day and have a resolution of 91%. You know, Mr. Opposition Officers, as well as we do with the difficulties of covering the staff deficit replacements this summer in Galicia and the rest of Spain. That difficulty is why, in spite of predictions, on many occasions you have to change your forecasts because a doctor appointed to a position may have to go to another — for a casualty, for an accident, for a disease, for any other circumstance modifying this planning. In this case — the President said — we know that a doctor was scheduled to be present that Saturday at the CAP, which could not be and, however, if the square was covered on Sunday. I repeat, the resolution capacity of the CAP in Galicia is 91% and up to about 600,000 annual emergencies in those CAPs. And it's true that sometimes professionals have to get out of the CAP, we have to get out of the CAP because there's a demand for emergency care. And in that suppose the assistant staff is in charge, alerts to 061 and 061 is what collects the possible demands or calls that can be produced in that CAP during those moments where there is not the medical equipment that has the CAP, and that's what defines the resources to be used, the resources that are used in each case, in the face of a call for attention or an emergency. Do you really think that it would be possible, that it would be sustainable, to double all the staff of the Greek CAP? Think about it? And why two and not three, if it's possible — I've experienced it many times — that they have to get out of both teams? What happens when the two teams have to go out? Or are you going to make the second team not leave the center in any way? It just happened in Andalusia, a new lady had just died, a new lady, with an stroke because there was an issue there of ambulances, of disordination, of what had been, nothing happened. According to the news, she had a health center 50 meters away and she didn't care from the health center. What's up? Is there a warrant not to leave the health center? I really don't know. I'd like you to review a document, which is a proposal for transformation of primary care in Galicia. We've talked before. It is a report drawn up — in the chapter of the CAP — by two professionals, of course, not suspected of being involved with the People's Party and belonging to public health associations. And in that document, for example, it was recognized that the absence of limitations or filters for the use of emergencies produced inadequate use and collapses in health services; it recognized that in an important number of cases there was no objective urgency; it said, textually, that "the increase in the use of emergencies in Spain had no international comparison." We're talking about the years 2007, 2008, when there was money, when there was no problem, when there was money. He recognized that CAPs consumed a lot of human resources and hampered the development of primary care in Galicia for its own consumption. And I recognized that a large majority of rural CAPs had very low activity, especially at nighttime. In the conclusions, he said, "It is necessary to carry out an in-depth reform that produces a reduction in the current number of CAPs, with a lower consumption of professionals and an improvement in the quality of care." When this report is published, Mr. Feijó won the election. And a government and a person who is "cutter" and who is "privateizer" in case they don't listen to this report and they don't cut CAPs and they don't shut down or cut professionals. That's reality, and the rest is what it is. What they tell us now has nothing to do with this. I'm done. As far as the demands of the initiative are concerned, we do not consider the appearance appropriate by what the president said. The president spoke today and there's a two-way investigation. And the demands of a collective of workers are being studied at the sectoral table, on a specific technical commission. I understand, Mrs. Prado, that you won't mean that you have to answer all the claims of this group of professionals. I suppose we'll have to study them. I don't know what could happen if any administration had taken all the claims from all the working groups and had fulfilled them all. I don't know, I don't want to know. Of course, where you rule, Mrs Prado — and I know — do not do exactly as you propose on your own initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u115	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u116	First of all, I would like to thank the support expressed by En Marea and the Socialist Party for this initiative of the BNG. And, of course, I will try to make it space so that the People's Party understands that one thing is to investigate the legal and judicial responsibilities -- actually, the family has the issue in the trial -- one thing is research, and another is the political responsibilities, gentlemen of the People's Party, the political responsibilities. And if the People's Party believes that in the face of a person's death for lack of health care, there's no political explanation, then they have a real problem. And what BNG demands and demands society, alarmed because a person is waiting for hours of medical assistance and who dies drowned without that medical assistance, is that, if that doesn't deserve any political officer to come and explain to Parliament, then, indeed, we have a problem. They lack self-criticism, they lack solutions, and they're left with the prepotence, they're left with the prepotence. Because, look, the option cannot be that there are no professionals, the option cannot be to leave the population without assistance and the option cannot be immobilism and do nothing. Because, indeed, it is questionable and regrettable the action of the Board of Galicia and Sergas before the event, for not having heard what was happening. All the indicators said that risk was more than obvious and that this could happen at any time. And it's unfortunate that, after it happens, the only option for you is not to do anything, not to assume any responsibility and not to change anything at all. Sergas is, of course, not exploiting all the possibilities, all the mechanisms at his disposal to put corrective measures on the table, he is not putting on or taking advantage of all the mechanisms of the 2008 agreement, such as offering volunteers in all areas, not doing so. He's not loyal to the professionals to end the precariousness. It's not launching training processes or increasing the squares in medical faculties or really urging the Spanish Government to increase the MIR squares with all its vehemence and strength. A job stability plan is not presented to negotiate immediately and to convene in opposition all the squares to give stability to professionals and that there is not that permanent stamp of professionals looking for a stability that Sergas does not give here, a permanent stamp of professionals towards other health systems. Because Sergas here is constantly harassing them. The lack of staff, of course, is not solved by overexploiting the staff, and it's about forming sufficient health care to cover retirements and offering sufficient oppositions to ensure that coverage. The solution really goes by wanting to bet on public health, which is not what the People's Party is doing. Clearly, the People's Party is doing what it wants and what it always wants to do, which is dismantling public health. And the consequences are there, not even in the face of the death of the population, you react. It's authentically lamentable, authentically lamentable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Churches and six other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia before the Government of the State in relation to the thermal power plants of the Bridges and Meirama
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u118	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block, the Socialist Group and the Parliamentary Group on En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u119	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Calvo Pouso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u120	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Today this parliamentary group brings this initiative to the attention of Mr Sánchez's government unfortunately every day he remains in Moncloa. There's already in the street, among people and among many political commentators, the conviction that Sánchez will do Zapatero good. And they believe that this idea is increasingly extended. The problem is not that you've never won a few elections, neither is it that you've achieved the two worst results of the Socialist Party, either. Not even in making a motion of censure in which you have no doubt relied on any vote, regardless of whether you wanted to break Spain or whether you were accomplices or authors of the greatest political problem that Spain has had for centuries. No, the problem lies in Sánchez himself, in his conformation of the Government, in thinking that to govern... - Wait a minute, you'll see how you understand what I want to say to him. -...to think that to govern is to make announcements and innate desire to say one thing in the morning and another in the afternoon. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And when he doesn't get there, he'll always have El Valle de los Fallos. Since this government took possession, there are many advertisements that are made without thinking, or perhaps to recover some escaped photo from Podemos. But, in any case, after each announcement, a red light is lit in many sectors and in many territories of Spain. Let's give you an example to understand what the problem is. See if I can explain it to them. One of the ministers, Magdalena Valerio, accepted and approved the creation of a union of sex workers. He launched the file for his legalization and gave a good look and all the steps before it was created until it was published in the BOE. Then he said it wasn't, it was a goal for the whole squad. I want to think that, if this is enough to make a PP minister, or a PP minister, friends!, here would burn the street, we would ask for resignation and we would have continuous and daily problems! Sure! Sure! Could not connect with [[Applause]] But that's not all, that's not all, there's worse. The Minister of Defence, this same week, Monday itself, has just tried to put out another fire that caused the Government to propose, on this occasion, to Podemos. The concern came after the closure of the arms sales contract to Saudi Arabia and the consequences on the Navantia contract and the construction of the corveta. Cadiz's in the fight, Cadiz's in the fight! [[Murmurs.]] But I don't say it, you gave the Mayor of Podemos de Cadiz. And the president of Andalusia, who is Mrs. Díaz, is also in a fight, of course! The Socialist Party in Galicia said nothing. It's probably explained by the various leaders in Andalusia and Galicia, but that's another matter that doesn't touch us now. [[Murmurs.]] The Minister of Sports is not going to say anything, because there really are still people who don't believe what happened today. But let's focus on Teresa Ribera, of whom they said yesterday that she was a convinced greenist and that she "faced" in the words of a Member of this Parliament. There's a very appropriate saying for Mrs. Ribera every time she talks. And it's just that every time he talks, the bread goes up. Every time he talks, the bread goes up. You know what I'm talking about? It's hard, in just 100 days, to be able to cause more concerns in the country. [[Murmurs.]] I wish, Mr President, that if you would like to speak to the Socialist Party, you would be allowed to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u121	You know what this is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u122	Also what it's like to be here, but she doesn't stop talking. What are we gonna do to him! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He had a complicated debut for the minister, ma'am...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u123	Quiet, quiet! It's good we're all going through here. That's how you know what this is all about. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, quiet! Please, Mr. Calvo is in use of the word. Yes, I'll focus on the subject well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u124	He had a complicated start. This minister of the energy transition said that "the diesel has the days counted," with which this statement is supposed to be for countless users of diesel vehicles, and above all for the workers working in this industry. That's what you figured out, that the diesel was finished. Then he said no, that it wouldn't disappear, that it was all a balloon probe, that it was to know what the country's opinion was and that it was all controlled. But it turns out that in the same week that I was saying this, at the same time and at the same time, the President of the Government said no, that the Diesel would have to raise the taxes and end it. The minister, logically, said that everything the president said was well said and that she therefore supported all that. I mean, gas oil is so bad, we're going to have to pay a lot more for it because it's polluting a lot. But, finally, speaking has no cancellations, that they speak, then rectify and that's it. [[Murmurs.]] But in this matter which we bring to Parliament today, we cannot wait to see if there will be a correction or not from the minister. The fact is that, from the People's Party, we consider this matter to be serious enough for all of us to begin to put a solution to it or, at least, to facilitate a joint, unanimous opinion on this matter — which we have done just a few months ago in this Parliament too. The Minister's announcement for the Ecological Transition on the immediate closure in 2020 of seven of the fifteen thermal power stations that did not make any investments is a worrying and alarming issue, and that Galicia could have bad consequences if we didn't do everything in our hand to avoid it. His statements placing the closure in 2020 generated a great alarm between the workers of the two existing power stations in Galicia, Meirama and the Bridges — and why he explained all this — and also — something logical — about all the productive and social fabric that depends on these energy infrastructures. The sudden closure of Pontes and Meirama's power stations could cause their districts to lose 110 million euros a year, if we take into account the wages of the workers, the taxes paid by companies, the purchases from local suppliers, etc. We talk about money, yes, but also about people who might lose their jobs. From the point of view of employment, we talk about that directly and indirectly there are more than 1,600 people working in these two centers, between Meirama and The Bridges, 1,600 families. And we also have to evaluate the sudden drop in port traffic, both from the Coruña and from Ferrol, and the negative impact that this would have on industrial development. We're also talking about micro-economics, because this closure, in addition, can suppose in a rather short period of time that we have to assume among all of us an unjustified cost of the price of energy. And that will be noted, above all, at the cost of electricity billing in homes, but also in businesses and their competitiveness. There is a report that manages the sector, made by experts for Deloitte, which points out that the premature closure of coal plants would lead to an increase in the price of electricity which would be around EUR 35,500 million between 2020 and 2030, i.e. EUR 3,500 million per year on average. The experts in this report, as well as in others, are betting on a gradual and slower process to contain the risk of significant increase in electricity and its impact on industrial costs. We're talking about an increase in the price of electricity by 15%, which is worrying. So this process of decarbonization of the Spanish economy that proposes to us the new socialist government must exist at least, or it must be based, on dialogue, on a deep reflection and consensus. In Galicia, the Government of the Union is committed to a proper energy transition through a coherent, economical and balanced energy mix between the different forms of production. The PSOE government cannot have a passive position and shut down the thermal power stations without more, it must guarantee the balance between the price of electricity and sustainability with regard to the environment. Anything else would force the Government to give a powerful explanation about the increase in energy prices that it would produce in Spain. For all this, we must bear in mind that a bad decision on the closure of power stations will have an irreversible impact on our economy, our competitiveness and our families. The PSOE government must be aware, once and for all, that it must be removed from improvisations, to which, unfortunately, we have been accustomed, and to act with prudence and rigour. It's no longer worth talking in every sector, it's not worth saying one thing and adjusting in the afternoon. No, on this subject we are convinced that clarity is needed and that the necessary measures are taken to ensure that Meirama and the Bridges will not suffer. We cannot expect the decisions to be taken in Madrid without the European Parliament having a position, so we appeal to the common sense of the members of this House — which is sometimes the least common sense —. We defend the clean energies and their deployment to stay forever as one of the main engines of the Greek economy. Together is the first to bet on an energy transition based on renewable energies. That's clear. But what we want is to follow the right path, without taking false steps to force us to undo the fact. We want to do it in an orderly and energy mix that's competitive. I insist that Junta is the first to bet on clean energy and combined gas cycles, as it has just shown in its energy guidelines for the next few years. Now, a transition period is required and this transition period to renewable energies is produced gradually and in a common sense. That's why we need to be aware of the need for their coexistence with thermal power plants so that it's a fair, controlled and solidarity transition. Gas Natural Fenosa — now Naturgy — in Meirama and Endesa in the Bridges have just made important investments. Are you going to treat these companies and these settlements as if they didn't do anything?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u125	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u126	Finished, President. Do you know what Endesa means at the Bridges? Do you know what Meirama means in Cerceda? Ask your honourable Member. What will the Socialist Party do? Will you defend the closure of these plants or will you defend all the people who work there to make a proper energy transition? That's the question, and that's what we expect to be clarified in their interventions. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u127	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u128	Well, good morning. Mr. Calvo, the truth is, with the exercise of hypocrisy that you have just done as a spokesman for the aggravating, there was almost a moment in which you convince me with your tone affected. We have less memory and we have hemerotheque to know that the absence of a country project, which is that absence of a country project that has the People's Party in Galicia, combined with an absence of an energy policy, is that it really is thought to pass from the colonial model of overexploitation that we have to a model, taking advantage of that energy transition, which is environmentally and economically sustainable, if it weren't for you to have a large part of responsibility for what might happen in the near future, I would almost convince myself. But we just got here and it looks like you just discovered last week that this country has two large thermoelectric power stations in the Bridges since the 1970s, and in Meirama since the 1980s. It seems they just discovered that this generation form has an important environmental impact on CO2 emissions and acidifying gases. It seems that they have also discovered that there is a European Industrial Emissions Directive and that it must be complied with in particular with that date of 2020, as if it were something novel that the People's Party never has, having the Spanish Presidency, has voted in favour, nor in the European Parliaments nor in style. They also seem to have just discovered the gunpowder, and we're worried about that mental imbalance that the People's Party suddenly has. If you have serious proposals for Galicia to count and Galicia certainly walks in the energy transition, we'll be there. But we also have to denounce hypocrisy, because you are now talking about the danger of jobs, and we also have concerns about it. And we also have a concern about how our country can be adapted to this new stage. We also have a concern about environmental impacts, because if the two power stations were already adapted to these emissions today, we would all breathe better air, because it has consequences in our neighborhoods, it has consequences on all of us, while the prices of light are inflated. You say that when the Socialist Party speaks, the bread goes up, but when you speak, the light goes up, and even today we're hitting a historic record again. And we think that you should worry about a party that doesn't seem to preside over Galician Union and that you never seem to have presided over the state. [[Applause]] Because you know for a long time that the challenges ahead had an unappreciative adaptation, which is 2020. And during this time they did nothing, they didn't propelled Galicia's own position in the face of this adaptation. They also didn't do what they had to for Meirama as a government — which is the specific case that is in danger, because The Bridges did the duties and is fulfilling the emission level — they had also done so. You didn't do your duties as a government. You have even had mandates from this Parliament to do that negotiating role and have just made publicity and propaganda, to make announcements. I have here these wonderful lodgings that Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Count gave us in 2015, announcing the launch of the measures in Meirama, and now we find ourselves that this power station does not meet the emission levels. Well, what were they doing there, I suppose looking for a rotating door to some board of directors; but, of course, little to protect an energy adaptation that allows the maintenance of jobs, that allows better environmental care and places us. That's why since the Galician Nationalist Block today, what we do is we amend your proposal and enrich and propose a higher level of demand in your resolution. Because, in fact, a little more they say that the law is complied with and that government budgets are complied with. For the speech so affected he did, we expected a higher level of exigencies. We propose three questions to you, Mr. Calvo, and we think that, after you tell us that you can't wait for anyone who decides to be Madrid, you will accept our proposals. First of all, whatever there is is is the political initiative of the Galician Union. For that, Junta must promote a negotiating table, where, of course, it is also included in the Meirama Business Committee — which is the situation, I insist, more worrying at the moment — and also the trade union centres, because we cannot do this by excluding workers. We also propose, at the second point, where you talk about capacity mechanisms forgetting that with the previous governments, chaired by the People's Party, those who benefited from these capacity mechanisms were mainly coal-fired central. Galicia has no actual coal, therefore, we understand that, in the face of these debates — that, of course, they are being simultaneous, in the European bodies, in this plenary session of Parliament — Galicia must have its own position, and that for this there is a working group on the energy transition that sees the whole; that it is going on with the central authorities, but that it also sees many other issues; that it has a position of country to defend and not a subsidiary position, depending on who is or is not in the Government and Moncloa. And finally, we made mention of Meirama above all because it is the most worrying situation right now, but we must remember that we have another region, The Bridges, marked by coal along with Cerceda. Both are marked by coal, but also by the desire of the Galician Union and the People's Party where it was. Because you have to remember the little letter of these budgets that you are asking for now to be fulfilled. It must be that as you're used to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u129	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u130	...—Finished, Mr. President—they weren't executing them, now they're asking for that. That little letter mentions the coal plan, the current mining plan, of which you have allowed Galicia to be excluded. So the minimum would be to ask Galicia to come in there, and the minimum would be to claim — as other latitudes are doing — all those pending investments that have not been made before, all those pending, economically fundamental investments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u132	...for reindustrialization, which we should have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u134	...was that coal plan of what you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u136	...and his "yes, baboon" to Mr. Rajoy excluded us on his day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u137	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u138	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u139	Thank you. Madam Presas, as I know it was in the context of not wanting to insult, I would ask you — and we will withdraw — to remove the word "mental imbalance of the People's Party". You also know that's a subject that... No, he said mental imbalance. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Then we'll take it off. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I understood he wasn't going to insult, but he's retired. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been fifteen hours since you gave up Minister Montón and Mr Casado is still there. He said......to see if......that the cases were not equal and, indeed, they are not; he is investigated and Minister Montón was not. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] In fact, they are not the same, I would like, at last, to have this preaching with the example developed properly, as the spokesperson of the People's Party said. [[Applause]] Mr. Calvo, the truth is, listening to you, I am aware that the restricted competition for Environmental Advisor is open. What I didn't know was that the restricted contest was already open for President of the Galician Union. [[Laughter]] I see that there are really high opportunities for professional promotion in the area of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] The headline, without any doubt, should be "from St. Sadurniño to the world." I think that perfectly listens to the theoretical framework of his intervention. [[Laughter]] Yes, yes, of course, I can talk about the free zone, I just don't want to be able to talk about the free zone! [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, I can talk about the free zone perfectly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I can talk about the business that some presidents of the People's Party's Free Zone did. You want us to talk about that, Mr. Tellado? You want us to talk about that? [[Applause]] Do you want us to talk about the purchase price...? [[Applause]] Please! [[Murmurs.]] Do you want...? [[Murmurs.]] I'm in the debate! [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u141	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u142	Do you want us to talk about the land purchase price at Morrazo and the selling price 24 hours later? Is that what we're talking about? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u143	If we don't, we can end up here talking to the worlds of football.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u144	It was Mr. Tellado who said we'd talk about the free zone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u145	That's right. But then let's get to the point, if not, we can end up here talking about the Cup of Europe and the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u146	I'm going to try to get to the point as far as the People's Party spokesman is concerned. Exactly to the same extent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u147	With freedom.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u148	Okay, okay. Good. [[Applause]] Look, the truth is I already had two climate and environmental converts in the People's Party, which were Rajoy's cousin and Mr. Arias Cañete when he left for Brussels. Now we have three, it's you. It is true that until now he has never intervened on this subject, but it seems that he has also passed on to the energy transition and to the ecological transition. Welcome! You present here — and now I am going to the subject because I do care about the Comarcas of Cerceda and The Bridges -- by the way, I want to remind you that in the municipality of Cerceda and in the Bridges we have an absolute majority of the socialists, exactly like the one of Vigo. Those citizens who don't seem to be connected... look, I'd be grateful if Mr. Tellado, who is a spokesperson for the People's Party, had been quiet for a while. [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, yeah, a little! [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u149	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u150	Because when it's... when it's... [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u151	Quiet, please. Silence! Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] So we're going to avoid them all... we're going to avoid them all, those from there and those from here. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada, continue. Let's all calm down. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u152	Unless I know that reducing 200,000 unemployment means that unemployment decreases, which is always an arithmetical advance. I hope that's what I've learned from the intervention in the shadow of the People's Party. Exactly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u153	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u154	The People's Party's initiative is indeed a reversible initiative, as it says in some way. There's a question, Mr. Calvo, that you think you didn't tune conveniently, as I was talking about the Fall Valley and these things. The truth is that it's good to talk about the Fall Valley here, especially because the other day Galician Television — this public television of all Greeks — gave it out, as you know, to the participation of the Francisco Franco Foundation in that public television.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u155	Quiet, please. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u156	The truth is, I see them tense. I don't think they're doing very well with yesterday's research committee, do you? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u157	Quiet. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u158	Give me the feeling, seeing the papers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u159	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u160	Yeah, yeah, it makes me feel like it didn't work out too well because I see them a little tense. It's already summer! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, they didn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you know the advantage, Mr. Trenor? [[Mr. Trenor López utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u161	Let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u162	I'm being scolded.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u163	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u164	...and I'm mad, I'm going back to my job at college.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u165	Please, Mr. Losada, don't come in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u166	What do you mean, no?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u167	Don't come in and answer!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u168	What do you mean, no?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u169	You, please, go to the thermals, man, and to the subject that interests now. Silence! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u170	Mr. Calvo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u171	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u172	Mr. Calvo, you're talking about the investments of Naturgy and Endesa. Look, Naturgy hasn't done anything yet, he has done — as Mrs. Presas said — photographs with Mr. Count and Mr. Feijóo already in 2015; and since then, three years later, he hasn't done anything at all. What you are asking for, first of all, a working group to be done, is going to be an inter-ministerial working group between the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Ecological Transition. And, of course, I think it is very good for the autonomous communities to participate, and we will support the participation of the autonomous communities as we have always done. I think there is nothing to blame for the Socialist Party of Galicia on this issue. The second. The deleted capacity mechanisms shall be put in place. You forgot to say who suppressed them, didn't you? Because you were suppressed by Minister Christmas. Yes, yes, man, we were suppressed by Minister Christmas. [[Mr. Calvo Pouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You say no, but I believe that exactly November 21, 2017, the People's Party, ruled Mr. Rajoy and was Minister of Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda Álvaro Christmas Belda. Anyway, maybe I'm wrong. And the third, indeed, that budgets are met. Well, let's keep the budgets. It would also be good if he had put something on the absolute forgetfulness of the Galician People's Party of claiming the maintenance of the Coal Plan in the mining districts of Cerceda and the Bridges, despite the fact that there is no direct mining at this time, as we all know. I think that would be very good.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u173	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u174	It's over, Mr. President. He forgot to put it in. They have also forgotten in the People's Party, in this case of Madrid, that in the proposal for a law on climate change and energy transition that presented the word mining — or mining in Spanish — and coal does not appear once and for all. That's easy to look for now in... [[Mr. Calvo Pouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I have you presented and is published in the Official General Courts Bulletin. That, therefore, is the relevant issue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u175	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u176	And we included two amendments, a rather obvious one: to make public those Galician energy guidelines of what you have spoken about, but that either are part of the People's Party's biggest arcade or, of course, this humble deputy was not able to find them anywhere except...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u178	No, no, attendance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u179	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u180	To me the oral tradition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u181	Thank you. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u182	I don't need it, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u183	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Don't come in.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u184	I'm a little old...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u185	Don't get into everything. That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u186	...and I prefer written tradition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u188	Just one second, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u189	Thank you. No, look at the clock, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u190	The second, to meet the budgets of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u191	Your time is up. Thank you. Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u192	Good morning. I'm going to focus totally on the matter, because since I don't have any chance to get a chair on those boards of administration where there are real experts in the electric sector like Mr. Bureau, and I don't know if you're going to start to be an expert now, too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u193	We're not going in because, if not, everyone's going in.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u194	Let's get to the point, which the subject is already left out, instead of going with... the ILO report says that, for every job lost by the energy transition, four of the highest quality will be created. So we've been working ever since so that an important part of these jobs can be created in the municipalities affected in Galicia, that is, The Bridges and Cerceda. We have to lead the urgent plans to alleviate the effects of the energy transition, for which there will be very important state and European funds; this line is going to be our replacement amendment. Let's think about the future of the Bridges and Meirama-Cerceda, and don't think about the past. The so-called energy transition contracts have been applied in France, Germany and Great Britain for a long time. I participated in one of them in northern France and I can tell them that success is enormous. A pessimistic region, which I thought had no future, is currently one of the most highly developed regions on the line of everything that is the circular economy industry and the energy transition. In these contracts we involve the municipalities, social, trade union and business institutions to develop strategic plans for economic and industrial development of the Pontes and Cerceda-Meirama municipalities. That is why we also request in our amendment the recovery of the funds of Plan Miner, paralysed by the Government of the People's Party in 2012 — it seems they do not remember — and that they are estimated at 56 million euros in the case of the Bridges and at more than 20 million euros in the case of Cerceda-Meirama. On the other hand, the People's Group, through Mr Calvo, has made it clear what interests you are defending in this Parliament. As I've already commented, perhaps they're doing merit to become experts in the electric sector as well as their illustrious ferrous companion and thus getting a chair on some board of directors, or another chair, so here they comment, things in which I, in fact, have no experience. It does not claim recovery for the municipalities of the funds cancelled by its government in the State in 2012, which are also provided for in the additional provision of one hundred and eighth of the State's 2018 budgets. It's funny, this extra one hundredth eighth layout has three points. You just looked at one: what it means to pay Naturgy money. On the other hand, the other two points, which is to give back to the municipalities what was taken away from them in 2012, seem to have failed to read it. What you're asking here, in your proposal, is to pay you directly 20 million euros from the pocket of the Greeks and the rest of the Spaniards, because they go into the state budgets, to Naturgy. And I'm telling Naturgy because Endesa is already doing her job of adapting the bridge power station to new emission requirements with her own funds. I mean, give Naturgy 20 million euros to fund something that they have to fund. I imagine that the 56,000 million euros of electricity benefit during the years of the crisis, which led to energy poverty to millions of people and to the lack of competitiveness to businesses, will be sufficient, and if they don't, they can also hand over the 30 million euros tariff that will charge us all the Greeks in our receipts with their demand, which also went to all the Greeks, so that we can return the environmental cannons to them. Actually, we are surprised that BNG also supports this 20 million-euro gift to Naturgy. We also question the gift to the electrics of the payments by capacity that we paid in receipt. We don't pay the state, we don't pay Europe, we pay every citizen of Galicia in our receipt. For example, you could assume that Naturgy had hibernated Meirama's power plant by drastically reducing its own staff and eliminating maintenance work, which would eliminate indirect employment and, on the contrary, would charge EUR 3 million a year just to continue to exist, by continuing to light that this power plant exists. It seems very questionable to us. In short, let's think about the future, we demand the replacement of the 76 million euros that you seized at the Bridges and Cerceda-Meirama with the paralysis of Plan Miner in 2012, and we put ourselves already working on energy transition contracts, that by the already proven experiences in the affected districts in Germany, France and Great Britain, they could wish for a path of strong progress and illusion for the Bridges and the Cerceda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u195	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Calvo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm glad I'm from San Sadurniño. It's a pride for me and for all of us who live or are born there. You can't say anyone, Mr. Abel Losada, but fine. I'm not going to talk about appointments in different companies or the adequacy of different people to work. I'm more concerned about government appointments. Because at the front of Navantia they put a mountain engineer... order a trick! Call me a trick! [[Applause]] I'm very quiet, very quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When in Navantia they always asked for people to come from the house like there was. Or that they have appointed a philosopher for the public enterprise of advanced industries, it also reassures me, because the Socialist Party usually does these things. In the Free Zone he didn't, in the Free Zone he didn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know there's a goat because Mr. Knight chose other ways. But, listen,... finally! Madam Presas, I believe that if the level of exigencies we present is so low, I suppose the initiative will be supported. And that shouldn't be, in any case, an impediment to supporting it. You in your initiative forget the Bridges. Tell you he's not in danger. Yes, he's in danger. No, the initiative doesn't show up. He's in danger. The importance of the head of such an important matter in a ministry — the minister in this case — is that investments being made may be in danger. And in the bridges there's a certain feeling of concern, there's it. Go over there, comment with some former companion of yours, Mr. Nandi, and you'll see how he tells you there's a problem in the bridges. They've invested 53 million out of the 200 and I peak million I've committed. Yeah, but look, it's not gonna be that they stop. And this is as a result of announcements made by a minister. I was trying at first to say that it seems like a common practice that ministers one day say one thing and another day say another. But when they say one thing, they put in quarantine many investment decisions or they introduce a rather complicated situation, and that's the problem, that's the problem! So you're in your amendment if you forget about one part. Of the Lord of the Tide, of the spokesperson of the Tide, of course! here you are hiding is that your intention is that all these plants close in the year 2025. That's in the bill they've introduced to Congress and it's published in the BOE this very Monday. Your intention is that all power stations close in 2025. And in the face of the situation that this causes, in the face of the problems they cause in all those areas where there is a power plant, they now come and make an amendment with which they try to whiten out that bill and try to put help for all kinds of people. It doesn't matter what. Yes, it doesn't matter that the aid, the case is that we're going to be filled with money — money from all of us — government decisions. Of all the money, not only Germans, of all Spaniards. For what? To whiteen the true intention of the confederal group of Podemos in the General Courts of the State, where they want the centrals closed in 2025. And that has consequences. And in the Socialist Party, what do you want me to tell you? Look, yesterday at that initiative, at that bill to amend the law of the electricity sector, it was just a matter of modifying the conditions under which the Government could prevent a power plant from closing down. So far it was just that there had to be a supply guarantee, and what if you wanted to put it was: there must be a supply guarantee, but there must also be a guarantee that the price of energy will not go up unmeasuredly. That... hey, what do you want me to tell you? I'm not going to discuss these things with you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u197	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u198	What's the matter? That the Socialist Party and We can in the Courts, and the rest of the parties, voted no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u200	In other words, they voted to shut down the power stations; they voted that they didn't care what the energy price went up. They had discussions here yesterday about this matter. It's going to rise by 15%, or it can rise by 15%. What's the problem with taking measures to ensure that this doesn't prosper, or that doesn't happen? What's the matter?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u201	To amends, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u202	So what do you want me to tell them? If they want to put on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u203	Quiet. Yes, the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u204	I'm done, president. If you want to put all those measures in place and do a lot more, I hope, I hope. Therefore, since this initiative is so simple and it is so low on demand, I suppose all Members of this House will welcome it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u205	What about the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u206	And about the amendments, as ours is so basic, we're going to stay at the core to facilitate the support of the groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u207	You don't accept. Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Socialist, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia to alleviate the deficit of public squares in residences for older persons and for their proper attention
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u208	There is an amendment to this non-law proposal by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u209	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u210	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. We have recently known the report of the Board of Auditors on the control of the care expenditure, of this residential expenditure, to seniors and dependents; a report that involves the finding and strengthening of the concern that we have seen since the PSdeG in recent years; a concern that has been the result of our greatest unemployment because of Mr. Feijóo's policies, the lack of public resources and the loss of quality of public resources, and also by feeding the private sector in the care of these people, while we are leaving our system of public care for the elderly at home. Since the arrival of Mr. Feijóo to the Presidency of the Council of Galicia over nine years ago, zero public administration residences have been established. In fact, the number of public squares has decreased by 7%, the number of public squares has increased by 9%, and there are such curious cases that despite the deficit that even the president of the Union himself recognizes that there are public squares, the Carballino residence, which has concessional squares, it turns out that it is 40% of its capacity. And all this while, according to the 2017 Insertion report, these squares cost more than 8% to all Greeks and Greeks, with a private offer that has increased by 110% since 2010. Today Mr. Feijó gave a data here; that increased the number of squares in residences by 40%. I'm convinced, it's scientific evidence, that all of us here, all of us human beings, we have brains, and of what I'm convinced is also that we have to have a very tough face to, after this increase is due to private residences and residences that are maintained with public funds, come and assume this data to this Parliament. [[Applause]] A delay in senior residences in seven cities. Eight years of offering them, the spokesman of the Socialist Group used to say. With 900 squares there are not even half of the needs that exist right now; neither will the fourth part of these needs be covered. And it must be remembered that, according to data from the IGE, in 2031 there will be more than 780,000 people over 65 years old, an increase of 17% over the current figures, with which, if the situation is unsustainable right now, if it goes on like this, it will be even more so. Today we also saw that for each residence there was an excuse. It was about the land, about the general plan of Ourense... I don't have time, because I would have to talk about that we haven't had budgets since 2014 and many other things for which there is no time; about the local governments where the People's Party is not, and I wonder, why I don't know if it's been for a while, what is the excuse, if the land is from the Union, for the public residences of Pontevedra and Vigo, because these are the lands of the Union of Galicia, with which there is no problem. This lack of functions leads Galicia to be one of the autonomous communities that is in line with the number of residential squares; a residential square rate per resident over 64 years of 3.55%, which is below the state average, of 4.02%, and far from the recommended by the World Health Organization, of 5%. This is not what the Socialist Group says. It is the report of the Board of Auditors itself. Besides, the average processing time to get a square in these residences is shocking. If the regulations you collect are 3 months, 180 days, it's now more than twice, 453. A real calvary not only for those people, who, as their lords understand, do not have their whole life to wait for a residential place, but also for their families. And I want to make a special mention to women, to those dependent caregivers who in many cases are suffocated by the situation they have, without any kind of resource, and who in many cases are also waiting for a residential square. [[Applause]] In addition, the report itself says that the quality of the public service provision has been reduced and that 7,1 % less staff have been invested. This is about doing more with less than we know it's impossible. They don't cover the casualties, they don't cover the vacations, they charge the legally established staff ratio, and even though it's kept more or less, you can say that constant — let's be generous — the number of public squares, have dropped investments to public centers by EUR 2 million over the year 2010. Despite the increase in the number of private squares, I think it is quite clear that the number of inspection personnel has not increased — and in this too it makes a special impression of this document — and the private centers place their broads in our autonomous community with the complicity of the German Government. The report of the Board of Auditors notes that in cases where irregularities have been detected, and after reporting, the deficiencies have not been resolved and the Public Administration has not sanctioned. Of course, we are talking — and give a concrete example — about the San Rosendo Foundation, residence of Valdegodos: register without updating since 2011. The residence of Our Lady of Pains: serious irregularities in the field of staff with professionals who I say count, and those who aren't even able to demonstrate any kind of contractual relationship. I imagine this will be because it is the San Rosendo Foundation, because I understand that in any other case the People's Party and the Galician Union would be acting. [[Applause]] In the face of this scandalous report, rather than rectification, does the German Government do that? Redouble your bet on private assistance to the elders with a bonus to pay private residences with public funds. They haven't just discovered the gunpowder, this exists, an aid for the payment of squares in residences of larger privates, which is being made through the Dependency Act, in particular through the provision of residential services. And of course, it must be remembered that this bonus will also be insufficient, because the average cost of these squares is EUR 1,500 per month, with aids that in most cases will be EUR 490 per month and which can reach up to 700. That's because we're not talking about that new invention of the Major's Houses, where we're going to see and study that regulation to see that people who are going to meet them meet or not all the requirements. It is, ladies and gentlemen, the same strategy as with public childhood schools: leaving a number of unmet squares and inventing a bonus to divert citizens as well as public resources from all of them to all private centers. Today, what we are asking for in this initiative is that the number of squares in higher public management residences is urgently increased, that new centers are built and that those that already exist are optimized, that all squares are placed at their disposal, that they are not now. And it's not too ambitious. What we're asking is that at the end of the legislation we equal that state average, not even that we get to 5% that recommends WHO itself. And, above all, we ask them to abandon complicity with private centres that fail to meet standards, and to provide public centres with human and material resources sufficient to provide quality care to our elders. Today, of course, the president of the board had a great opportunity to rectify his policies and he didn't. They have again, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, a new opportunity not to comply with what the PSdEG says, because now it's not about us anymore, it's not about our parliamentary group or the rest of the opposition, it's about the report of an agency that I think no one doubt about its impartiality, as is the Board of Auditors. What we're really asking right now is that we give our biggest of the resources they need and deserve. By the way, before you finish, you're on time, too. 15 hours ago and 15 minutes ago exactly that the competent minister in this branch submitted his resignation. One person who has to say it all, I want to say it here today, started to reverse in a short time the disaster you did in the Dependency Act, among other things, by returning dignity and respect to these contributions to Social Security, which you eliminated from the caregivers. [[Applause]] What we expect today is that what we have been asking for in recent years: that they change their policies, that they give our elders the resources they need and, of course, they deserve. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u212	Thank you, President. We are debating today a report that actually confirms the analyses that the entire opposition has presented here about the general situation of dependence in our country, but in particular about the homes of older people. The first thing we have to say, and that we repeat it because it's obvious, is that we have a strategic challenge as a people in the care of larger and dependent, a challenge that this Union is not able to respond to. We are -- according to the data from the IGE -- in which people aged 65 already represent more than 24% of the population, but this situation will only increase because our demographic pyramid is going to become a totally reversed pyramid, and this is just a reflection of the country's waste, and by the way, one of the factors contributing to this is precisely the lack of public services of accessible quality throughout the territory. This demographic structure, of course, brings higher dependency rates. We're not just talking about people rated as dependents, which are already enough, 67,864 people with recognised rights, and still goes on a 16% list to wait for payment. We also speak of the fact that in this inquiry today that the President of the Union has underestimated, which is a survey on the self-perception of the dependency, it is an important survey, the results are demolition: we cannot minimize the fact that 4.4% of the people in Greece are dependent on dependence, and that almost 30% of these cases can be classified as being of great dependence. Plus, this survey says that it has increased the number of people who perform care tasks of dependent people; more than 62% of these people are women; and most of them are over 45 years old. It also says this survey that 30% of them spend more than 70 hours a week on this task. Thus, acting with public services in the age of dependence and older people is fundamental to women's lives, because they are the ones who suffer from greater dependence and aging, but also to act by improving the situation of these caregivers. In this structural framework of our country, at which the Board of Auditors is unable to attend, the Board of Auditors analyses a number of cases in the residential service for older people who, of course, should be the last resort. It should be preceded by a global policy of prevention and comprehensive services in the territory, but we do not have them either. What happens when you opt for this last resort? Well, the Board of Auditors gives a number of recommendations and has a number of conclusions, which we have already put forward in Marea in this Parliament, without any response from the Board. First of all, it's obvious privatization, the bet on the private model, and it's that the percentage of private squares in senior residences in our country is the largest in the whole state. This is the record of the Government of the Union, of the Government of the United Nations, Feijóo: 67% of private squares above the total, which cost -- as I remember the socialist voicer -- 8% more than those managed directly, is paid by 8% more than by those managed directly, and is that the concert is the mode of management that has increased most in recent years. That's the government record of Feijóo: reducing the percentage of public squares in the system. There's a lack of squares, we've said it many times. The ratio of squares in residences for every 100 people over 65 is one of the lowest in the state; very far from that 5% that recommends WHO, only three squares for every 100 people older. But it is important that the pace at which these squares are increasing is totally insufficient with respect to the pace at which the ageing of the population runs. Moreover, this lack of squares is also even more serious in the case of dependent people, because only two public centers in the Union offer exclusive squares for dependents. And this situation, if we look at it at the territorial level, is even more unfair for the provinces of Ourense and Lugo. We are in the middle of a demographic debate and in that observatory some documents have already come out on the situation of the Greek population. You go to that observatory document, to the map where you see the percentage of aging of the Welsh Town Councils, and look at the provinces of Lugo and Ourense, which are the least public squares they have, and also look at the coincidence between that lack of public squares and the extension of the San Rosendo Foundation in the case of Ourense, or, for example, the Messengers of Peace in the case of the Lugo Navy. And you have this concept of public services, of necessary services, which are opportunities for private business. I don't have time to stop at all points in this report, but let's go to one that is excessively demolient and that we've already denounced it since the beginning of the legislation, and it's just that Junta has saved irresponsibly in direct care staff when it has increased or maintained stable that offer of squares and systematically no short-term medical leave has been covered, nor permits, nor vacations have been replaced entirely. This is very serious, because we're talking about an already overcrowded staff, who have been cut off from him by keeping that Article 19 of the Fifth Agreement suspended.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u213	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u214	...—it's over—and that's why we make that amendment: it's also included that the cut-off of rights to public staff has already been completed, that they have loaded an increase in the care burden on their backs, and they have horrifiedly increased the casualties due to over effort. It's not to be welcomed the situation in which the largest people of Wales find themselves in the joint residences, they also need to improve their facilities, and above all, they have to change their model, and that can only be done by expelling this People's Party from the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u215	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u216	Good day again. The BNG will support this extensive initiative presented today by the Socialist Party, which has an issue that we have also addressed on several occasions: the general situation of dependence and the care of the elders in our country, which represents an increasing percentage of our population. Galicia has a very old population. People over the age of 65 are already over 25% of our population, and those over the age of 80 are about 8%, and it's also an increasing trend. We are concerned that you persist from the Government in launching the message of being champions: if you are the champions of the most concerned, if you are the champions of the lowest waiting lists, if you are the champions of the highest number of people attended in relation to dependency. What you don't want later is to demean that reality, the reality that that attention to the dependency hides that are being treated with lower-cost resources. In that data, in addition, the attention to dependent people is with lower-cost resources, low-cost resources, and what you don't mean is that the resources that are really the most investment are the ones that are not being given. Because, according to that data that Joine gives, it increases the number of people attended, when the budget doesn't progress. Which means that more people attended, with the same budget, there's a lower cost per person cared for and a lower cost resource. They also worry about, and very much about, the model that the People's Party is pushing; a model where it bets itself to capitalize on private companies and not to create public devices. The model implemented in children's schools is the model that is now being waged to care for older people. That speech that the People's Party kept slamming about that Galicia is the best place to be born, that Galicia is the best place to be a bigger person. On this model of the Children's Houses, and now on that model of the houses for our seniors, on which you are betting on the bonds and capitalizing the private company and not on creating resources. That is where this initiative of the Socialist Party of Residences for Older Persons is framed. The Socialist Party's representative was asked why today, in the intervention of the President of the Union, he intended to give an explanation of why this promise of the construction of a public residence in each of the seven cities made a year ago, and of what he never heard again, the President of the Union said there were two on which the lands were from the Union. Why? What was the excuse? For example, in Pontevedra the land is from Junta but there is a hospital operating on that land. And so long as Gran Montecelo is not made, the Provincial Hospital does not dislodge and if you can move the patients who are cared for there to the Great Montecelo, you can't make residence in that space, with which, of course, that promise won't be verified in this legislation. The Grand Montecelo has been paralysed and unexecuted for years, for the position totally contrary to the interests of the population, that he has not carried out and given forward to that hospital so much-needed. In Galicia the squares for larger residences are totally insufficient, it doesn't correspond to the performance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u217	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u218	...from Galician Union in this matter with the needs of the country, there is no planning. And there is, of course, no bet for creating such a necessary resource. I have no time — finished, President — to talk about what is also the evaluation and waiting times for the granting of squares in these residences. The reality is that the data that the People's Party continuously offers do not appear to be reality, neither in times of waiting, nor in squares, nor in anything like it. And the reality, if we talk about big dependents, is that families, and basically women, what they have to do is put the reality of caring for those bigger ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. On behalf of the Galician People's Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u220	Thank you. Good morning. Today we have just discovered that all residences, day centers, services to care for seniors in dependency, were built and launched in Galicia in the period 2005-2009. Before 2005 there was absolutely nothing, no service for the elders, and after 2009 there was nothing either. Therefore, all the greatest in Galicia, of course, have to thank the Bipartite, because it was the only Government in Galicia who cared about the greatest. It was the only government that built residences and the only government that set up day centers. [[Applause]] The reality — this seems to be a joke, but with questions such as these cannot be mocked — is that the spokespersons of the parliamentary groups are coming up here saying that the Government Feijóo is betting on the privatization of residences, when we all know — and you first, because they were in the Government — that during the period 2005-2009 the only thing that was done was not to build residences or day centers, but to give books. The bookstores haven't invented them now Mr. Feijóo, the bookstores are collected in the Dependency Act of 2006. And the first president who used the books — because it seemed that they were more suited to the Vice-President of the Union, Mr Quintana — was Mr Quintana. Libranzas! Books for dependent persons. I wasn't betting on services, I wasn't betting on residences -- not, Mrs. Pontón, I wasn't betting on day centers; I was betting on books, because I was trying to care for people in a faster way. With regard to the report of the Board of Auditors, on the initiative of the Socialist Member, the President of the Board has already said that the Board not only respects its recommendations but works to comply with them. We're talking about a report that analyzes the period 2012-2015, but I would also like to highlight the data from the latest report from the Ministry of Health, Consumers and Wellness, because that report refers to the dependency system in July of this year. That report, drawn up by the ministry, says Galicia has registered a remarkable boost to the attention of the dependency. And, of course, as we do not doubt the impartiality of the report of the Board of Auditors, Mrs Blanco will not doubt the impartiality report of the Ministry of Health, Consumers and Welfare. Our community, Galicia, has gone from having a 61.5 percent payout ratio in 2015 to a 85.1 percent payout ratio in July 2018, which places Galicia at seven points above the state government average. This means that Galicia is responding to 85.1 percent of dependent people, that the average state government is seven points lower than the average of Galicia, and that Galicia has increased its coverage by more than 23%. And this effort to care for the biggest is possible thanks to the effort to increase economic resources in the last nine years. Look, in 2018, 360 million euros are allocated to care for dependent people; 30 million euros more than in 2017, 243 million euros more than in 2009. And the goal of Joining is to extend coverage to more than 61,000 people. In principle it was the objective of the legislation, now the president of the board says it is the goal of this year: before the end of 2018, 60,000 people in dependency will be cared for. And, of course, we believe that in this too something will have to do with the policy of the Galician Union by strengthening the home aid service. And speaking specifically of public squares in residences, they are currently exactly 7,820 public squares in residences or concerted with public funds, 40% more than in 2009. But here is the lack of knowledge, the Socialist Mrs believes that these squares are absolutely all in private residences. No, check the data, they're in municipal residences, social-initiative residences of social entities that are doing essential work with older people and that are not in the mood of profit. So check the percentage of what you're talking about. In 2018 it is planned to set up 197 new squares in residences for older people, homes of the Galego Consortium of Social Services. And by the end of this year, Galicia will have 8,000 public squares in residences, besides these seven new residences. Now since the Galician Union is planning the construction of seven new residences — which you say are necessary — explains the President of the Union what the construction of those residences is in, and you come here saying that the People's Party is making excuses. No, let's see if they're clear. If you want those seven residences in the seven big cities, if you don't want them, or that's exactly what you want. In 2017 the cost of caring for dependent people in Galicia was 334 million euros. Do you know how much you've brought to Galicia from these 334 million euros? 75%. Do you know how much the state has contributed? Twenty-five percent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u221	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u222	So — finished, President — on the one hand, the Galician Union will continue to strengthen the home aid service and the public residence network. But on the other hand, we also have to agree that the State will fulfil that commitment it has acquired from the autonomous communities to review the system of dependency financing and the increase in funds. Of course, we hope that this fundamental concern of the Socialist Party of Galicia is also on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u224	Thank you very much, President. We're going to accept the Amendment of In Marea because we understand that it complements our initiative. And we also appreciate BNG's support for this issue. It's not privatizing. I'm going to give a concrete example of privatization and its dangerous friendships. Lobios residence in Ourense. They've been on the Lower Limitia, in that area, waiting exactly eight years for that election promise to be fulfilled. At the gates of the 2016 autonomous elections, the Social Policy Adviser met with the Mayor of Lobios, of the People's Party, and announced: "King Varela announces the support of the Galician Union in the future construction of a major residence in the municipality of Lobios." What happened at last, ladies and gentlemen, after the autonomous elections passed?: "The San Rosendo Foundation will make three new residences", and among them is, as it could not be otherwise, the residence of Lobios. What is the San Rosendo Foundation? Who's the compound? The honorary chairman of the San Rosendo Foundation — and I will dissipate — is Benigno Moure, a member of the People's Party, too. Benigno Moure is a person sentenced to a firm sentence of five years' imprisonment due to improper and continued appropriation in 2008. The court considered it proved that it deceived a woman with Alzheimer's who was entering one of the hieriacs he was managing, that it subtracted almost 600,000 euros by entering them into the entity's bank account and that it transferred to this foundation more than 60 properties. It turns out that this residence will be done by the San Rosendo Foundation, Mr. Benigno Moure — this person, I repeat, convicted of stealing an old man with Alzheimer's. Here you see it in the photo, the president of the House of Ourense, Mr Baltar, handing over to Benigno Moure and the mayor of Lobios. This is a very clear example of privatization that I understand you will not deny. [[Applause]] You defend your own, why? Because, Madam, one wolf didn't eat it or bite it, we know it by this very issue; and you've been defending this person for many years. In 2011, when the sentence was heard: "The PP, with Baltar in his head, is crushed to the priest condemned for cheating on an old lady." Some honourable Member who is in this House was in this demonstration defending a person, a priest, who drew money — I repeat — an elder with Alzheimer's. It's not past, it's present, because the province of Ourense is precisely the province where the number of private residences with this caciquil chiringuit has been mounted for a long time. And we'll have time throughout the legislation to talk about the subject of spas and many other issues that they have with them as well. And if this example is not worth it, I'll leave it to the Presidency of the House — this chart of the Board of Auditors — which you don't know if the page has passed or forgotten — where the increase in private squares is perfectly reflected in respect of the others. And, of course, following with the wolves, the wolf loses his hair but not his hands. Of course, Madam, we must also have a lot of jets to come here — or a lot of faces, let me talk about 50% of dependency funding.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u225	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u226	When I listened to you on full summer vacations to denounce and ask the Government of Spain, I say, what have you been doing all these years? Were they not listening to them in Madrid or were they really the same wolf, Rajoy and Feijóo and the social policy advisor as well, about the minister? With regard to squares, of course, they always follow the subject of financing. Of course, there's more funding today than 20 years ago, because the Dependency Act was not put in place! And I won't get tired... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u228	...to repeat it in this rostrum — already finished, president —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u229	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u230	Of course, it's very difficult to overcome the record of doing it wrong...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u231	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u232	...of the candidate of the People's Party of the Crown.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u233	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u234	Let's see if now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u235	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u236	...because the social policy advisor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u237	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u238	...candid of the People's Party of Ferrol...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u239	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u240	...he places us at the queue in public residences...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u241	Mrs. Blanco, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u242	...we have to throw rockets. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u243	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and 14 other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the announcement by the Central Government concerning the assumption of the financial debt generated in the port of Valencia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u244	There are amendments from all groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u245	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor of Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u246	Good morning. Thank you, President. Today we have an initiative that has a very clear objective that we are supposed to be common to all Members of this House, which is to defend the interests of Galicia and the interests of the Greeks above other interests or other functions. Yesterday Mr. Villoslada said that in a hundred days we wanted everything from Sanchez, but the truth is that in a hundred days there are records of corrections in that Government, there is a record of breaking the rules of the game and there is also a record of benefiting other autonomous communities and giving back to Galicia. So we want an exigencies of equal treatment, in this case with regard to the ports of Greek of general interest. Over the past few years, the Galician People's Parliamentary Group and the People's Party themselves have come to support the construction and demand the development of the Welsh port fabric, focusing this support on the creation of services that fully operate and competitiveness these docks, which are the primary objectives of the ports. We therefore believe that all the ports of general interest of the state in Galicia with a decision by Pedro Sánchez were somehow discriminated against. In the case of Vigo, for example, because of the proximity that I may have with this port, the bet has been translated into building structures, for example, for cruises, the transformation of buildings for social use and the provision of means, for example, with the new ramp of car silo of the Bouzas area, the projection of railway access to this area. And so we have the different ports located in the different villages and which belong in addition to the state. All these requests — I insist — together with other ports — are fair and in tune with what we expect of a sensible government, a government that does not break the rules of the game, which is a fair and equal treatment between autonomous communities, and in this case and in this LNP centered on the ports of Galicia. But when there is a government — as I say — like that of Sánchez who instead of meeting its obligations to deal with important issues, such as self-financing or how they are, for example, topics in this case of port infrastructure, what it does is to pay and forgive debts to other ports of other autonomous communities, then we have to react, because Galicia, as always, is discriminated against, and when the PSOE governs Madrid Galicia is always discriminated. Therefore, you will also know what I mean because President Sánchez has been in office for 100 days, has been paying the favors to Podemos for 100 days, paying the favors to the nationalist and independentist parties who voted for that motion of censure. [[Murmurs.]] They're your government partners and you have to comply. And a hundred days I think it's even a long time to pay them all the favors to be at Moncloa today. When in his investment speech, Sánchez was already speaking with a very committed tone, and he stood up as the addition of the dialogue, he stood up as the addition of negotiations, with the issue of autonomous funding as a priority, but suddenly he comes to the government and does everything the opposite, because these things happen, and one of the main discriminated against in this case is Galicia. Because we're already seeing again how this government is giving Galicia its back. As has happened in history with many offices of the Socialist Party who had other responsibilities in Brussels and Madrid, who have always made prejudicial decisions for our autonomous community. It's funny to see how Valencian Ximo Puig, about a year ago, went out on the street, asking for a debate of self-financing, demanding Rajoy a debate in depth, and suddenly arrives this year, with Sánchez as president, at the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council he abstained at first and then, when Abalos and Sánchez give and forgive the debt of the port of Valencia, radically change the vote. The truth is that this — known in colloquial language — is the purchase of a vote, discriminating other autonomous communities, discriminating other ports of the state. Therefore, the People's Party of Galicia and the People's Parliamentary Group react to the minute and call for equal treatment for the ports of Galicia, taking into account, of course, the absolute disloyalty of Pedro Sánchez with the rest of the autonomous communities. And the truth is, I think this decision is going to land in addition to many agreements that have been established so far, or at least principles according to the Socialist Party, between the People's Party and the Socialist Party, to talk about self-financing, to speak on the Tax and Financial Policy Council in seriousness and depth on this subject. But now we see that there is indeed a difference between the autonomous communities governed by the People's Party and the Socialist Party. So we see that the Socialist Party of Galicia feels when there's this way of dealing with self-financing. We, in the face of a decision of this gravity — I insist — will always defend the ports of general interest and of Greek interest here in Galicia. Besides, I say we always do, we don't change our decisions. Yesterday we were also talking about a specific motion in the Coruña on the port of the Coruña, and we also see how the Socialist Party is changing the speech. The People's Party — as Mr Fernández Prado said — has always asked for the same and voted for the same to defend the interest of the port of the Coruña. That's why the Langosteira and Canelinas state-of-the-art infrastructures join Vigo's car silos — as I say — the railway access to the port of Vilagarcia, the improvements of operation for marine containers. All these works were generally taken over by the port authorities themselves and with fundamental responsibility for their own economic resources; the question of an important economic and budgetary effort on the part of those ports, those port authorities and which derives from a difficult balance which can only be maintained as a result of improvement in port management, the achievement of a greater movement of commodities and the provision of services. Of course, in Valencia, Sánchez has just told you that all that management of all the ports and all the ports in Galicia as well as all the efforts are absolutely useless. That's because I'm from the same political party. Those bets and their related costs are carried out within the framework of rules, as I have said before, of rules always expressed by the different governments of Spain, and in addition to those which were not forgiven the debt of any port of general interest of the State, conditions that were identical to them all. I insist that when the way to reach the Moncloa is through a motion supported by independent parties, supported by Podemos and you have to be paying favors you cannot make a serious and responsible government. Therefore, Sánchez ultimately breaks the rules of the game in a political compaction exercise with Ximo Puig and absolute disloyalty with the rest of the national territory. And how? Well, assuming in the Tax and Finance Policy Council the debt generated in Valencia by the Americas Cup and Formula 1. Moreover, I insist that it is very different from what we have asked for today for the ports of Greece, which is based primarily on infrastructure and increased competitiveness, from what Mr Sánchez has done with Valencia. It seems to us an absolute aberration and an irresponsibility. We believe from the Galician People's Party — and we hope that all groups of this camera will consider the same — that this is discrimination against the Greeks. So we need the Central Government to react and know that Galicia needs to have at least the same treatment as other autonomous communities. Or are you going to refuse to meet the needs of edge financing Langosteira, its railway access, its derivative of the use of the inland shores of the Coruña? Will you refuse to grant that same equity to the deal and the wager for railway access to Vigo's round terminal? Are you going to refuse to verify equality of attention to rail access to the outside port of Ferrol or through Canelinas' own infrastructure? Or will they refuse to meet other needs shown by the ports of Marín, of San Cibrao, of Vilagarcia? These ports are the ones we have to worry about here in this parliament, not the port of Valencia. But you, just for trying to fix another bottle mistake to Sánchez, are able to refuse and not support the ports of general interest. So if anything stands out in that government is the corrections, but I hope that here in Galicia the Socialist Party will keep its line of defending at least the Greek interests. They should note and learn from responsible presidents and self-government loyal — including the Socialist Party — that they meet and speak seriously and with capitals — as they like — of autonomous funding, such as that of Aragon, that of Asturias, that of Castela-A Mancha, along with that of Castela and León, Rioxa and Galicia. Those presidents, representing 50 percent of the population throughout Spain, agreed to develop a common strategy to talk about autonomous funding by consensus, to ensure equal public services, regardless of the autonomous community we are talking about, and to develop a common strategy also regarding the demographic challenge. I mean, to negotiate all without privileges, with the letters on the table and not behind and -- as I said before -- buying votes. This is how politics is done, how we understand the way politics is done, how we believe today that we have to demand that the ports of Galicia not be discriminated against. We therefore ask — as long as I am left — the three points — you already have the GNP to know what it really says — an equal treatment and consideration between the different Portuguese port authorities in relation to Valencia in terms of the financing and assumption of the debts incurred; we ask for economic compensation similar to the decisions taken in the case of the port of Valencia, which frees the port authorities from the economic charges generated to carry out investments and infrastructures that improve the competitiveness and the economic situation of the districts in which they are found, that is the most important; and we request the holding of extraordinary administrative councils to address the ports of the State with the objective of giving way for the release of debts or compensation in investments. We expect the unanimous support of the House because we believe this is just for Galicia, because we also believe that we will have far more competitive ports and ready ports for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u248	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. The truth is we're here today at the beginning of the change in the political strategy of the People's Party that is based only on a fact: the People's Party no longer rules in the state and now they're starting to move their position. And this isn't something new. Here we're seeing a practice that's a very old practice, and it's how state parties in Galicia change their positions in relation to whether they're in government or whether they're in opposition in Madrid. And this is a negative policy for this country. I'm very grateful that now when a government negotiates with another political force or another government matters for its country, it's to buy votes, of course. I think Mr. Rajoy has negotiated with the PNV three thousand five hundred million euros for the approval of the budgets. At that time it was state politics. [[Applause]] What's a pity to me is that we have an absent president who finally does the panoli, because, you have to say this way, he's incapable of defending the interests of our country, and he never defended anything. Of course, because they rescued the Madrid radials, and here at AP-9, we have to pay our fees. Your government with the PNV lords has bought a Basque electric fare, and here we are paid the price of light and put a tariff on us. Of course, now they remember that the state owes us one hundred and eighty-six million euros depending, when they voted twice in this parliament against claiming Mr. Rajoy. It's just that it's all a real coat of hair. [[Applause]] And the problem is, that's how it goes. Because the discrimination of the ports, the discrimination of the ports, we understand each other now. Of course, they didn't want to talk about the outer port of the Coruña, and I understand it's a difficult subject for you. It's hard because in 2004 it was Mr. Aznar with Mr. Fraga, Mr. Feijóo praising that, and - it is also necessary to say - with Paco Vázquez who made an agreement that was a discrimination in every rule with Galicia. Because it's an external port of state ownership and you signed an agreement saying that to finance it, you had to sell the inner edge of the city of Coruña. And the People's Party comes here to teach us a lesson in coherence... what? But if you change your mind continuously and all they care about are votes and being faithful to the leadership of your party in Madrid. Because while you signed this shameful agreement the state invested seven hundred million euros in the ports of Xixon, invested one billion euros in the port of Valencia, in Barcelona one thousand three hundred, in Bilbao two billion, and now you've just discovered discrimination. What a pity, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that in May, when the BNG was defending in this parliament that the State had financed the foreign port, you had voted against, because, of course, Mariano Rajoy was ruling, and it would not be that he was upset and it would not be that they defended Galicia. It's okay now. Welcome to Galicia's interests! Let's see if this is good for the president to put his batteries on and actually start doing something, even if it's opportunism, to defend the interests of this country. And we in fact are going to be consistent at the BNG and we will continue to defend exactly the same, because, yes, Galicia cannot be discriminated against; she could not be discriminated against with Mr Rajoy and we don't think she can be discriminated against with Mr Sánchez either. And in our amendment, we believe that we have to carry out exactly how we have to do these things. So we say yes, that the external port of the Coruña finances the state to a hundred percent, because it is a state work that has promised us — by the way, after the Prestige — and it cannot be that the State has not put even a single euro to finance a port that is its title. We also, of course, believe that we need to put other more specific needs on the table. Indeed, investments in other ports, such as the port of Vigo. And for this, it's also important that the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the other political forces put their batteries on. And we, who would like to agree on this issue, believe that, for what we vote here and then have solidity, state-level forces must undertake to defend the same in Madrid. And now that the budgets are being negotiated, for example, Mr Feijóo can say that he compromises the support of Members and Members of the People's Party in exchange for investments and fair treatment for our country, for example, in port matters. Or are the Members and the Members of the House of Commons voting against these budgets? It would be nice if they told us. We believe that it has to be a general position that this Parliament demands from Members and Members. And finally, if we want to get out of this wheel where we're always on discrimination, with which the state will pull out, it would be logical that we had something more of a country's ambition. And that's why we propose that we request the transfer of state ports to Galicia, because the state does a great deal of business with those ports. And we believe that they are the basis for us to be able to put in place a port system, which allows us to make important decisions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u249	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u250	...and not being at the heart of these two-party pimpampumums, which are really boring and, above all, useless to this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u251	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u252	Thank you, President. Good morning. Mrs. Egerique, after the placard they're making in Vigo, go to today's paper to defend, at least for now and from that perspective, this PNL. I was talking about the 100 days of Pedro Sánchez, who I see they worry a lot because at the bottom I think they still don't understand and they don't share that in European parliamentarianism and Spanish parliamentaryism you can access the government as you have agreed to the government. They still don't understand it, and that's why it costs them so much to assume a progressive government, so it costs them so much. Do you know what you did in 100 days, Pedro Sánchez and the Central Government about Valencia? Covering the hole they made in Valencia's accounts with Formula 1 themes, with the themes of the American Cup, they even closed the pope. [[Applause]] These are tremendous things they did in the Valencian community, with Zaplana, with Cans, with Rita Barbera. That's a commitment that the Central Government had to make to help the Valencian Community. [[Murmurs.]] However, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I do not think it is appropriate to enter into debates or territorial discrimination, because we already know what the dynamics of territorial confrontation are, for example, between themes of AVE, themes of the Mediterranean corridor, etc. It is true — as it was said — that what we are suffering is the ultimate inability and the absolute lack of competence of President Feijóo to position Galicia in Spain, now and for seven years of the People's Party's government. [[Applause]] But it seems to be what we're talking about when we deal with a big deal, because I think it could and should come out of a great deal through the city and the port of the Crown, that even the People's Party in the defense of this PNL should rectify it to bring that position back to that great agreement that we could achieve. And in that sense, by going to the first exposition paragraph of the GNP that they presented for this debate, we would deny the greatest. We deny the greatest in that they say that over the last few years the People's Group in the Galician Parliament has been supporting in various ways — I do not know which — the construction and development of the Portuguese port fabric. It's not true. I deny the biggest of this LNP. We, in any event, from the Party of the Socialists of Galicia, from the Party of Socialists in the Coruña and of course it will be from the Central Government, have included a clause in that great agreement precisely so that they will be moved from the Central Government — and so we will demand — the investment plans necessary for all the port authorities of Galicia, both to cover the necessary investments with state funds and even to cover financial burdens incurred to carry forward those investments. By the way, it was also Mr. Rajoy's governments who agreed to free transfers of ports of general interest. It wasn't the case of the Coruña port. Indeed, the management of the People's Party in this case in the port of the Coruña -- because it's what they use to bring to the collation this PNL, because if I don't think they wouldn't be interested in talking about ports of general interest in this chamber -- the management of the People's Party in relation to ports and ports of general interest is a story of a continued failure, at least as far as the Langoster tip is concerned. And we know perfectly well that the failures as we have announced or remembered from that announcement by the Chinese group B3, which planned to invest two hundred and seventy million, from Pemex's big picture, this is Pemex's big picture, this was the great point-of-point future Langosteira in the Pemex agreement by Mr. Feijóo. [[Mr. Díaz Villoslada shows the House a leaflet with a picture.]] We would also like to know, as we have said, how are the denials of the Oil Coruna Deposit facility, to invest more than thirty million euros and occupy twenty-five percent of the Langosteira tip. I hope Mr. Enrique Losada at some point accounts for his management in front of the Port Authority of the Crown, who is more than leading a port of general interest, seems to want to intervene in the city. I am not going to report, because here are the reports of the Court of Auditors for the financial years 2012, 2013 and 2014 of the Harbour Authority of the Coruña. By the way, these are the accounts of the 2017 Port of Coruña, and we can even see how the management of the People's Party did more debt, because it turns out that the tunnel works are pending to claim more than ten million euros. [[Mr. Díaz Villoslada shows the House a leaflet.]] Mrs. Egerique, I don't think this is an example of the management of the People's Party in port matters of general interest which are reflecting the evolution of accounts and the inability of the management of popular governments in Coruña, Santiago and Madrid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u253	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u254	...to meet the needs of the port. In any case, we are from the Socialist Party in condition, of course, to come to a great agreement to defend the port of Coruña and to defend the necessary measures that guarantee the viability and sustainability of the port. The socialists were there in 2004, and for twenty-three years we showed it from governments in the Coruña, Santiago and Madrid, and we'll prove it again, they're safe. The People's Party can't say the same thing. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u255	Thank you, Mr. Villoslada. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u256	Good morning. Well, first of all to clarify two concepts: First of all, in our non-law proposition yesterday, we weren't talking only about the port of Coruña, we were talking from an overview of what must be an action not to allow a comparative harm, which may be if there isn't an action similar to what was done with Valencia, and we specified the situation of Coruña because as for debt there is no other similar situation in Galicia. The debt of the port of Coruña is three hundred eight million, a loan of two hundred million; the debt of the port of Vigo is 21.4 million, a loan of nine million euros. There's no comparison, the port of Vigo has other problems to deal with, and we also ask for it, but there's no comparison. Then another concept that I would like to clarify is that the problem, Mrs. Egerique, is not the performance of Ximo Puig, it is not. He served as president of Valencians and Valencians and defended the interests of Valencians and Valencians. The problem is Mr Feijóo's non-acting, neither with the Rajoy Government nor with the Socialist Government, who did not exercise as president of the Greeks and the Greeks and who acted as a militant of the People's Party. And so he painted our hair! Because speaking of aggravations, the aggravations don't start now, they don't start with the socialist government. Galician aggravations have suffered in these years of popular governments in Madrid and Santiago with the highways, with the rescue of the radials, while we have to bear the prices of AP-9, rising and rising, a path that unites the whole country from north to south. That's a big aggravation. And Mr. Feijóo didn't say mu. We had to endure the aggravation that Catalan and Basque highways were being crossed, and if we denied the unanimous agreement of this parliament to transfer AP-9, with methods besides antidemocratic, manipulators and liars. Of course there were aggravating! Very serious injuries. And there have been a number of injuries in the country too, because another of the issues of these debates is the failure of a country project. And that's where the game of localism is born, where one can't say the same thing in the Coruña as in Vigo. And as long as the political forces can't say the same thing in the Coruña as in Vigo, so it will go to us, so it will go without a country project. Because you were talking about defending the competitiveness and functioning of the Greek ports. The data don't say that. We talk a lot about Porto Airport and its competition with Vigo, Coruña and Santiago. But we can also talk about the port of Legions and the data, which keeps growing. Only that port moves more merchandise than all the Greek ports, and it's eating land at steep steps. While the Government here is always installed in the localist discourse, it cannot maintain the same speech in the Coruña as in Vigo. And as long as that happens, we all pay a huge cost. Because the data is there, and the data is not random, it's because the infrastructures are thought of as the country key, and not here, the infrastructures are thought of as the local key, of my little leary. And that passes bill to all the ports of Greece, which lose fast positions with Legions. What did the People's Party do from the Central Government and from the Harbour Authority Mr. López Veiga on the Ro-Ro connection in Vigo and on the Vigo-Porto connection?, what did you do?, what did you advance that? Speaking of aggravating, why does Ferrol have to pay his railway connection with an accessibility fund loan? Here we see Mr. Rey Varela, future candidate of the People's Party, and Diego Calvo, also in this photo, assuming a loan, when the railway connection of the port of Coruña has just been reached with an agreement to be financed from state funds. [[Mr. Sánchez García shows him a leaflet with a picture in the Chamber.]] The damage is here, because there's no country project here. We continue with the fights between: when I'm in opposition, you're ruling, and when I'm ruling, you're in opposition, when I'm from Vigo or I'm from the Crown... and we don't have a proposal for the whole country. That's what sadly happens. And that's how it goes with the data from the Greek ports! So, of course, we are for Galicia not to discriminate, there is no such aggravating; of course we agree on it, but without traps and without disguise the reality of the past few years. He was made by a absent president when he had to say and defend the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks, totally absent. And here are the results. That's why we tabled our amendment. Our amendment, I think, is partly in the sense of what they present, in part alone, but our amendment brings up different, more concrete questions, and we expect their answer before our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u257	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. The author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u258	Well, thank you President. Mrs. Pontón, I told you we're not the same. Besides, you now have no representation in Madrid, but they supported Mr. Zapatero's budgets at a given time, with decisions in addition to aggravations to Galicia as well. And if they were in Madrid, they would probably be supporting this government, as the rest of the nationalist parties are doing. Therefore, we are not equal either because in the period of government of Mariano Rajoy, of the People's Party, there has never been an aggravating of these characteristics with the ports of Galicia, forgiving a debt to Valencia, and in addition to what you say by Formula 1 and by different events, that we have not done in the People's Party of Galicia, by the way. [[Murmurs.]] The Socialist Party says I have to make a paperboard. I don't do any paperwork, I defend Vigo's interests here, I defend Galicia's interests in general here. And the paperboard is what you do with reference to the city of Coruña, what you do with reference to the city of Vigo, what you do in the Parliament of Galicia. Where's the Galician Socialist Party? We don't know what interests you want to defend, because you change your votes, you change your requests. Look: we've always stayed in the same place with reference to ports, with reference to the transfer of AP-9. Because Mr. Sánchez was talking about Feijóo not defending Galician interests. We have been asking for the transfer of AP-9 with the same vote, Mr Feijóo since he is a Member and even President of the Union. And since there's no favor deals -- which is what Sánchez did with Ximo Puig -- because it's a tray favor deal, because we have to wait for the procedures to be the ones. It is the responsibility of the People's Party in the Government of Spain and responsibility of the People's Party of Galicia here in Parliament and in the Council of Galicia itself. So they don't put us in the same bag in Marea and the Block, because we're not the same. And you'll see in the Government of Sánchez — as you're already seeing — the decisions are going through, the corrections are going through, and they're making an aggravations to Galicia, which are already being seen in the reference to AP-9, as regards the ports of Greece, as regards the AVE, etc. We always keep the same position and we'll keep it. As far as amendments are concerned, I believe that the amendments tabled by the three groups have a very similar essence to the transaction we are going to vote on and approve with the GNP that presented in Marea. I believe that this GNP is basically a matter of justice and that it also encompasses all the ports of interest of the State in Galicia. And I believe that with the vote by the En Marea GNP, which I believe we will support in the House, both sensibilities are collected. So we're going to keep the text as we don't have to accept the amendments, believing that the one you introduced to En Marea and with the transaction you're going to make already pick up that essence that you want to pose in this LNP as well. For our part, that's all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u259	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. After we have finished the debate on non-legislative proposals, we proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mr Anton Sánchez. There's a transaction proposal. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u260	I'm going to read it, though all the spokesmen know it; it's a bit extensive.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u261	Is it too long?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u262	Léoa, léoa: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to: 1. To address the Central Government to promote the investment plans of State ports in Galicia, as well as the necessary regulatory and budgetary measures that guarantee the Greek port authorities the necessary mechanisms for financing the investment programmes provided for in each of them and the assumption of the financial burdens incurred by the execution of the necessary infrastructures for their operation and competitiveness. 2. In relation to the situation of the Port Authority of the Coruña, and given its special relevance, both in terms of debt and forecasting for its depreciation in relation to the sale of land from its maritime-portuarial facade: 2.1. To urge the Government of the State to grant the loan granted by Ports of the State to the Port Authority of the Coruña for the construction of the port of tiptoe Langosteira, or, where appropriate, to grant equivalent economic aid or measures from which they agree, leading, in any case, to the effective and comprehensive depreciation of the said loan, agreeing to this by agreeing to the approval of the acts and provisions of law and budget corresponding to the financial year 2019. 2.2. To call on the Ministry of Development to convene, within the short term, the Follow-up Commission to the February 2004 Convention in order to negotiate a collaboration protocol aimed at reviewing the 2004 agreements and, with it, the 2013 PXOM Convention on the foundation and definition of a new coastal and port horizon for the city, based on the following principles: ownership and public management of land, staffing equipment and public free space and complementary port production. 2.3. To urge the Ministry of Development, Ports of the State, the Harbour Authority, ADIF, the Town Hall of the Crown and the Council of Galicia itself to constitute a public entity as a form of participation and management of that new coastal horizon. 2.4. To urge the Ministry of Development and Ports of the State to promote and finance the execution of the railway connection of the outer port of tip Langosteira without economic contribution from the Port Authority of the Crown and, for this purpose, to demand the inclusion of the appropriate budget, both in the State Ports Investment Plan and ADIF as well as in the State General Budget Act for 2019, so that it may be bided in the first half of that exercise. In the same way, urge the set of competent state port authorities and authorities to increase efforts in the full operation, connectivity and international promotion of the external port. 3. To request, through its representatives at the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authorities of Galicia, the holding of each special board of directors to formally address the Ministry of Development and the Ports of the State with the objective of requesting the set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Agreement. 4. To transfer this agreement to the Council of the Crown, the Ministry of Development, the State ports and the port authorities of general interest of the State in Galicia and ADIF, as well as to the General Courts and parliamentary groups of Congress and the Senate."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u263	We vote for that transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in connection with the protocol signed on 18 April 2018 with the Ministry of Development, Ports of the State and the Harbour Authority on the land of the port of Coruña, the revision of the 2004 port agreements and the proposal of the Council of Coruña on this matter. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u264	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal. The amendments were not accepted, except for their own amendment. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Francisco Casal Vidal, on the demand by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government for the study of a download of the VAT of electricity for the powers and consumption established as essential. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u265	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament regarding the treatment that is being given to information content in the CRTVG. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u266	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Torrido. Amendments to the Group of the European People's Party of the Bloc and En-M Marea have been accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members, on the implementation by the Galician Council of the proposals of the Ombudsman's report on the care of people with mental illness. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u267	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms. Maria Montserrat Prado Cores. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the measures to be taken in health matters in the face of the death of a patient in the Road CAP. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u268	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Calvo Pouso. The amendments were not accepted. We vote. [[One honourable Member asks for the floor.]] Excuse me, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u269	You'll know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u270	From here?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u271	Man, tell me yes or no, and that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u272	It was very soft. We're going to vote for her together.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u273	Okay, you don't accept it. We vote the way it is. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Churches and six other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Council of Galicia before the Government of the State in relation to the coal power plants of the Bridges and Meirama. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u274	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Noela Blanco. The amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group is accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to alleviate the deficit of public squares in residences for older persons and for their proper attention. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u275	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Egerique. Amendments to the other groups were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and 14 other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the announcement by the Central Government concerning the assumption of the financial debt generated in the port of Valencia. The voting was as follows: 41 votes in favour, 32 abstentions. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u276	Open the doors, please, that the votes are over. We turn to agenda item 6, interpelerations. Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and D. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the financing of local authorities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u277	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u278	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. I was actually counting on him to come in charge of the matter, but, well, anyone in the government is welcome so they can answer us. Today the PSdG Parliamentary Group makes an inquiry into a matter that you know perfectly well. "I insist that the truth is that I was thinking that I was responsible for the local administration, but I'm sure you know it perfectly." We have once again come to ask him for explanations as to how the Government of Galicia, the People's Party, how to manage the Government of the People's Party in Galicia, the resources of all and all of the Greeks in certain municipal governments, depending on their political colour. A Councilman from Galicia where Mr. Rueda was vice president and adviser for nine years without interruption. Nine years, Counsellor, in which the councillor and vice-president have a responsibility in continuous and uninterrupted local administration! And so we asked him if you believe that after nine years -- I say to you that they have been ruling uninterruptedly with an absolute majority -- they can have some reason to look out so as not to have brought closer to the Greek municipalities more resources that will allow them to properly meet the demands of their neighbours. Counselor, the demands of the Greek Town Councils today are the same as nine years ago. Nothing has changed because nothing has improved for the Greek municipalities as a whole. The Government of Galician Unity of the People's Party uses local funding as an electoral tool for its party. [[Applause]] Do you believe, Counsellor, that the men and women of this country can have a different treatment on the part of the Galician Union depending on the council in which they live and, therefore, depending on who their rulers are? Do you believe, Counselor, that the Greek municipalities are in a good financial situation to exclude more than forty-three million euros that the Galician Union has left unexecuted in the 2017 fiscal year? Mr. Counsellor, since the PP ruled in Galicia, in our community — from 2009 to 2018, that is, in nine years — we have lost over ninety-five thousand people. We have the lowest vegetative growth in all autonomous communities. We have a conjunctural indicator of fertility by autonomous community of 1.12 children per woman, with third parties starting in line. And we have an aging index for this 2018 exercise of 195.21. I mean, for every 100 under sixteen, we have one hundred ninety-five over sixty-four. And, as you well know, we have a reality, a municipal structure, which is 300 municipalities, of which two hundred ninety-one have less than twenty thousand inhabitants. And we have, according to the Galician Junta, three thousand five hundred parishes listed as little populated areas. So you know perfectly well that dispersion and aging are two of the most important problems in our country. Do you know that, Counselor? By his face I can see that he shares this claim with me. And so, as we have often said, public policies have to be directed to the territory and population of those who act. Do you consider, Mr Counsellor, that with this data we can lose, leave without executing, forty-three million euros so that the councils can carry forward the necessary policies that enable them to promote activities and provide public services that contribute to meeting the needs and aspirations of neighbouring communities, as established by the Law on the Rationalization and Sustainability of the Local Administration, adopted by the People's Party? Is this the way the People's Party must govern to improve the living conditions of the men and women living in our territory? Is this the way to avoid the demographic indentation we are suffering in Galicia, aggravated in recent years by the policies of austerity of the People's Party? The Councils — you know, Counsellor; you know, the whole Government of Galician Union— were, in its vast majority, those who allowed the situation of social emergency not to overflow, those who avoided social exclusion and economic exclusion from the most vulnerable part of our society. And the councils were the ones that allowed men and women in our territory not to lose their dignity in the toughest years of the crisis. In the meantime, the Galician Union would hold accounts. [[Applause]] You know it perfectly and in the first person. You were Mariano Rajoy's most advanced student: accounts against people. Look: the management of the Galician Union towards local governments over the past nine years is that the Local Cooperation Fund in 2018 is three million less than in 2009; that the Local Cooperation Fund — in its additional part — is just an unconditional fund to a conditioned fund; that the credit set out in Title V of the budgets has been reduced to more than seventy-four million euros; that in these nine years, for seven years, they have not convened the Galician Local Cooperation Commission; that they have voted against an initiative brought by our parliamentary group to approve a local financing law that collects the demands approved within the Fegamp, which, as you well know, is where all political groups are represented. And they passed several laws in this parliament without bringing together the corresponding local funding, as set out in Article 25 of the Basic Law, which was also amended by the Law on the Rationalization and Sustainability of the Local Administration, approved and enacted by the People's Party. Once again, the PP legislates to meet others. I mean, the board invites and, again, the municipalities are the ones who pay. You approve laws and you publish them, but I have to remind them, once again, that the publication is not executed; you have to approve them, promulgate them and then execute them so they really have actions on citizenship or on the territory. Counsellor, you are able — without any desire — to convene grants in non-competitive competition and to exhaust credits in 12 minutes on the same day. Counselor, in 12 minutes! Does it seem to you that it makes any sense that the law of transparency and good government is passed and that you refer continuously to this law when you publish a call for grants and you run out in 12 minutes? You know this — it is published — on May 4, 2018, the Territorial Environment and Planning Council convenes, in non-competitive competition, aid for the creation or improvement of infrastructure and equipment in the municipalities of Galicia for 2018, with more than four million euros. It is published — I repeat: DOG of 4 May — the deadline for submission begins on 5 May, and at 00.12.18 hours on 5 May this claim is exhausted, as the Council itself reports. Tell me, were the municipalities registering their applications at zero hours on 5th? What are the municipalities that registered their applications at zero hours? Because in addition to these applications they had to be accompanied by documentation — as you know — and that documentation was: responsible declaration, secretariat certifications and warranting memories in the case of works, projects and preliminary drafts, which have to have — at least — memory, budget and plans, and, in the case of equipment, memory and budget. Man, at least it sounds a little strange, doesn't it, Counselor? Sounds pretty strange. We know — we cannot prove it, but we will be more careful — that certain municipalities, which correspond to the political colour of those who rule in Galicia, have had warnings. And if not, otherwise, it's not possible, and we already have other experiences, Counselor. We'll be looking forward to when they're published which municipalities were granted by the Government of the People's Party of Galicia. We'll be very careful. We've had this same problem with Plan Hurbe, and we've had the same problem with a call for subsidies made by the Vice President and the Public Administration Council. Do you want to explain to us why not all the Greek municipalities have the same right or the same opportunity to opt for certain grants? What are the reasons they hide? [[Applause]] What are the more reasons than to make politics since the Government of Galicia's seat itself with its municipalities? Tell us, really, Mr. Counselor, because we're paid a lot of work to understand. The criteria for the distribution of the Government of Galicia's People's Party's Union is a second one: if I should now like mys to come, mys in non-competitive competition bag, I warn you before and at zero hours they're registering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u279	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u280	Of course, this is impossible for the rest of the municipalities to have the same opportunities. Do you mean that the people, neighbors and neighbors we live in those municipalities that aren't grateful for these subsidies don't have the same rights?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u281	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u282	...that we don't have the same problems? I'm looking forward to your answer. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u284	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office. Your Honor, I would like to ask you about the policy of the German Government on the financing of local authorities and to raise three questions which I will try to answer. With regard to the execution, the first thing I want to explain is that the funds which distribute the Government of Greece to the municipalities can be grouped into two categories: on the one hand — as you well know — are the unconditional funds — a reference also to its intervention, which integrate the Local Cooperation Fund, and on the other hand local authorities do not have to make any kind of justification for the Autonomous Executive; and on the other hand, there are the conditional funds, which are distributed through agreements and grants — they also referred to their intervention — and which are subject to certain levels of justification by the local authorities before the Galician Union, on the calm — let me go ahead — believe deeply, because in the management of public funds, I believe that all precautions are few. That doesn't mean they're disabled by all the management issues and we can't do it among all better. Having said that, what I would like to point out is that in the case of unconditional persons, such as the Local Cooperation Fund, the German Government has transferred 100 percent of the commitments in accordance with the regulations to the municipalities. As for the conditioned, there are reasons that cause them to have a lower rate of execution than the unconditional ones, although, however, the conditional funds have reached an 80.9% execution. It must be remembered that these funds are partly intended to finance current expenditure, too — as you well know — capital expenditure. And in the case of current transfers that we finance, the current expenditure of the municipalities is dealt with through calls for aid and agreements — some reference you have also made — with different kinds of modality. Their preparation, once approved the project execution grants, and subsequent justification, is to some extent dilated the recognition of obligations on our part. In the case of capital transfers and investment-financed agreements, the above conditions are also added to the processing of works contracts and the need for scrupulous compliance — and so on — of the legislation, which will, of course, contribute to delaying the liquidation of projects. However, it must be borne in mind that some of the conditional funds have their origin both in state and European funds, which are incorporated by their multi-annual nature, since this means that these funds are not lost. In any event, and taking into account all these conditions, the budgetary execution of funds committed to local entities in 2017 was 94,7 % on initial credits. In view of the fact that Law 3/2017, which we have approved in this parliament — past half a year ago — has led to an increase and also to a different form of credit, this brings us to 87% on the current budget. Let us remember that Law 3/2017 came into force — as I told you — on July 15th, so operationally, the deadlines for the execution of actions subject to justification were much shorter than those that are usually the usual ones. In view of this, since the Greek Government we have extended the deadlines for many — not in all, but in many — of the grant lines, and of what has been normal — until 30 September — we have deferred the initial deadline until 15 November. This led to, in some cases, a failure to complete the budget execution during the exercise. For verification procedures, the municipalities, as they well know, have a period of ten working days — usually since the receipt of the requirements — and, for example, once the documentation has been completed, we carry out on-site verification visits. This is very important, especially with regard to the investments which are deduced from the ERDF, which leads us to make on-the-spot visits to 100 percent of the investments, and in the case of the Environmental Compensation Fund, which, as you well know, is not lost, to the actions that exceed the 600,000 euros. This is all about seeing the complexity that we have with respect to budgetary execution, not so much induced since the Union, but also about the type of investments — or non-investments — of which we are talking. Secondly, you also asked me — of the three questions I was asking — whether the Greek Government considers that the councils are sufficiently financed. What I have to tell you first, and since it can't be any other way, is that the first thing we've been defending since Galician Union is local autonomy. But at the same time, we do the same thing on the subject of the adequacy of municipal farms. We must remember that the legal system establishes a financial system of mixed character, which is composed both by its own and by its own means, which guarantees that financial capacity to which I was referring, and that financial autonomy therefore has a fiscal responsibility. The municipalities therefore have to adjust their capacity and income according to their needs. I think Galicia was one of the pioneer communities in setting a model of stable participation of local authorities in autonomous taxes. We have a guarantee of minimums, a true share of income that is linked to the tax collection of the autonomous farm, which is objective and unconditional in its application, thus making a firm defense of the financial adequacy of local entities, as enshrined in our Constitution. As far as the German Government is concerned, our commitment to funding local entities is clear. In Act 8/2017, of autonomous Community budgets for this year 2018, we included 360.7 million euros allocated to local corporations, which — by simple reflection of what was the crisis season — means 30.2% more than it was in 2014. As I am already referring to the principle, the appropriations are distributed between the Local Cooperation Fund and the one for the various conventions and grants, with a number of advisers and managers in the Galician Union. Local funding — I have to admit — is in some cases insufficient, but at present the state of the situation is that since the Spanish Government, among others, we should define the new model of funding, both with regard to the local part and also with regard to the autonomous part. I think it's time for everyone to win. The next step will be our relationship to the local administration in quantitative terms; not so in qualitative terms, because since June I think we are making this economic effort of maximum collaboration with the municipalities. He also asks, thirdly, whether we are going to raise local funding this year. The Union — as I have told you — and the Fegamp, I believe, is continually collaborating in the defence of municipal interests. I would like to point out that institutional relations — allow me to express themselves — are almost immeasurable; almost everything can be improved, but we are very close to a fluid relationship. And in the field of local funding, you know that the dialogue between these institutions takes place in the Permanent Sub-Commission on Economic and Financial Regime, within the Local Administration Commission. At this moment, with the advancement of the work of the so-called subcommission, this definition of autonomic and local models is pending by the State. And when we have that certainty of resources, he has no doubt that our intention — as I think it has been customary these nine years — will be to reach this agreement with his representatives through the Fegamp. We also have to evaluate very much the composition that Fegamp has on all these topics, where they have different types of technicians and experts on different subjects. But we must always remember that Fegamp has its relationship with the FEMP as well and what it considers to mean the first derivative in terms of local funding. But if we consider that the objective has to be, in the future reform of that local financing system, which properly reflects the existence of differential elements which are own to our municipalities, which substantially affect the cost of providing services which, in principle, fall within their competence. For that you will always count on the support of the Galician Union, both technical and financial, and that's how we're doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor for the replica round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u286	Thank you, Counselor. I insist that I count on Mr. Rueda, who has knowledge, not because you have less — not my intention — but simply because we have already agreed on some local issues. You're telling me that there are conditional and other subsidies that are not conditional, and that they've transferred the Local Cooperation Fund to 100 percent. Home!, I'm telling you, it would only be missing that they didn't transfer the Local Cooperation Fund in 100 percent to all the Greek municipalities. I don't know where that merit is. What I can tell you is that the differences in how to govern are not demonstrated with good measure — that you have; although sometimes you tell me that I'm exaggerating a little, but you're much quieter than me — but you're proving with facts. [[Applause]] [[Laughter]] The Local Cooperation Fund, when the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño — a two-party that you are often and constantly referring to — was at the beginning of 2006 at some EUR 90 million. Well, we took the Government in 2005 and on January 20, 2006 the local Covenant was signed. The local Covenant had a different impact, because then it no longer affected us to implement a good part, but the People's Party Government; so today, after nine years, we're still talking about the development of that local Covenant. But the reality is that, during the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño, the Local Cooperation Fund increased by twenty-four million euros. Those are the facts, Counselor, those are the realities, and that's the management we're asking the Galician Board to rule by the People's Party. You were telling me that for this year something more than 300 million were booked. Man, let's not get caught. We're going to subtract the one hundred and thirty that are transfers, which is also the Local Cooperation Fund, so it's two hundred and twenty-nine million — if you want to leave this painting, I'm going to leave it here for the president to pass it — while we start from two hundred sixty-nine in 2007. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows a document to Mr. Conseiler of Fairy.]] So they went down; they didn't go up, they went down. Mr. President, please let him come later to the councillor to see if we're talking about the same data, which are the ones you've made easier for us since Galician Union. [[Mr Rodríguez Rumbo gives a document to the President.]] And you were also talking, at first, that all prevention is few. I think that the prevention they apply is none, because -- I want to insist -- one of the last grants published this year 2018 was published in the CEO on day 4, and day 5 at 00.12 is running out of credit. I'm also telling you to ask the Board of Auditors to give us a review report, because the fact is that it's quite curious, so you have to tell us the Board of Auditors about it. I suppose we won't do an investigation commission, but we do ask the body responsible for managing and supervising these kinds of topics to tell us something; to see how it is done so that the municipalities, in less than a day, have prepared all the documentation and at zero hours begin to record all the prepared documentation. You refer to the adequacy of local farms, and I don't want to say to you, Counsellor — and you know that we are talking about this subject continuously — that the rickets of local farms are a subject — at least I understand it — which is a principle accepted by all political groups. And in the heart of the Fegamp, that is precisely one of the subjects most debated and what — as I was saying before — petitions are still the same because nothing has changed. I mean, there's a very good role or a very good dialogue with all the representatives of the Fegamp, but the truth is, the municipalities haven't really improved anything during these nine years of the People's Party's Government at the Galician Summit. And their demands are several; among other things, they have several documents, essentially one in which they adopted a series of agreements all political groups unanimously, which was published and sent to the Council of Galicia. And, I insist, seven years later, the Galician Local Cooperation Commission was convened, where several committees were set up for study. But real progress, real progress that really has an impact on the local world, absolutely none.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u287	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u288	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. So what we ask of you is, first, explanations. If it isn't you, the Environment Advisor will come here to explain the reasons why in 12 minutes a call for grants is exhausted — which should be in competitive competition, since I don't understand why there can be no priority and a comparison — and therefore that explains to us what councils and what counts have taken these councils, because obviously not all of the People's Party entered either. I suppose his mayors and mayors of the People's Party also have to explain to them what the criteria were and why they were warned and others were not. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u289	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. You have the word for the reply of Mr. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u290	Thank you again, Mr. President. If I may, I would like to send documentation — as the representative of the Socialist Party did at the time — on this subject, official data to support my three theses a bit. But before we begin, what is more important is to reiterate the commitment of this government over nine years ago to the difficulties and the important and complex competences that our local councils and deputies have, especially the councils; this was the question that brings us here. And before I go to some questions, I'd really like to talk a little bit more often than the execution. It's data that just made me easier this morning and, therefore, they don't exactly match what you have, but I'm going to give what we have. In particular, the initial budget — which was what your lordship was referring to — was EUR 336.2 million in 2017, the current budget was EUR 364.7 million. Phase O reached 318.3 million euros; hence, with a difference of 46.4, which is slightly higher than the forty-three that you said. But what's strange to me is that a person as familiar with the local area as you, who had very high responsibilities and who dominates quite a lot of the economic issue... other times we've talked about the concept of incorporation, especially linked to European funds. As you well know, of these 46.4 million euros, today — the 2018 budget — are recovered, that is, incorporated, 34.9 million euros. So let's leave things in their fair term. Today, we can even increase because we are going to incorporate some European fund. So what we're talking about is a differential that is three percent about the current credit that was last year. As we all are now at a certain age and have responsibilities everywhere, as a simple reference value, I will give you the executions of the Court of Auditors — I also leave the document I referred to earlier — of the Deputies of the Coruña, Lugo, Ourense and Pontevedra. There we all have. For example, the execution of the non-financial expenditure of the Crown Deputy was 37.82%. What an example! The Lugo Parliament had a 60.76% execution. What an example! The House of Ourense, 76.81 % — are the latest official data published. And Pontevedra, 50.11%. You will allow me to say that this ninety-seven percent execution of the local administration that the Galician Union presents is something I must be very proud of, but very proud of. [[Applause]] Theme number two, and not sufficiently valued sometimes in this parliament. When we talk about the Local Cooperation Fund, I agree with you, but what you really have to say is that it's automatically correlated -- and it's not a matter that has to do with a very specific political party or another -- today with the income of the Union. So don't come here to suck. We can suck, because at the 2009-2014 crisis stage, the Local Cooperation Fund had to go down twenty-one million euros and it didn't come down anything. Since then it's growing at rates above what the board budget does, for example, this year. And always according to the Fegamp, as this year was the assumption of one hundred and forty health centers — we are left thirty-something to assume that they are not in buildings purely dedicated to health centres; or as is the subject of firemen's comarcaization — let's value it — with some difficulties in some cities, and we all know what we're talking about; how can they be music conservatories, if any remnant remains; or how can it be — as it means — the agreement recently signed with Fegamp in a shared competition: the cleaning of fringes. Those ten million with which we're going to make the famous fund to clean up every year, over the next four years and more, from which we put 7.5 and the municipalities, through the Local Cooperation Fund — when we can — 2.5. That's what we value. But in addition, the reference value of the Galician Joint Cooperation Fund as an unconditional fund is — 2015 data, because it is the last I have — of EUR 125.6 million. It turns out that we are the second autonomous community in Spain that has this amount. To give you an example: Catalonia has EUR 124.6 million three times as large as us. For example, I, who criticizes Andalusia so much, now I can't criticize it: it's four hundred and eighty. But there is no autonomous community that is not insular that can be compared to this. And this is worth it because, unconditionally, these EUR 125.6 million are more than anything the communities invest in Members in 2017, which was one hundred and seventeen million in budget, not in expenditure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u291	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u292	Conclusion: what are we talking about? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For our part, we always believe that local funding is insufficient. The studies she did to Junta — which we also passed on to Fegamp and the state — indicate that homogeneous competences are 95.5% of the Spanish average; therefore, there is a clear insufficiency. And for that, they'll always count on the Galician Union. We have to get that differential back. But it's also ahead of you: the non-financial expenditure of the autonomous communities is below 0.9% in unconditional funding, already putting within all the islands, and the Union is reaching 1.4%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u293	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u294	...that is, there's a lot to improve, but little. And we, as always, have the hands of the Fegamp as it stands for the citizens. Because, in the end, either administration or administration, what we have is the same citizens, and we always agree with them, because objectively they are badly funded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u295	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da Maria de los Ángeles Cuña Boveda and three other members of the G.P. of Marea on CRTVG management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u296	To formulate the interpellation has the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u297	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor and Vice-President. What we are dealing with is a recurring, necessary and very important issue. We need all public means to be able to feed consciences, without disguises, without bites, an honest journalism with diverse, balanced and representative programming in a CRTVG for the service of citizenship. On Saturday, 8th -- as you know, and yesterday we've been addressing this issue -- the corporate committees of CRTVG and Spanish Television have called us to a demonstration of historical protest, of enormous calibre, for the dignity of the public media. The workers, supported by parties, unions, social and collective cultural and professional movements, celebrated this demonstration against, above all and primarily, manipulation, compliance and development of the law and the end of political interference in their work. Public chains have a lot of credibility problems, it's time to say "Enough now!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh The need for full compliance with the Public Media Act can be noted in a number of ways: One, own production. Self-production is something TV, CRTVG, must accomplish. And we know that there is a change of programming, and in this change of programming, the direction to eradicate own production is certified. Projects advertised in the grid are almost all external production. With regard to one of the crucial points, which is the Council of Informatives, when it is not developed, there is no appropriate tool to act politically against the destructive propaganda machinery, which is what this corporation has been turning into for years. And not to be sexist is something that I want to ask you very strongly here, because here, publicly, you said there was a code for regulating good practices of equal opportunities and media, and it's not true. This is very serious: it should be said publicly, both here and in committee, that it exists, and that it does not exist. With regard to identity, CRTVG has an obligation to promote and disseminate the culture and language of Galicia, as well as to defend Galician identity. A diverse, balanced and representative culture is, by definition, inherent and thanks to compliance for all public chains. Local. Removing local disconnects is considered a partisan use. CRTVG also has an obligation to ensure the maximum continuity of "service delivery and full coverage of the whole of the territory of Galicia". Plural. CRTVG has an obligation to reflect ideological, social, political and cultural pluralism; it does not. With regard to the election of the Director General, what is requested, what is claimed, what is required is that he be elected in accordance with the law. The workers and workers warn of the serious deterioration of working relationships in the Corporation by the management team that has been chairing Sánchez Izquierdo since 2009 abnormally. The director must not remain in office since 2011, since the Public Media Act obliges Parliament to elect him by a qualified majority, which requires the consensus of several political groups. And also the CRTVG itself denounced the committee and in Brussels — in the European Parliament, in the Committee on Petitions — and called for the German Government to comply with European legislation. According to the complaint — and the complaint is under way — your Government, Mr Rueda, is in breach of Community Directive 2010/13 on audiovisual communication services and letters of fundamental rights of the European Union. I would also like to say that, if we look at how your executive acts, we see several issues. He acts by making deaf ears; he doesn't listen and, in addition, denies reality. He's acting by throwing balloons out. If they don't cover the demands of their own workers, what are they covering? And we, the Members of the House and the Members of En Marea, believe that we must also be speakers of these demands, because compliance with the law is a fundamental task of this House. He acts with immobility in fulfilling and pushing a law that you, the PP, have been pushing for seven years. It acts with a management model that does not meet the service criteria for those that have been conceived, with constant budget cuts, staff precariousness and outsourcing of production. Contents are also removed from this order. And it acts with irrational political reprisals, and also threats, in the face of the protest of partisan use and public information control. They do not support discrepancies with the management's reporting criteria. The Directorate opens, with its support, sanctioning files such as that of Tati Moyano. And this approach is closer to institutional corruption than to democratic normality. Purging is a common practice. They also use parallel writing. In front of the vacuum, it is suppled with the so-called "parallel drafting", imported from means related to the Government, such as, for example, a newspaper of the greatest tendency of the most recalcitrant right. And they're using reporters who take care of some talkers to occupy these posts. And they don't want to talk to the workers and the workers. It's a paradox that in a medium where dialogue should be the fundamental axis of communicative gear, it's absent. What reasons or what purposes does he have? Of course, if they do not take measures to prevent and eradicate pre-Censorship and manipulation installed in the public media as a structural evil, what can we think of? Of course, defending plurality, freedom, truthfulness and impartiality does not seem to be a stimulus for you; rather, silence. And what does this have to do with it? More with a policy of silence and more with bringing political proceeds out of caciquil manipulation. It's very good for you, of course; build lots of lies with the disguises of truth. It's been many years of power and a lot of corruption to hide. It is enough to repair in the makeup of all the many mass demonstrations — of health, education, pensions, 8-M, Touro mine, fires and law of predation — to know how the most significant images were taken from the minutes. There are many examples of lack of informational hygiene, and very alarming. Well, your model is that of non-compliance with the law. They're in an illegal space. And what does the president say? Well, he has no idea what presenters are ratified or combined, apart from saying today that he doesn't see TV, but that he does read TV; well, I don't know how he does. According to the President, CRTVG's issues must be answered by CRTVG, whose Directorate — I say — does not consult him. And the director of CRTVG talks about the balm of Fierabrás to talk about the Informative Board -- yes, it's in chapter X of Quixote, and it's talking about oil, wine, salt and rosemary; a boot of hair! -- and magic potions, are you referring to the soaps with laxative effects or with placebo effects? Hairstorm! Well, and the context in which all these issues are being breached is already at the top of it for six months after the law came into force; it has prevented it from changing. He made it and his government made, through the General Budget Accompanying Law of 2016, a reform that, in practice, I supposed to keep the current Director General of the Company indefinitely in his office, preventing him from being replaced. Well, they have an obligation to comply with the law and they're not doing it. For all this, we ask the following questions: What does the protests of workers, workers and collectives on this issue result? What impact do you think you and your government have on local disconnections?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u298	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u299	What does the failure of the director's election involve? And why are they blocking the creation of the Information Council? Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u300	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u301	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mrs. Cuña, again ask you more questions, I'm going to try to answer you all between this turn and the next one, and even something else that wasn't in your questions, but it's all going in the same direction. Because this is the fifth time that you exercise your parliamentary right, of course, and I, fulfilling my obligation, come here to answer the question about CRTVG's work. I say, you are in your right — I would miss you more! — and I am in my obligation. But what is a finding is that it is the fifth time in just ten months that they ask the Galician Board — because that's what I understood, and I'm sure many and many have understood the same — that interferes with the operation of the Galician Radio and Television Company. You said here, "Act politically against CRTVG's decisions." Then he talks about freedom, impartiality, and he's so calm when he asks a government to act directly in the decisions of a company that devotes itself to a lot of things apart from information, but also information. Well, this finds out two things, clearly: The first, something that is objective — and I think it's very regrettable — is that they're trying — I don't know very well with what intention — to put on the company's work and, therefore, the work that professionals do, because this is done by people, men and women who work. And whoever listened to you would come to the conclusion that everything is going to be fatal, that nothing has any quality and that everything is a real disaster. This is the image you're trying to -- I don't think you can -- but trying to throw. And the second is something that is also hard to see, but it is. You think the public media don't have to be independent, they have to depend on the government of turn, they have to give them directions, correct them, oriental and tell them: that's why you're not okay because I don't like what you're doing. That's your approach, which, if you have to admit -- because I think there's nothing else left to admit -- of course, I find it very worrying, but you take it with the whole freedom of the world. I insist that you say here that you have to act politically in response to the decisions of the Galician Radio and Television Company, and you find it incredible that the President of the Board says that the Director of CRTVG does not consult you to make the decisions. That's the way it is! I understand that in your scheme and in your planning of what things look like, it doesn't seem like that because, of course, if you had the opportunity to give instructions, you would give them without any problems and give them continuously to say: you have to go this way, if I don't want to. But we are not, because we believe that the public media are part of an advanced democracy. And I can give them a lot of examples where you've had a chance to do it — fortunately in almost no place, but they did say what they would do. I've already said it in other interventions, but I repeat here what Mr. Pablo Iglesias said: you stay with the ministries, you give me the TV set. That's exactly what you wanted to do. You can bring me here a lot of times to tell me that we have, as a government, to politically interfere with what CRTVG does, but we're not going to do it, Mrs. Cuña. Then it's impossible for us to agree. I can make the valuation — and of course I will — that you ask me, but essentially we will never agree. I want to break a spear by the magnificent professionals, I've told you before. Man, you say yes, but then you say everything they do is a disaster. [[Murmurs.]] And many people work with, which, if what they do is a disaster, I suppose the people who are doing it... Or are you going to tell me they're all great but the final product is a disaster because there's someone who's preventing it all? This doesn't work like this, and of course it doesn't work with us. You would try, because there would be a hierarchy there that would give exact instructions about what to do and what to do so that it would go well with the public, but we're not going to do it. So I break a spear. It's respect. I think he's not finally aware of the image he throws on these professionals. And then -- I'm telling you -- there's that conception of what the functioning of the media should be, which is diametrically in the antipods, not that of us, but that of any advanced democracy — I think — it has to be intended for its media. I was asked in this chamber, one of the interventions, to criticize one of the journalists who works at CRTVG because they didn't like something he wrote. So you have to reprobate him and condemn him to jail because he doesn't write on the line and he doesn't say or think how you think he has to think of someone who works in the public media. That's how it was, Mrs. Cuña. They brought me here too -- I insist: on your right and me on my duty -- and I was here to answer and try to explain. But they didn't want to understand anything and, of course, they wouldn't understand it because they didn't want it and because we're in very different concepts as to how the information that comes out of the public media should be. They wanted the Government to engage directly in the organization of CRTVG and its contents, because they didn't like its contents; some of them just announced, not even put into operation because they were for months later. But they had to intervene to cut it; so they didn't like it and so it couldn't be. It doesn't contain the Galician Union for this. CRTVG is an entity with its own legal personality, autonomously in its management, which must be controlled in Parliament and which will never be controlled by the Government. This is the mandate we have, but it is no mandate, it is pure common sense. Galician Radio and Television are independent of the Galician Union, Mrs. Cuña. As much as you're here to say that it looks like a lie like we didn't intervene or that it looks like a lie like we don't cut our intervention, it's independent and it's going to be that way forever. This is consolidated in the laws and, I insist, in the common sense and in the DNA of whom it is considered to be minimally democratic. Of course, from there you can tell a lot of lies. You didn't tell me, but you do put it in your question: what is my opinion — put it in your inquiry — about how is the information given? For example — and I quote this example because you quote it in writing in your inquiry — the treatment of the news about Gürtel: it speaks of the fact that only fifty seconds have been devoted to it and asks what my opinion on it is. Of course, then someone must have told you that it wasn't fifty seconds, it was more than five minutes. And, of course, nothing is rectified, something else is passed, another example is set that is also equal to a lie, and that's it, because it consists of this. Ah!, what isn't true about this, that they gave me bad information? I don't rectify, I make up another example, I manipulate another example, and we go on like this, always saying exactly the same thing. You told me — and I quote exactly — 50 seconds for Gürtel. So I ask: did you lie in the interpellation, in the formulation? You've been misinformed and you don't care, haven't you? Well, it could be all that, but eventually the result is what it is. He also asks about the impact of the elimination of the Cultural Journal. I've explained it and I'll say it again: it hasn't been removed; on the contrary, its contents and its schedule have been expanded. Another thing is that it affects specific people, which is also very curious. In this practice, which is now much clearer, to make black lists of good journalists and bad journalists, some directly affected... so we have to ask everything, and the rest absolutely have to condemn them. And when someone is directly affected, you have to come out here and defend it — legitimately — but then we defend everyone and we're not interested in just a few cases. Above all, it's not true what you're saying, because it hasn't been suppressed, it has increased, and I've already told you it would be so, because when you asked me it hadn't been made effective yet. We've reached that time and proved it was. Of course, if someone is affected to whom you think you should especially lie, then I'm never going to convince her at all. But as worthy are all professionals, men and women, and not a few more than others, and therefore one must defend and one must not defend another. [[Applause]] Then you ask me about CRTVG's director and, in an exercise of objectivity and demonstration that there are no black balls or white balls here, he says he's a journalist historically linked to the People's Party and he's done. First, it's not true. [[Murmurs.]] And second, if that's true, then what happens? That's why we should condemn him and, on the other hand, those historically linked to his political party must be promoted? Is this your system? We must start putting political labels on the journalists and start saying — as Mr. Pablo Iglesias and Mr. Pedro Sánchez did — as they did by the way: no, this is too blatant, because it is very linked... I don't think it's worth it to me either, and in the end, it's going to get rid of it and we're going to end up in the toilet, with an interim administrator on Spanish public television who, by the way, has devoted himself to purging from the very first moment — yes, to those who protest — out of resentment. No, maybe it wasn't like that... but if we're all seeing it! Man, this isn't discussed by anyone! No one disputes it at all. But that really comes from trying to catalogue journalists with ideological labels. And to do this is to do a weak favor to everyone, to those who manifest themselves and to those who do not manifest themselves. And I have so much respect for those who have manifested themselves as those who have not manifested themselves. [[Applause]] I suppose you'll do the same, or are those who have manifested themselves the ones who are in possession of absolute truth and those who have not done so are the ones who let themselves be manipulated, those who lead the Company to that disastrous situation as you try to understand? Don't everyone deserve the same respect? For me, yes; for you, by the way, no. The only intelligent ones are the ones who agree with you, and the rest deserves no respect. And so we start with the black lists, the purges and the conception of television that we're never going to have. That's what will always separate us, Mrs. Cuña. We don't want public media directed from the government. This government will never lead the public. You're pushing on that. [[Murmurs.]] And you have to recognize him, at least, that he doesn't have any kind of cover, because he sees it normal, and I can't understand it. Any Democrat, honestly, I don't think he could understand it, but you look normal. The means are to manipulate them. Mr. Pablo Iglesias says: "I want TV setters to manipulate society; don't give me budgets, give me TV sets and ideology. And that's the way it is and it will always be. [[Applause]] Luckily, Mrs. Cuña, they have no chance, they haven't had it until now. They had some hiding place with Mr. Pedro Sánchez, demonstrating their position of absolute political captivity in that sense; they had some attempt to do so, but at last it all burst through the air. As long as there are Democrats in front of the Government of Galicia here, they won't be able to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u302	Thank you very much, Vice President. You have the word on the replica turn to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u303	See if I can take good advantage of this five minutes. Of course, this is... there are parallel universes, and believe the thief or believe the lion... the thief, the lion or the chameleon believe that they are all of their condition. [[Applause]] To deny manipulation, to deny the lack of plurality, to deny the violation of the law, to throw balloons out. [[Murmurs.]] Actually, you're giving me the reason. Of course, many of CRTVG's practices would absolutely scare the countries of democratic tradition jealous of impartiality and independence from the public. What is CRTVG?, a knife or is it all of them and all of the Galicians we pay for it? At no time here is the question of professionalism; we have magnificent professions. [[Murmurs.]] Home! Other questions are raised.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u304	Quiet, quiet. I'll take care of it, thanks. [[Murmurs.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u305	If there were more intelligent policies, there would be fewer attacks on freedom of expression. There are many things I want to answer to you. That they deny the interference is a joke. And speaking of multiuniverses, as it does not give me time, I recommend the reading of "Stephen Hawking, Paul Auster and the Cultural Diary." This article is very lucid. It is spoken—of course! of course!—that the multiverses are not a narrative style, that would very well defend the Cultural Diary, which, by the way, keeps the melody, but changes the content. [[Applause]] And, for fuck's sake, who says it goes on? It's a falsehood. But, well, speaking of multi-universes: I'm not a literary genre; the multi-verses have relationships with which we can live parallel lives. By using his imagination — I said the article — we could think that Galicia was not governed by the PP — giving him enough imagination. Not so much, there's a difference of 40,000 votes, because you make allusion very repeatedly. The parallel universe announces a lot of things. To talk about Paul Auster is to talk about Leviathan. They read the article, please, and so I excuse continuing with this question, because there are many more. Examples of manipulation: hundreds, hundreds, hundreds. All the mass demonstrations of health, education, bull mine -- all that -- track down how many minutes or seconds. I don't care that Gürtel took fifty, that one and a half minutes, that three; that I don't care......it was funny! [[Murmurs.]] Workers and... Don't be angry, please, let me finish, I have very little time. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u306	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u307	Workers and workers at CRTVG just started black Fridays with the theme of Gürtel, and for some reason it will be: it's the trigger factor. I'm going to quote you — because chronology is very objective — what your counterpart did in the state Parliament, Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría. Really, when he arrived, what he did was flunk all the previous stuff, and 95% of the editors fell. I'm talking about this argument that you're using with respect to Madrid, what you're doing with the public media, there's an analogy. People are convinced that credibility, prestige and independence must be returned to the media. And secondly, there's an inalienable right... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u308	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u309	...of the citizen to be well informed; but not only to information, also to culture and language. All right, keep the law. What we're considering is compliance with the law. He didn't answer any questions about all the breaches listed. It's time for dialogue, but you shut your ear and listen. They don't even talk to their own workers. There's real witch hunts, black lists of you fags. The plurality, which all voices hear. Look at the talkers and see how plurality there is. This is objective too. What's being defended is the public contest. That if you were to support in Madrid, a temporary decree is another parallel universe, another narration other than yours, of course. More things. I'm not going to enter what you always enter, it would be a reason for another plea. But lies are disguised, lies -- we've said -- they don't get old, and I don't know if they have short or long legs, but what I know is that you're afraid to lose this propagandistic gear...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u310	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u311	...which they consider their own cost. And this can't be, it has to end. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u312	Thank you very much. You have the floor to reply to Mr Rueda Valenzuela, Vice-President and Chairlor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Cuña, I don't care, you do me an interpellation based on bias and the supposed propaganda manipulation that is given in the Company in favor of the Government of the Union, because Gürtel's news lasted fifty seconds. In that he bases his inquiry, in that he bases his argument. When it turns out I say "more than five minutes," he says, "I don't care! There will be other examples." That's the strength, or rather the weakness, of his arguments. That's what it's based on. Ah! what's not worth this?, that this was another lie?, another attempt to manipulate objective data to try to prove the undisputable, or try to assert the unaffirmable — from our point of view — that public media cannot be manipulated at the service of a political party, as you say without cutting a hair? If the million of all this is at the end is exactly that, and we can be discussing it. I could now leave the use of the word, go back to my seat, and you'd come back here and say the same thing to me: that they change what they say on TV, that I don't like it, that this journalist I put a label... and he says he respects it! Listen, I'm telling you that you asked me to publicly reproach a professional at the Galician Radio and Television Company because you didn't like what I wrote, because you didn't agree with what I wrote, because it's not in your ideological line. That's what you asked for. [[Protests.]] And I'll tell you one thing, Mrs. Cuña:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u314	Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u315	...this will accompany her in her parliamentary curriculum, because that's what she did. I didn't give credit, I didn't give credit when I saw the question. But it was. So don't tell me what you respect. It respects what you think they're from your rope, and that's very sad. That's very sad. [[Applause]] You tell me: we need credibility to be restored in the public media, society to recover it. And the credibility of the politicians who speak of the public media is restored! By listening to you saying that you respect all the professionals, and then seeing how he asks for the reprobation of those who don't like what they write. Listening to you when you set an example and that example falls absolutely because it has nothing to do with the truth, and it says it doesn't matter and it's going to set another example. Listening to you and seeing how you don't spend a second on the show we've just seen, where two political leaders are fighting the control of the public media -- in this state case -- saying, this is your rope, we've eliminated it, and so I'm taking it out of the other line. And in the end, they don't come to any conclusion and they do the ridiculous thing, and they do a purge of more than eighty professionals. Some of them took a long time, already with governments prior to PP, with PSOE, and they were all loaded because they think they're not going to be on the ideological line that is now needed in the state government. And don't say anything, that that sounds good to you, and that you focus here, because the other one doesn't want to talk to you, that's just making it impossible for you — at least for you — society to regain credibility in the public media, Mrs. Cuña. That's exactly what there is. [[Applause]] Look: let the professionals work, respect their work. The Greeks — of course — are fools, everything is a disaster in the Company. That's why Radio Galega is the fastest growing radio in Galicia, so Galician TV has about three percent more share than average TVs in FORTA. Because the Greek people are stupid, the Greek people don't distinguish. The Greek people are unable to follow you in their wise advice that content has to be manipulated so they can say exactly what interests a political force, and increasingly they see the Galician TV, and they are listening more and more to Radio Galaga, because they don't understand that it doesn't make any sense to manipulate it. Because you don't understand how good it would be for the government to rise every day saying, "Well, what did you write such a professional?" And if I don't like it, throw it away, or at least publicly embarrass it... what did they say on the radio, what's the content? What's the change? If I don't like to call you, uncheck the phone of the person in charge -- whoever you put, of course, politically labeled, but left-handed, with those labels you put on. And in the end it works that way. But does that know what would lead to the end? To a public medium that had no quality, that people would stop listening; that even theirs — better — would no longer see. And in the end that would cause us to lose credibility. Look, I hope you never get a chance to put this into practice that they leave the televisions, and rule, that they govern others. Society is not manipulated, Galician society is much smarter than you think. And in the end that intention of manipulating always turns against. As long as there are Democrats in the Government of Galicia, that — as I told you before — is not going to be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u316	Thank you very much, Vice President. We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u317	We resumed the session. Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in connection with the closing of beds and services during the summer months in the hospitals of Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u318	Mrs. Solla has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u319	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. Almuinha. I'd like to see you here this afternoon, though I'd better see you in the morning at the death march at the Road CAP. But since he can't afford to come in to explain himself, he's good to have an obligation to come because we present this interpellation. And we present it after we also present a written question which, as you know, was answered by the Health Council, although our understanding is quite parked and without most of the data requested. This was also discussed in the former Health Committee 5th, in which we proposed that these permits be covered. Once again we asked for the information and, as always, obviously, the People's Party voted against. So today we bring here once again, after a summer full of mobilizations throughout all the villages in our country in the face of the lack of coverage of the permits of primary care doctors and doctors and pediatricians, this circumstance, which is extremely serious. We have also been discussing in this plenary about the planning of resident internal doctors and, in this case, about Pediatrics — but obviously there is a problem with other specialties — and the absence, those vacations that took the Galician Board for almost a decade in planning the needs of new and new professionals. It is more — I would say more — there is one element that is an obscenity, and that for many years we have been reporting here, even when it was still its predecessor — Mrs Mosquera — that it is the forced retirements to which for many years you have forced the professionals. For what? To save a few poor euros that now weighs on the absence of professionals to cover many of the services. He gave a medium of communication last week a news about the number of medical professionals who went to work in private after you retired them forcefully when they could still extend their retirement age. And that gives a little bit to the extent that the Union has despised staff and health needs all the years before. It was, of course, making forced retirements, amortizing squares, not covering new squares — I don't know where these professional data come from, I suppose it will be from the hirings for hours offered, and now we get to a problem without having the duties done and no measure taken. So it's not for that justification given to primary care, nor for the specialist, that there are no professionals. It doesn't work when you haven't done your homework before. We still don't know what the medium- and long-term plan of the Galician Union is to equip professionals and to cover future absences and retirements, which are not few, Counsellor. With regard to specialized care, we are asking precisely — and today we are asking for the same reason — because once again and every year there is no homogeneous criterion when we close according to services or do not cover the absences of staff. That is, in your reply to this honourable Member, it is said that planning is developed in view of the frequency of the various hospital areas. I wonder every year -- and I ask you -- why, despite saying this, every year they close different services, and in some smaller centers they always close the same. But it turns out, for example, that in the morning we were talking about the eighteen births that closed this year at the Santiago de Compostela University Hospital Complex, and we don't know if the children and the nursing children become less sick in the summer months alone in Compostela. So there's no homogeneous criterion, and you don't answer absolutely anything that's a technical criterion, or based on clinical issues, that might seem better or worse, but that you can read in a question. On substitutions, they say that one hundred percent of the absences that are needed will eventually be replaced; of course, what you decide is needed. And I'm going to give you some data: both in the CHUS and in the CHUAC — July and August — and also, for example, in the Salnés Hospital -- that this year they've experienced a real planning disaster, and it's getting more and more frequent -- there's patients in the ER, there's plants closed and they don't open up. CHUAC professionals reported this year that, like every year, there have been patients crowded in the corridors, one hundred seventy-six closed beds — bigger than the two plants that have permanently closed on Abente and Lake and Materno — and you have not decided to open any. I don't know what that criterion is that you claim every year that the beds are not closed and open when they are needed. Well, we see how in practice, even though there are patients waiting and already with a prescription of hospitalization, obviously this is not met. Salnes is already a real scandal. And it also happens something similar in Vigo, where, by setting an example, in July, there were more than twenty, twenty-two, patients with no beds assigned, with an order of hospitalization, and two hundred and fifteen beds closed in the Hospital Complex. So, neither primary care nor hospital care, and therefore we don't talk -- or yes -- of those emergencies, of primary care and of what we've already transferred in the morning: the absence of coverage of professional permits and the absence of coverage of everything that you owe them practically since you entered the Government. I mean, not only payroll, but full equipment, proper equipment, etc. We also asked, by the way, how many beds had been closed, and his answer was to give a percentage. The truth is that Mr Aboal in Commission 5 answers better than the written answers you send; it seems that we will always have to ask oral questions in committee. And indeed, Mr. Almuña, we do not know what these criteria are, what are the services that are in each center, why they are moving, why they don't open these beds when there are patients waiting in the emergencies, why you decide, without a clinical criterion or a criterion — let's say — at least technical, that they close each time or that professionals are covered and which they don't. And at the collapses we also asked what is the plan, what is the planning. And I have to remember -- and we've also said it with regard to what happened in the Navy -- that there was practically no reinforcements: an afternoon hooligan and I think a medical professional in the night shift, and my fellow E.R.s actually moved that they were -- and very well -- those who organized themselves. And I have to say that I feel very proud of your work. But the reality is, Mr. Almuño, that every time there's a difficulty there's practically no coverage. And as we already know this happens like this, obviously it wouldn't be different because we were in summer or there was an accident. But besides that, Mr. Almuño, one of your usual excuses is that there are no professionals of second activity. And I've already transferred to you that there are many other professionals -- nursing or physiotherapy, for example -- that you don't cover, and that there are people willing to cover those permissions, because it really isn't even done for the rest of the year. And I'm also telling you because the answer of self-covering -- that's the euphemism that they use to transfer the agendas from professionals to others -- is not a good answer either. I anticipate if that'll be the answer. In short, Mr. Almuña, one more year we've met -- not yet finished the summer -- with which they do not fully comply, not only with the data they ask themselves, because it's true that we ask each year for it. The year they got closer to the answers was last year, and yet they didn't answer which categories of the hospital were covered, nor why they didn't open the closed plants when there was a need; they didn't schedule any more surgeries, and we don't know what the criterion is. And, of course, what is a scandal -- and I suppose you're not going to miss the magnificent opportunity you have to answer today -- is what's happening in primary care. And I'm telling you that I'm frankly concerned, and that you should move out in peace — but not as a smoke, but as a written planning that we can see -- what is the programming of the professionals who are going to be incorporated. Because I guess you know just like me how many retirements you've had in the next few years. And the problem is, you've been hit by forced retirements all these years. And the problem is that we have a lot of a percent - and we have also transferred it to the debate we had before - of resident doctors who end their residence and don't stay because you're making precarious contracts. We want to know whether from now on they will also adopt some contracts — for example, around a year — that will allow them to cover the absences. Or that's what they're going to offer, apart from having the magnificent idea of going out in the media -- as they did on August 2, -- saying that those who want to come, that we're going to hire them. Well, it's almost like a joke or a joke after almost a decade without doing anything in this respect. So today we bring this interpellation. You have the questions in writing and they haven't answered them virtually at any point where you moved in the answer in writing. In the Committee on Health, the People's Parliamentary Group voted against providing information and covering absences. I hope you have something else here today to tell us that everything is very good. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u320	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u321	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. The truth is, Mrs Solla, she's very right. This is an old debate that always brings about and of what even does these interpelations and registers them with months and months in advance, knowing in advance what will happen in Galicia and what the counsellor will say in his interpellation. Look, first of all, I'd like to stress that the beds -- we've repeated them, but unfortunately they don't seem to care about them -- they never talk about closing them; the beds are installed and ready for their use. I also want to say that it's a very old debate because beds are no longer the fundamental element of hospital activity, but now there's a lot more outpatient activity than even with income. For the period from July to September 2018 88,5 % of hospital beds remain in operation, figures similar to other years. Knowing that the rest of the beds are available at all times, any patient who needs a warm hospital bed. And it's also good that we always have a use mattress for extraordinary needs that there may be. In the summer season, and in the case of hospitalization, we estimate the occupation — with a safety margin above the actual occupation — of ten or twelve percent. In 2017 the average occupation of the summer period was 76.1%, speaking from June to September. And, as I said, this summer we kept 88,5% of those beds in operation. I want to make it clear that Sergas guarantees health care in all areas of care, both primary and hospital care, throughout the year, and no services are closed at this or any other time of year. But the proper management of resources is a responsibility that compels us. The adequacy of resources and assistance needs consists of a set of management measures which, ensuring quality and safety in health care, continuously adapt to the health care reality and preserve the efficiency and proper use of public services and funds. Sergas carries out a summer planning by analysing available information, taking into account the care and hospital occupation of previous years, as well as frequenting in the various specialties and expected occupation of beds during the summer season, both by medical income and by surgical activity derivatives. The adequacy of assistance resources in the summer period takes into account the decrease in the demand for care, motivated by the decrease in seasonal morbidity of certain pathologies, especially respiratory diseases. This is the period in which most professionals enjoy their vacations, and these are continuing to operate with the necessary resources. We must add that this type of health planning and management is not a peculiarity of our Greek health system, but it is something that they do throughout the year all the health services in Spain and, of course, in Europe. It must be understood that both health care and care needs are dynamic processes and are therefore contracted according to the availability and number of professionals needed at each time to ensure health care in the centres. In the face of a need for assistance, the agencies, according to their autonomy of management, use the recruitment lists to formalize all the movements they consider necessary, especially during the summer period, in which the right to personal vacations must be reconciled with the attention of the population. Therefore, the management of absences and the planning of substitutions are carried out in the light of the demand for assistance, that is to say, they are replaced with possible staff — as we say in writing — by 100 percent of the absences that are needed according to the needs of each centre. And, of course, I have to say that in colleges, family medicine specialists, pediatricians, and -- at the time of summer -- there's also zero unemployment in nursing. I stop zero because these recruitment lists also allow staff, in the case of nursing essentially, to be able — let's say — to refuse to accept this contract at a given time, and to make full use of the recruitment lists. Of course, no collapse occurred. A collapse is a definition that doctors have very clear what it means and, of course, that doesn't happen in Greek public health. Because — as you have just said — the health service has a planning, coordination between the different levels, which enables you to attend the recent Marisquin accident to more than four hundred sixty patients in almost twenty-four hours; of course with a certain delay in assisting mild patients, but with full and absolute attention to these patients. But it's not just happening right now in the Navy. We also had this summer, unfortunately, another accident that affected different services: the CAP, primary care, the 061 — with that coordination — and of course hospitals to be able to deliver that result, which is a clear example of the system functioning. During the months of July and August 176,466 emergencies were dealt with, 5,798 more than in the same period of 2017; 580,218 hospital consultations were held, with an increase of 3.5%; in primary care consultations 4,086,000, 4.1% more than in the same period of 2017. Therefore, the increase in activity and consultations was both in primary and hospital care, which means 4.1 in the Sergas global. More than twenty-six thousand surgical interventions were performed, seven hundred and three more than in 2017, 2.6 % more; the number of tests in this period was also 458,591, about 7,996 more than in the previous year. With regard to hospitalization, the number of income was 36,400, 0.4% more. The same goes for home hospitalization, where both income and health care visits increased: 8,604 about last year. I repeat that during the months of July and August, with the data available today, the activity of hospital external consultations shows a significant increase, taking 580,218 hospital consultations, which means an increase of 3.5 per cent. The same is true of surgical activity, diagnostic evidence and hospitalization. In the testing rooms, the activity performed shows again that the attention paid is the one necessary to meet the required demand; thus, 458,591 tests were carried out, which means an increase of 1.8%. The system therefore maintains its activity and responds to people's needs. Within the interrogation you present, you speak of alarming waiting lists. Curiously, we have the best record, on June 30, of all history since we've been recording the waiting list, and at the level of December 2017, which was the last data the Ministry provided, we're the fourth best autonomy in terms of waiting list results. In the area of surgery, the Centres of the Galego Health Service have been increasing their care activity over these years and thus the data of the first half of 2018 reflect 110,374 interventions. With regard to surgical waiting, as we said, on June 30, 2018, the Galego Health Service has reached an average time date of surgical waiting of 59.8 days; the best data in the historical series and, of course, — as I say — the fourth autonomy if we compare it within the National Health System. In the areas of disease consultations, 13,405,000 consultations were held, 172,000 more than in the same period of the previous year. And the average delay over recent years in the centres of the Galego Health Service is located in the first half of 2018 in 37.3 days. Also on the rapid pathways of cancer implanted in 2018—mama, colon, lung, prostate, bladder, head, melanoma...—the average expectation was 4.7 days. And in the diagnostic area, the average waiting time for tests in the first half of 2018 was 59.1 days. In priority 1 the average waiting time is 14.9 days, well below the target of thirty days. They have the assurance that the management of human resources in Sergas is done with the criterion of ensuring accurate, safe and quality health care in all areas of care, primary hospitals and continuing care points. Obviously, within this are priorities in primary care, in CAPs and in hospital emergencies, where coverage leads to 100 percent, except — as in some cases may happen — that there were no people on the recruitment list or that they could not make the guards that voluntarily do the primary care professionals. But, of course, we will always try to reach the levels of quality and safety for our patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u322	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u323	Thank you, President. Counselor, I feel like he's bored doing his job and having to come here to answer. It's easy to predict what's going to happen before summer because resources are getting less and less, but it turns out that we're also recording earlier because we want to know what the planning they make for summer, considering that all summers close services, beds and that there's more and more waiting lists in primary care, Mr. Almuña. So I'm sorry if you're bored having to come to do your job. Look: the data it offers — it's part of being quite predictable that you would read the same written answer that facilitated us by the Health Council and that, therefore, you came here today to make a paripé, i.e., you could offer some real answer and not an abstract criterion — obviously do not respond to reality. You say the occupation is a percentage and every year it's changing. The occupation of beds in hospitals, Mr. Almuínña, is conditioned by the scheduled incomes, both of surgical interventions and for evidence and other elements, in addition to the emergencies that arise, of course. If you don't fill out these services, obviously there's less revenue programmed and, therefore, there's no greater occupation because you don't make it easy for that occupation to be done. That transfer every year that euphemism concerning which the beds are not closed is almost already a joke or a joke that you make to this parliament, to the Greeks and to the Greeks, every year. And, of course, to say here that it's practically the nurses' fault because they refuse contracts and it can't be covered is practically incredible. I have, unfortunately, been away for several years for doing this job here, but I have to remind you that when they call us, and when they keep calling for contracts, they threaten professionals, and it's not so easy to refuse to take a contract. I don't think you know what's in your hands. On many occasions it gets away with how services are handled, and if you don't know how to move it. Because it's said here that it's the professional's fault — as it's moved in the morning — it's got it, Counselor. See if there are no professionals now because, of course, they're so bad that they refuse the garbage contracts that you offer them. And even above all, it's the professional's fault, because you don't know who's responsible for not having professionals in some categories. Look, if you were a little serious, if the Council was a little serious, every time we asked about this element, you would move what services you can't cover because there's no certain professional. I've been asking about it for years. It never answers, because you don't want to answer reality. Because it's not that in all services there are no professionals to cover them, what happens is that it's a desire not to cover vacations and permits. That's the reality. And please don't talk to us about waiting lists, because their waiting lists are fake. Obviously, if you have a device to be able to retouch the data offered on a waiting list, anyone has a waiting list that's favorable to you, Mr. Almuña. Please, we've been discussing this for years. And, frankly, I have to remind you here again that when you weren't in the government, you were asking for the waiting data from the non-structural lists... that's the last time we said it. But, of course, it's also the last time the Board gives the floor for an answer. It'll almost do two years of a request for information in the wake of article 9 -- I think we're already hitting the records on non-structural waiting lists -- which is not answered. You guys have a month and they've been almost two years; the thing seems to be pretty good. And I don't know if they're going to encourage the rest of the legislation to continue without answering this data. Because, Mr. Padre, it's not worth offering some data that are false and then come here to say that everything is right. Unfortunately, people perceive in the expectation that they have, both in primary care -- that already exceeds ten days in many health centers -- and in specialized care, that what you move here is not real. And at the beginning of the previous legislation, the obvious problems of waiting for primary care began. I'm talking about the previous legislation because I wasn't here before and I didn't have a chance to debate this circumstance. But as time goes on, and you've forced and you're forced to retire to professionals, and you don't meet the needs -- both the structural and the punctual absences that make the work load of other fellows, who have to take care of those TSIs, of those expectations, of those people who have to be cared for -- it's more and more waiting. And I don't get to get over ten days for attention. And, please, what are you going to do with the points of continued attention? And I repeat what I said in the morning: what happened on the Road could happen a thousand times because there are not enough professionals, and we've been telling them for years. The professionals moved an example: the CAP of the Guard, which I believe was also spoken here in the morning, where there is a medical professional and a nursing professional to a center, to a village that is 50 minutes away from a hospital. These professionals are constantly taking care of homes, emergencies and all the work they have ahead of them. It's not, unfortunately, an exception; there are many points of continued attention in our country. Let's imagine ourselves in rural areas. Let's imagine ourselves in faraway areas. What are you going to do with this?, are we going to continue the same, are you going to fill those deficiencies, are you going to sit with the professionals? And please see if you can give us the real and concrete criterion of services that are closed — with the name and name of the service — which are the professionals who cannot be covered by specialty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u324	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u325	...and then we'll value whether it's appropriate or not. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u326	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close the interrogation, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u327	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Solla, when she has no argument, she's going to insult herself. It is a matter of saying that I come to make a mockery of the honourable Members or that the facts I bring are false. The data that gives you a waiting list are the ones that use all autonomous communities in Spain, all of them. That data, measured exactly the same for all of Spain, turns out to us that Galicia is the fourth with better data. So I think you should remove the words — speaking from "false data" — when what you're saying is a lie. I, of course, don't come here to blame professionals. Precisely, I also know how hospitals and the magnificent professionals we have, because I also worked in emergencies, worked in hospital services and also in primary care. And I was also at night in the Marisqueño, though some of his companions asked where the councillor was on the night of the Marisqueño. Well, I was talking to 061, coordinating and, of course, in hospitals that had the greatest demand at that time. And the work the professionals did that night was magnificent, just as I also have to congratulate — as was said in this parliament — all the injured people in the Marisqueño, because they were new people who, of course, collaborated extraordinarily with the professionals to do that night, taking her as best possible. [[Applause]] And that's why I think we have a magnificent group of professionals and also a citizenship that knows, respects and values the public health service. And he said that's what a health service should be: that there is coordination, coordination and, of course, flexibility and adapt to the circumstances that are needed at every moment. And the occupation can be measured and measured every year, every summer, as it is done. And it's said that we've been, of course, giving about ten or twelve percent over real needs at every moment, with the right professionals. And, of course, anyone who speaks ill of professionals is not this counselor or his team. That will have to be left for other people who want to attack the government and attack the professionals. They do attack professionals. And for nothing, we said, in my first intervention, that it was the fault of the nurses who refused the call. But what I'm saying is that at certain times the recruitment lists are empty and there is no possibility of recruitment. This happens, and it happens in medical personnel, such as family doctors and pediatricians, and it happens also at certain times with nursing. All this, during the months of July and August, the data, as I said, demonstrated the general activity, which led to increases in all areas of care: in external and hospital consultations, an increase of 3.5 % compared to the previous year; also in surgical activity, with 26,891 interventions carried out, 703 more than in 2017. The number of tests has also increased at this time, as we said earlier. And of course we have to say that we will always adapt the assistance resources to the needs that the people of Greece require, at every moment, and that of course is our commitment. We can say that we have 1,544 professionals over nine years ago; that's certainly measurable. That's not the data we've invented, that's the measurable data we've got there. And in addition, the number of family doctors increased by 7%, from 2,434 in 2008 to 2,601 in 2017. The Health Council continues, therefore, with its commitment to achieving greater stability quotas for its staff. They said there was forced retirement. This occurred throughout Spain because of problems of the economy, by the way, which left progressive governments this country in absolute breakdown, and action had to be taken, and taken at the level of all autonomous communities. Galicia, in fact, was the last to reach this measure. And it was also the first one that recovered voluntary retirement, and as a mark we already have people who asked for three extensions and our idea is to expand it until the age of 70. That's why we're going to continue. And in the MIR, in family doctors, we spent two years from 90 squares to 105, which we published this year to form. In pediatrics we want to keep going, for the moment with problems; I talked to the minister three days ago, we're going to see if we could fix the subject, and that's why we'll have to talk to the new minister again, see if we can do it. But, of course, we're not going to stop. We have recently made an agreement on professional career with all trade unions — sorry, almost all trade unions —. For what? To put in value precisely the magnificent professions that we have. And we're going to get all the rights back. We're going to continue working, as I say, for planning, for creating activity, and, of course, there are no cuts in health, no cuts in health. Of course — and the Business Council is sometimes a witness — we have even increased every year's budget, and this year, specifically in August, comparing July and August of 2017 with 2018, an increase in chapter I, staff recruitment, with respect to the previous year, over one million euros. So I don't know where the cut is. The snippet, as I say...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u328	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u329	...have seen other kinds of political strategies that have led this country near the crash. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u330	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to the eighth item on the agenda, questions to the Government. You know, times are stricter here. Question by Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and four other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the measures he intends to develop the Government of Galicia to effectively promote and support instruments of metropolitan management of services in the area of the metropolitan area of Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u331	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u332	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon. I understand that in this case, the Vice-President will answer this question or the Infrastructure Adviser — I do not know —. In any case, the exhibition part of the question is already known, and we are at an important and timely time to move and insist on this concern that we have from the Coruña, from the metropolitan area of the Coruña, since during 2019 we have to take part in the new situation of transport licences, but it happens that in the 2nd Commission of Territorial Planning and Public Works, of July 14, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we have basically raised two questions. One first, in which we urged a true and authentic transport plan to the Coruña area, with the creation of the single transport authority, with the mission, basically, to plan, coordinate and manage the transport service of travellers in the city and in the whole metropolitan area. Secondly, obviously take this forecast into account in Galicia's public transport plan, which was and is being processed, on the initiative of the mayors' and mayors' table in the metropolitan area, in coordination also with the municipalities of Carballo, Cerceda and Laracha, both for the purposes of planning and integration of the transport lines and of the consideration of this consortium as a unique authority in this area in the metropolitan area that is finally delimited. The reply of the People's Parliamentary Group, and the resultant negative vote on this GNP in Commission 2a, is that this meant, i.e., institutional speaking of metropolitan transport, literally starting the house on the roof. That is why we want to know whether the Galician Union, if it would advise it in this case, shares this view, and that it has precisely to take this initiative forward, in coordination and in discussions — which we are aware of — with the mayors' and mayors' table. Because in the area of the Coruña some steps have been taken in the area of metropolitan service management, even since the city's municipal initiative, by bringing together the treatment of solid and urban waste in Nostian, the management of the water cycle, with EMALCSA, the EDAR of Goods, and, in addition, we have to cite the 2005 transport agreements between Junta and Town Councils, councils that were of that The Coruña, Artixo, Chamber, Culleredo and Oleiros, which were renewed in 2009. It's a step forward with the integrated tariff system through the metropolitan card, but now we're at a new moment in the metropolitan strategy 2014-2020, where they're working together at the mayor's and mayor's table in the area. We are an area, besides, about 400,50,000 inhabitants, with an airport, in the hinterland with Ferrol two ports of general interest, with an important network...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u333	Thank you, Mr. Villoslada. Your time is up. The question already knows her. Thank you. Your time is up. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Mr. Villoslada. I understand the confusion, it was logical — moreover, the counselor came in when you asked his question — on the subject, but let me tell him: I think who should come and answer it, and the fact that you doubt who has to answer it, I think... No, I understand what I mean, because I think this is important. [[Mr. Díaz Villoslada pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I hope we draw conclusions from your question and my answer. Whether you're still wondering, or whether you're still wondering what the clear evidence is that you're still really wondering if you want or not a metropolitan area, because at the end of your question, you're talking about metropolitan services. Hey! Service service, finally building an area. What you'll have to know is whether you want a metropolitan area or not, because in the end, the metropolitan transport service is one more consequence, if you allow me, is almost a sample that the Junta is doing is getting ahead of what the municipalities should have agreed on earlier. We also have a lot to do there, but as for the political will to see everything with an optical metro, we're doing it ourselves and we're not finally doing it in the city halls, or at least they're not doing it as we think we should do it, or at least that will not show us so that the metropolitan area is a reality. You have a lot of confusion. I want to remember that Mr. Méndez Romeo, with regard to the Vigo Metropolitan Area, who was the first to become a reality — although later the mayor of Vigo managed not to do so — when he spoke of the Vigo Metropolitan Area, lowered the category, said that it was better to make a consortium than a metropolitan area, although it was perfectly delimited what was to be done, it did not proceed, and Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo was head of local administration, and suddenly they lowered the category, and they didn't see this as a political advance in terms of having local and political autonomy the municipalities that wanted to form the metropolitan area, but rather rather as something administrative. So, I think it was a good time for you to decide exactly what you want to do, and stating, as it appears — it seems to be — many statements, which want to give you forward to the metropolitan area, because what you have to do is agree all the municipalities and so be it. You know that the president of Galician Union, in the last conversation with the mayor of the Crown, what he said, when he came to the subject, was: first, that there were no plenary agreements, starting with the Town Hall of the Crown. Second, the total number of municipalities was missing, of the seventeen. I understand we're starting from the base that should be the seventeen. Or are we going to leave metropolitan services, some ten, some twelve and some seventeen? They'll have to be seventeen at all; otherwise, I'm telling you this won't work. And metropolitan transport will be a service that drives the Union, but without any political framework, as I understand you want. And finally, what they have to know and what they have to tell the Galician Council, if they want our cooperation and our collaboration, which is our obligation, is to say what they really want to manage from the metropolitan area. What do you want just the transport service? Well, I think we're already taking enough steps. That they want to be something else? They agree first and then tell us exactly what they want to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u335	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u336	Mr. Vice-President and Public Administration Counsellor, we have no confusion, I don't know if you have any confusion, or in this case, the Infrastructure Council does not want to account for the specific matter that we've been dealing with. Because there are different ways of addressing metropolitan development in the areas, in Spain and throughout Europe, and you can formulate metropolitan areas in a broad sense or you can formulate metropolitan areas by first providing metropolitan services, which is the highest demand for the neighbors have. We have formulated the clear need, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and from the Socialist Municipal Group, to take a specific, specific metropolitan first step in the field of transport. Why? Because in the metropolitan area, in economic and social terms, the biggest problem and the greatest challenge we have is precisely to manage and plan transport in a supra-municipal way, not only for road travellers. That's why we clearly formulate an initiative to set up a single metropolitan transport authority. Another thing is that we can then move forward in the formation of the Coruña metropolitan area and integrate these services, but the most demanding neighbors have is mobility. That's why we put this question, so we want to answer, so we want to know whether to really provide metropolitan transport services is actually to start home by the roof or start home by the floor, as well as other cities that have advanced, both in Spain and the rest of Europe. Or is it that managing lines specifically, putting patches between Oleiros and La Coruña, linking Culleredo with Artexo via Zapateira, is managing metropolitan transport, Madam Counsellor? That is why — and we are told that there are talks with mayors and metropolitan mayors — this is a clear first step to bet on metropolitan services throughout the Coruña area, in economic terms, in social terms. They don't hide that in the Vigo field they haven't implemented it, as long as it's you who have the Vigo Metropolitan Area submitted to the courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u337	Thank you, Mr. Villoslada. Close the question, Mr Vice-President and President-in-Office of the Council, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u338	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villoslada, if what I have to understand here is that I am talking to the Socialist Party of the Crown and therefore I have to see that and if I want to talk to the Socialist Party of Vigo there are other Members to speak, and there is no Socialist Party united with its own criterion, because then very well, of course. That's what you just said. Look, we were told in Vigo, all the mayors, including those of their party: first, metropolitan area, and then, services, which we consider appropriate. Another thing is that then Vigo's mayor, as always, blew it up, because it doesn't suit him and he doesn't care about the rest of the municipalities. But they told us: first, metropolitan area, and then services. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You just said: first, services, and then the metropolitan area, with which you are certifying that they are actually unable; today you have just said so; I suppose you will speak in the name of the mayors of your future party members — now I see that no longer — of the metropolitan area of the Coruña, which will not be possible, that there is no political capacity to make them all agree or if you know exactly what they want to do. So let's start with a specific service. Well, if we have to start with a specific service, I think that's exactly what the responsible advisor for that matter is doing, the advisor who's organizing, just as he's organized elsewhere in Galicia, metropolitan transport. We'll do it in the Coruña, too. I'm so sorry that you give up something else, at least the Socialist Party. I'm very sorry to see once again that the Socialist Party does not have a single criterion, each one goes to its side, and what they say in one place is exactly the opposite of what they say in another. So it's impossible to have the collaboration of other administrations, as much as the Galician Union wants to collaborate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u339	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Maria Julia Rodríguez Barreira and six other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the actions of the Galician Union in the field of road conservation, and the priorities for action
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u340	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u341	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Counsellor, the question we put to you from the Popular Group has to do with road safety, more specifically one of the elements that influence or affect the production of accidents: the state of the roads. Even though 80% of accidents occur as a result of human factor, distraction, excessive speed or even driving under the effects of alcohol or drugs, also the state of vehicles and, as otherwise, the state of roads, because it has its percentage incidence on sinisterity. The correction of the human factor depends on everyone's commitment and awareness, but the maintenance and maintenance of roads undoubtedly depends on the actions that run administrations to that end within the framework of their ownership. And I mean all the administrations, because we're here today to talk about the conservation of the roads of autonomous ownership, and you've been fully aware of the measures that since your advice are being taken in compliance with the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan and the important investor effort that has been developing the German Government to that end. But there are a lot of demands for action within the framework of the competences of other governments in matters of security that everyone, within the boundaries we know, we know that they are not being treated. And, therefore, the desirable thing would be to achieve the commitment of the rest of the administrations that have competence in this area and that do not always properly address this important issue. And it's important because most accidents occur on conventional roads. And, in addition, there is currently a certain rebound of the fallacy — according to the data that transfers the Directorate-General for Traffic — throughout the state and also in Galicia, as in most communities, despite the work and the investor effort that the Government is making in this sense. You and your team—as I told you—are aware of many actions in this direction in the Winter Road Plan and in the conservation of roads. But this commitment is also very important because it has an impact on society as a whole. We are all beneficiaries of the road safety measures, because all — like pawns, as cyclists or as drivers or occupants — are beneficiaries and we are ultimately road users. So it's thousands of miles that you have to deal with, and this, of course, represents a very high cost in its conservation. This probably forces us to set a priority order. We see that we are approaching the winter season, and we see, in addition, that this summer there have been major disasters, which certainly also require their intervention. In other administrations too, in this case; but surely within the framework of their competences there will also be something to tell us about this. And that's why we ask you what are the activities that regularly develop the Galician Union in road conservation and what are your priorities for action in this regard. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u342	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u343	Thank you, President. Of course, for the Galician Union, road safety is a strategic and priority matter. We're talking about people's lives and integrity, and we're concerned about the evolution of sinlessness this year 2018, bearing in mind that in 2017, last year, there was a positive trend because it had the lowest figure of dead in history. But we need to evaluate the current situation about the trend we are having in 2018. And that's why we call on the Spanish Government delegation to call on the Autonomic Commission for Traffic and Road Safety to continue working together, in addition to efforts and, of course, intensifying measures to improve road safety. Since the Galician Union we've been working with a very clear roadmap, which is the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan. It is a living plan, with concrete and specific measures and bearing in mind that multiple factors influence road safety. And within that plan, a specific measure — as you know — is the good state and conservation of roads with different properties. The Galician Union is 5500 kilometers in total. We have the conviction that it is so important to do new works as, of course, to keep in good condition those we have. We are making an important investor effort in the conservation of roads in Galicia at 5,500 kilometers. This year 2018 is EUR 55 million which we are planning to allocate, and for ordinary conservation, extraordinary conservation, firm reinforcements and specific measures in certain actions. We're talking about 10,000 euros for every mile of Junta's title roads so they're in good condition. We're talking about ordinary road conservation, for what the Winter Roadmap is planning. Every November we activate this Winter Roadmap so that the conditions of circulation are suitable for all users and prevent the effects of adverse climate. In terms of extraordinary conservation there is the firm reinforcement plan, a plan that we have been developing year by year. But the truth is that this year 2018 we doubled our efforts and increased from 15 million euros last year to 20 million euros this year. It is an important conservation work to avoid deterioration and preventive actions, of course, which are more technically and economically effective, thus improving functionality. But in any case, we also have a specific programme of safety and inspection of bridges and road passes; periodic and constant inspections to anticipate possible problems and avoid future problems. Because since the good state of infrastructure is not a single factor, there are other conditions. But the fact is that all administrations have an obligation to inspect our infrastructures to ensure their proper conservation. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u344	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u345	Thank you, Counselor. I appreciate your reply and the data you give us, and above all, I appreciate the work you've been doing since your advice if you're doing for the improvement of road safety on the autonomous roads of Galicia. And if it is important that this work of what has just been taken into account in the matter of conservation — of ordinary conservation, of extraordinary actions also for the improvement of road safety or the elements of roads — and of the Roadmap, because we find this very interesting about what it says: of the specific safety and inspection programme of bridges and other works on the roads of Junta. This is important at a time when — as I mentioned earlier — sinister summers — obviously dependent on other administrations — have occurred. But we could refer to this very serious accident that took place in Italy and that we realize the importance of inspecting these large and huge structures that build in the long term and that in time they will suffer a deterioration. But here in our autonomous community, we have also had a very serious sin that has occurred, in this case, with the overthrow of the Vigo tour in the Marisquiño framework, which also reveals that other administrations have to assume their competences and responsibilities, and to ensure that users use these infrastructures in security conditions. And that's why we are interested, Counsellor, to know what this program of inspection and security of bridges and other works on autonomic roads consists of, what kind of inspections are being carried out, how often these inspections are being carried out, what is the result of these inspections, and what is the investor effort that this is representing to the German Government. And, ultimately, Counsellor, what we want to ask you, and what we want you to know, is whether we can tell the Greeks that we can be calm about the safety of our roads, and, in detail, those large structures, bridges and highways that are found on the autonomous roads. And I appreciate your reply again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u346	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Close the question. Director of Infrastructure and Housing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u347	Thank you, President. Indeed, I would like to point out that, in relation to the specific safety and inspection programme for passageways, viaducts and bridges, Galicia has been a pioneer in that specific security programme to have full knowledge of the state of the road network of the Union of Galicia, to assess its state and to know, of course, the specific needs of intervention needed to be carried out and anticipated — as I said in my first intervention — possible problems and to avoid these possible problems, to design and project the actions necessary to ensure the conservation of our roads and, above all, to ensure security. There are different types of inspection: routine periodic inspections, between every fifteen and eighteen months; in-depth inspections, with varying frequencies but generally every five years; and also specific inspections in case there is any element that justifies it, as was recently on the bridge of Mercy, in Viveiro, or on the bridge of the Boat itself, in Pontevedra. We are talking about permanent control of structures by the Galician Union to ensure security and also increase the useful life of our structures of the Galician Union, the property of the Galician Union, with this specific security program of bridges and works of passage to ensure the good state of conservation. Bridges that need a special inspection do not reach 1%, i.e. a deeper inspection. And when these deep inspections were carried out, the truth is that mild problems have been detected, such as cracks or certain corrosions in the armor; problems that have been solved with timely rehabilitation projects, preventive treatments; and hence preventive actions to anticipate and avoid possible problems. And as I say, we inspect and act where we need to anticipate problems. We know that the concrete is not eternal, so we have to carry out controls, we have to inspect. And the Union, of course, pays special attention to the extraordinary conservation. Since 2009 there have been EUR 31 million intended for extraordinary conservation — part of ordinary conservation. In particular, it was EUR 19 million for bridge performances, in interventions that don't mean an aesthetic improvement, but it's mainly a functional improvement and therefore safe. It is 1,837 the properties of the Galician Union, 76% in watercourses. But the fact is that the rest of the administrations must also be involved, the state, the deputies and the municipalities have, of course, responsibilities. I'd like to take advantage of the Catoira Bridge case. Their own users report and warn of their deterioration. Since then, the provincial deputations of Pontevedra and the Coruña, which are the headlines, act, just as, on the White Bridge, in Lugo, the discrepancies between the Town Hall of Lugo and the Ministry of Development are arranged to clarify its conservation. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u348	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the management that is being carried out by the Government of Galicia to ensure the continuity and viability of the company Madeira Churches
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u349	Question by Mr. Xosé Luís Bará of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u350	Good afternoon, Mr. Count. We have brought here Madeira Churches for the fourth time since a BNG initiative was approved in this Parliament, which commanded the Galician Union to guarantee viability and defend jobs in this company. And the reality is that the situation was the worst, we're worse than in January. And that's why we ask you here for information and explanations on the role that Junta has played in these months and the managements it has carried out to ensure that Parliamentary agreement. I'm saying it was the worst because we're in a critical and limited moment. Workers and workers were forced to start a strike to defend their labor rights, for something as elementary and as basic as collecting wages and negotiating a new agreement. And you tell them to give up the strike, to work without charge and without agreement. You act as a Valor of the entrepreneur, as you always did, who set him as an example and a model. Look, there are two issues at stake here. The first has to do with the labour conflict. Yesterday there was a meeting at the Galego Labour Relations Council, and there was a pre-agreement that was rejected, in principle, by the assembly. In any case, we are — let's say — playing this ball, but the ball of party, the fundamental question, the fundamental question, is to ensure the viability of the company. And you've been missing all these months since January. He was hidden behind an inoperative Igape, as demonstrated at the meeting with the staff, with the company committee, of August 30, in which the director of Igape showed an absolute ignorance of the company's situation and his surprise that the situation was worse. So what we're telling you here, Mr. Counsellor, is that you face it, which defends the work and the viability of this company, which is a strategic company in the south of Pontevedra, a deserted area, with continued relocation of companies. It's a company in a sector, besides, fundamental, the transformation of wood, where 200 people work, 80% women. We therefore ask you to fulfil your parliamentary mandate of 17 October, which was the result of a unanimous agreement by all groups; that it also responds to the unanimous demand of the mayorates of the municipalities of this whole area, and that the Union deal with negotiations to ensure the viability of Madeira Churches, negotiations with the entrepreneur, with the company committee, with the financial institutions and also with possible investor groups. And in this sense, we want to ask you whether it is true — as Igape's director said — that there was an investor group interested in this company but that operation was frustrated by the financial institutions' refusal to renegotiate debt. What is the role of the Industry Council, and you personally on this subject? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u351	Thank you, Mr Bará. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u352	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Bará, unfortunately, and for the fourth time, it is wrong in the story, it is wrong in the diagnosis. But the most important thing is that it is also wrong in the possible solution that can be put forward for the Church Woods. Indeed, the commitment of the Galician Union was to seek the viability and continuity of business and the burden of work, that was to the agreement of this Parliament and that, exactly that, is what the Government of Greece has been doing since the end of last year, by continuing meetings with all sides, with the workers, with the company, also with the investors and thus being an active part at all times to seek a solution for the Church Woods. I therefore believe that I should not try to bring this debate here to Parliament simply to divert attention. Because, Your Honor, the objective is nothing other than to identify a business project, an industrial project that is viable and therefore allows that viability in the medium and long term. At this moment in Madeira Churches there is a burden of work. Now there are demands and, therefore, right now we have a scenario that within the difficulty, with the enormous debt that the company has, it's true that we have to look for a financial solution. So the solution goes through an investor's arrival, and it also goes through agreements with current creditors, and in that sense we're working together with the company to give that solution. Indeed, the company is the one who has to give the visa and pleases and close the agreement with that investor partner, and in that sense knows the company that counts with the assistance of the Galician Union. But, Mr Bará, there is a third element that you also bring here and with which you try to divert attention. Here is a co-responsibility of all, there is a co-responsibility of the company, there is a co-responsibility of employers and, of course, also a co-responsibility of the administration. But the company has opened the dialogue, it has to indeed identify this solution from the point of view of the financing plan, it has to restore the trust of the workers. But workers also have to find a way to conjure up that indefinite strike that at nothing helps the company's situation; especially if we want to achieve a future for jobs. That's where he's mediating the Galego Labour Relations Council. And you know that there are bases for an agreement, you know that in that concern you respond to the demands of the workers. And what we expect is that we can find that agreement. I think it must stop dividing, it must stop politicizing this situation and it must seek and accompany all parties in order to find that agreement and not use Parliament to divert attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u353	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u354	Counselor, even if he's a "count" he should have a little more humility. We find it intolerable, absolutely unheard of, that he comes here again, as he has already done through the press -- he did it through the press, which he didn't dare tell his face -- to blame the workers of the company situation and ask them to work without charge. [[Laughter]] How can you tell the workers, who have been unpaid for months, who haven't paid the extra wages yet, who are going to work without paying? They're exercising a legitimate right to strike to ensure that labor rights are respected and because they're fed up, in addition to being deceived, to be mocked by them. And so they want that to be done. And it is true that at the Galego Labour Relations Council there have been negotiations, there is a pre-agreement, but the assembly is sovereign to make a decision and to decide whether to trust or not to trust the entrepreneur. But, I tell you, this is a fundamental problem, the underlying problem has to do with the company's survival, the viability of the company, the entry of an investor fund and the role that Joina plays here to ensure minimum conditions. And the fact is, at the meeting on August 30 in Vigo, Igape was shocked because the Director of the Igape had left on vacations thinking that the problem was solved and it turns out that he was frustrated, supposedly by the opposition of certain banking entities—among them, it seems, Abanca, that he received billions of public funds and now refuses to help the survival of a Galician company—. So we told you once again that you are no longer missing, that you are face-to-face, that you are facing, that you are defending jobs in a strategic sector, that you are also defending the public interest — because this company has received bailouts from the Galician Union — and therefore is facing negotiations to find a way out of this conflict and this critical situation. Let him, therefore, be an evaluator of the businessman, as he always did, putting it, as I said, for example...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u355	Thank you, Mr Bará, your time is up. [[Applause]] Thank you, thank you, thank you very much. Close this question by Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u356	That you speak of humility is anecdotic. I would suggest that you stop being a spokesman. I don't know who and what you report before you come to Parliament. Because you should know that this government, in particular the councillor, met with the company committee and with the mayors last Friday, September 5. And everything I told you in the first intervention, exactly everything, I said directly to the company committee, exactly. So I don't come here to say different things. I am moving objectively the situation that we have, with total realism, to the workers just like the company — which I met this very morning. And, therefore, this Council is leading and is being an active part of the solution. What you just come here to try to divide and politicize the situation of Madeira Churches — as I have already told you — is you. And so there won't be a solution for the workers. The solution for the workers will be to identify that industrial project that makes that financing plan viable and, of course, an agreement to resolve the labour conflict and which can therefore be called into question. Because that's the beginning of the solution for Church Woods. You know that and you just want to come here to feed a conflict that would at no time give Madeira Churches a solution. We know BNG's solutions in these kinds of situations, we know them well. Remember Alfageme? You put 32 million euros that eventually paid all the Greeks. That's not the solution. The solution of Madeira Churches is that there is a viable project, which can be agreed upon by investors, financial entities and, logically, also accompanied by the Council of Galicia. Of course, if the solution that you want to propose to Madeira Churches is the same as they proposed at the time for Alfageme or for Madeira Montouto, don't count on this Government, because they caused a breakdown to the Greeks and they didn't achieve the viability of these companies. So we have to keep working. We will continue to dialogue and lead the solution for Madeira Churches from the Council, along with the company and the workers themselves. We understand that the first step is the call to strike, the next step is, of course, to continue to work to identify that industrial project and those investors that allow agreement with financial institutions and ultimately find an answer. Mr Bará, even if you don't want to acknowledge it, the workers of Woods Churches know that in the Greek Government they have an ally, and the workers of Elnosa certainly know that the Galician Nationalist Block cannot say the same thing, because you say something to some companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u357	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u358	...and other totally different for others. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u359	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Luís Villares Naveira and three other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the actions planned by the Galician Council in the face of the dramatic employment situations facing various companies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u360	Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u361	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor, we'll continue on the same subject. This morning Mr Calvo defended a GNP asking for EUR 20 million to support Naturgy in Meirama. He's been very concerned about a company that can't be said to be in a crisis situation. We hope that they will have similar concerns and involvement with the medium-sized businesses in crisis, which generate much more jobs than many large businesses, jobs that are at risk in several cases. One more year we attended a dramatic summer period for certain industrial jobs in Galicia. Thus, hundreds of jobs today are at risk for both unacceptable business decisions and the lack of control exercised by the Administration. Today workers of Inverterage, Vestas, Madeira Churches or Sargadelos face an uncertain future for their jobs and hence for the well-being of their families. All of them with a previous track record of leaders in their respective sectors and essential to Galicia's industrial fabric. Despite the seriousness of the situation facing these workplaces, we have found an effective inaction by the Galician Union, unable once again to address with guarantees for employment the processes of this type that are given in Greek plants. Despite the continuing allegations in favour of the industrial employment of the German Government, every time there are concrete situations of possible job losses, the Autonomic Administration is unable to act with diligence, consistency and proactivity, thus ensuring jobs, always opting for passivity and trying to avoid problems or with a purely protocol involvement. Whenever we ask the Director General of the Igape about these conflicts in Commission 6th, the answers are always the same: "we're in that," or "we're looking for solutions within our competences." This writes because, as you've repeated to me four times, I've got it almost memorized. Specific information about what is being done is never provided. When there are successes, the Council is always competent and almost essential. When there are problems, the competitions are running. So today the industrial sector has thousands of jobs lost in respect of the beginning of Mr Feijóo's government. During these years industrial employment in Galicia lost 46,600 jobs, 21.5%; it reached minimum in 2014, with a slight recovery until 2017, but now, unfortunately, the trend has reversed this year and we continue to lose industrial employment again. Today there are fewer people working in the Greek industry than at the end of 2017. Many of the problems of the aforementioned industrial enterprises, reverses, vests, timber churches or Sargadelos, have nothing to do with their possibilities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u362	Thank you, Mr. Casal, your time is up. Thank you. No, thanks, that's it. [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] The question is known, which is on the paper, don't worry. Thank you. No, thanks, that's it, time's up. [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You know how this is about questions. Time's up. [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, I'm sorry, I'm short. I think in time they're pretty clear and I treat everyone the same. Let's not be wrong. The Economic Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u363	Mr. Casal, I sincerely believe you should update your speech, because it is simply empty of content. I regret the lack of coherence your group has when they want to talk about industry. Because they want to defend the industry but the facts of the Tides and the facts of Podemos show that their speech is simply pure theatre. They come here to the theatre Parliament. I'd like to know why In Marea is opposed to Navantia's contract with Saudi Arabia. I'd like to know why. I'd like to know why they oppose the continuity of the Meirama and the Bridges. More importantly, I'd like them to explain it to the business committees. Just as I'd like you to explain why they're opposed — and moved it to the workers — to the Ence-Elnosa complex. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Or I'd like to know why they also oppose the development of the wind sector or mining itself. So it seems that in your group there are first-time workers and second-rate workers. But this government, Your Honor, simply maintains a criterion, a criterion that is firm, that is to defend industry, that is to fix industrial fabric in Galicia with a criterion: that projects are viable, that there is an industrial project that is competitive and that can guarantee the viability of the company. And in that context, that's what we're working on. And I think I should review the figures. Because, if you analyze the industry's affiliate data, you'll see how, since 2014, 20,168 affiliates have been recovered, growing above the average of Spain. Just like wages, wages are also the second highest in the industry in Spain, or in the industrial production index itself. Therefore, the Government continues to work and defend the industry with responsibility, with dialogue and taking into account the difficulties that may be encountered by companies like the ones you mentioned. We've already talked about Madeira Churches, with which we're working to find that alternative that gives viability to the company. And the same thing happens to Sargadelos, with whom, although circumstances are different, we are working with the unions to find a solution; or in Vestas, who knows that in August we had a meeting with the Minister of Industry to transfer the commitment of the Galician Council to collaborate with the maintenance of activity and employment at the Chavin factory. Therefore, the Galician Union will always be where industrial employment is needed, where industry needs it, working for the sustainability of industry, and not distinguishing between industries or workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u364	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Casal's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u365	You actually talk about empty speeches, but you don't answer anything, you don't say anything concrete. I asked him about Reverses. I asked him about Sargadelos. What are they going to do in a concrete way? They're looking for a partner? For example, in Investaresa I have information that if there are solvent partners interested. Are you doing anything to Junta de Galicia about this? And there's more specific data. You say in 2014 there were 154,000 people given up in social security in the industrial sector. In 2017, in fact, it rose to 18,000 employees. But it turns out that in the course of the year — and you know it — more than 2,000 have been lost. In other words, it is not a false data that has reversed the path of growth, and that the path of growth, in addition, is much lower than the rest of Spain. But we're going to talk about what I was asking. If, indeed, Mr Conde, we prefer Sargadelos, we prefer industries that develop complete production cycles in the country, which are totally commercialized from Galicia's own means of production, rather than the Ence. Why? Well, of course, Ence can generate 200, 250 or 300 jobs, but it destroys more than 1,500 jobs in the stream. You'll know very well how many people work in Pontevedra's laugh, won't you? You'll know how many people work in the shellfish in the brougham of Girl, the average income they have, and also how many people stop working in the brougham of Pontevedra. The future cannot be based on destroying the ecosystem. That's the future of countries without a mindset of progress and a real future, not that of where all the developed economies go. That's why we're against companies like Ence. Besides, companies, like Ence, that in their trajectory had to be closed. But, of course, the turning doors, corruption, allowed a government to function — that is a real scandal — to increase its sixty years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u366	Thank you, Mr. Casal, your time is up. Thank you, your time is up. [[Applause]] Close this question by the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u367	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, this government will continue to defend the workers of Navantia, the workers of Meirama, the workers of the Bridges, the workers of Ence, the workers of Elnosa, the workers of the wind sector and the workers of mining. I'm sorry that In Marea wants to close all these companies. [[Applause]] But, Mr. Casal, I'll tell you more. Unfortunately, En Marea's speech always goes with a double language. I would ask you why in any of the cities where you rule in Marea you want to collaborate with the Galician Union to capture investments. Do you want to explain to me why you in either of the cities have pushed an agreement with the Galician board to lower taxes, to speed up administrative procedures and to favor the processes that industry needs to develop and, therefore, to capture investments, knowing that this does not generate any kind of breakdown in municipal revenues? [[Murmurs.]] You mean to tell me why you don't cooperate with Galician industrial fabric where they rule? Do you also want to explain it to companies that want to be implemented in these cities? It's a double language that, unfortunately, does not help to generate industrial fabric in Galicia. We will continue to work so that Madeira Churches can find an investor and, therefore, can give him viability. We are in permanent meetings with the company, with the workers and with the investors; exactly as with Sargadelos, that we manage to unlock the situation and, therefore, that both parties feel to negotiate with the sole objective of achieving the stability of this business agent and thus maintaining jobs. We're still watching the investment plans at the vest factory in Chavin. And, of course, Mr Casal, of course, we are at meetings with the competition manager, with the business committee and with investors interested in investing in Investaresa. Of course I do, of course I do, and the workers and the company committee know it. Just like we're helping Vulcan develop that construction of a ferry and we're working with any industry with difficulties. I'm not here to talk about all the industrial fabric, but, if you want, we could talk about Pescanova — that the Greek Government has been helping Pescanova — we could talk about Fandicosta, the Copo Group or the Ingemarga. All these companies have had the help of the Galician board to develop an industrial plan and therefore to secure jobs. The Galician Union will always be with the industrial fabric, with the workers and thus ensuring the fixing of industrial fabric. Unfortunately, in Marea we do not know what industrial policy has, or unfortunately, if we know it: to close certain companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question by Mr Cesar Manuel Fernández Gil and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the agreement signed between the Council of Galicia and the trade union centres to increase the salary of the teaching staff
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u368	Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u369	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. As we all know, last July there was an agreement between the Education Council and the unions of Workers' Committees and UXT, so that a salary salary of the Greek teachers was agreed, so that the Greek professorship would move to the top of the salary table of teachers in the state as a whole. Far away are those moments from the previous session period, where by some political forces even tried to move the image that from the Government of the Union if he was giving his back to the teachers' demands and fled from the search for an agreement. Once again, it is a question that has been rejected by the facts itself and by reality, because there is, in the end, no better judge to reveal the false arguments than the time itself. I mean, there's a long way from those statements that denied the Board's intention to look for agreements, and today we've already got an agreement on the table. This agreement, which was the culmination of a negotiation process of more than two months, finally allowed the Greek teachers to see their salary increased by a total amount of EUR 1,260 per year; a salary increase that will begin to apply in the coming month of October and will be implemented gradually until 2021. What we would like to know, and that's why we are asking this question today at the plenary session, are the details and appraisal of the Government of Greece about this agreement signed between the Union and the Unions to increase the salary of teachers in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u370	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u371	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, I really appreciate this question. This answer is often used rhetorically, but I think in this case it's quite appropriate. You have also just posed it in your pre-question statement, because at the end of the day, I think what we're going to say here is a little set the thresholds for the credibility of political action by political parties or other parties, or government action or non-government action. In fact, at the last plenary meeting of the last part-session — specifically on 11 June — we also discussed this subject here in this House. At that time the opposition groups said everything, I think it's in the Journal of Sessions and I think it's not worth repeating the bad wishes and even the threats posed at that time. The Government answered wisely, said that if you were negotiating, said that if you were in a moment of reflection and said that possibly, if you got to the good port, there would be an answer in a short time. Today, on the first day of the current session, we can come here with our duties and work done. Because, in fact, a few days after that parliamentary session, a remunerative agreement was signed between the Galician Council and two trade union organizations, in this case the Workers' and UXT Committees, which are making an improvement, a salary increase, for an important collective, for a group of more than 30,000 people, who are the teachers who have the public education system in Galicia. Obviously, our reflection is positive. From October on, that is, from the next month, already this important collective, fundamental to improving Galician educational quality, will receive in its payroll an increase of 1,260 euros a year, once the period of implementation is over. As I have just said, it starts next month, with 15 euros; then, January 1, 2019, we will go to 20 euros; January 1, 2020, 25 euros; and January 1, 2021, we will reach 30 euros, with which we will have the cycle closed. We understand that this is an important agreement. After 2006 it was the first thing that was done. It makes a linear wage increase for all teaching bodies and makes it possible for Welsh teachers to be located in the highest positions within the inter-autonomic ranking. We make a very significant quantitative and qualitative leap. And obviously we also understand that if we improve the agreement reached in 2006, because immediately, and a little after the agreement and signature, teachers will already receive a wage increase in their payrolls. With which, obviously, we're very happy and satisfied, it's an amount of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u372	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later. Replica, Mr. Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u373	Thank you, President. Counsellor, first of all, I would like to thank you for your answer and acknowledge your work, acknowledge the work done by the Council to achieve this agreement, when, as we said earlier, from many political forces even the intention of reaching an agreement was denied. Of course, we're talking about an important deal for the quantitative effort that requires a salary raise to a collective that, as you just pointed out, includes more than 30,000 teachers. I believe that all of us here are able to think that the impact on the public budget of the Autonomous Community of a wage agreement for more than 30,000 teachers is an important impact. And in that sense, we would also like to know the overall amount of this increase and what would be the real impact on the autonomous budget, because I think that, in some ways, it puts value, it fits, the effort made by the Council and by the Government to reach and sign this agreement with Workers' Committees and UXT. Because, in addition, I believe that at the end of this wage agreement is also the result of an effort and a work that has been done over the past few years, which is to focus government action on responsibility, rigor and efficiency in the management of public resources. Because, finally, the management of public resources, an efficient and rational management, is what allows at times when the situation thus allows it, so enables it, to reach agreements to improve the pay conditions of the staff — in this case of the teachers, but of the entire staff of the public service. In that sense, we rejoice that it is an agreement that collects what were the demands of the trade union centres, which was to put the teachers in the upper part of the inter-autonomous pay table. And we also believe that this is a good formula for recognizing the important work done by teachers, which ultimately results in the improvement of the quality of our education system. So we just wanted to know, as I said before, what is the total amount of the new agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u374	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Close this question by the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u375	Yes, honourable Member, the fact is that the individual climb to each teaching professional of EUR 1,260 per year, if we add them to the general account, because it is a very significant amount. Galicia in this sense makes a remarkable effort to, in some way, support the work developed by the teachers. We're talking about EUR 41 million. It may seem to us that the individual rise is not very significant — although it is — but aggregate gives us the idea of the effort that Galicia is going to make, that the Greeks and the Greeks will make with their taxes, to bring more than 41 million euros to the teaching professionals. But the truth is that this agreement was the result of a roadmap that was put at its time by the unions and, in this case, by the Administration of Galician Union. We wanted to reach a wage increase agreement for all teachers and we also wanted to place the wages of the Greek teachers on the highest part of the table at the interautonomic level. The truth is that we were the first autonomous community to address this challenge, to raise wages. We were also the first autonomous community to succeed in making this remunerative agreement with the unions. And the truth is, there was a shared job, there was a negotiation of about two months, with stripes and afrogates, of course, between the trade union organizations and the administration. But, of course, he always preferred a desire for dialogue, for responsibility, for generosity on both sides and also for the height of eyes thinking of a common good. Teachers really are the vault key of the education system. And if in recent years we have had remarkable advances in many variables that set the quality and fairness of an educational system, in large part this is the responsibility of teachers, teachers; ultimately, their effort, their motivation, their desire and their illusion for doing their job well. And, in this sense, rising wages is just one step more or more recognition of the importance that this government gives to teachers. For that, it's also very important that the stability of professionals in their workplaces, in their educational centres. Galicia is the autonomous community with a lower rate of interinence of the state as a whole. And also in recent years we have made a remarkable effort to make a job stabilization, with important public employment offers, important oppositions in recent years. And in addition, teacher training is also very important. And Galicia can show off to have a good continuing teacher training system. About two-thirds of the teachers participate each year in training actions to improve the quality of teaching and to transfer to the student the learning that these teachers themselves do in different training activities. All of this generates a virtuous circle that enables, as I said before, Galicia to achieve good results in quality, equality and, in general, equal opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u376	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Jacobo Moreira Ferro and 11 other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, about the advances and developments that have taken place in recent months in the Grand Montecelo project, in Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u377	Question by Mr Jacobo Moreira of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u378	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Well, as you know, in July 2016, the Health Council and the Pontevedra Council signed a collaborative agreement to enable the extension of the Montecelo Hospital and the provision of the necessary infrastructure and services as well. The next step — which we remember because it was an unprecedented and exemplary step — was the bidding and adjudication of the Space Plan and the Functional Plan. I say it was unpublished and exemplary the elaboration of this Space Plan because it counted on a participatory process, both of professionals and of patients for various channels, and I think it is good to take this process as a reference for future space plans. In the CEO of 9 August last year, the announcement was published of the invitation to tender for the development service of the sectoral project of supramunicipal impact, the preliminary project for the reform and extension of the Montecelo Hospital and the drafting of the basic project and the execution and optional direction of phase I of the construction work of the Gran Montecelo. Well, this contract was fined; in fact, a few months later this same year an act of presentation of the drafting team of this sectoral project was carried out. What we want to know, Counselor, is that news, what progress has been made ever since. And in particular, I also want to take this opportunity to ask you about a news that we know today: that the Pontevedra Town Hall, which signed this agreement, announced that I was going to request or that I was asking the Council to modify the project to include the regulation of private parking lot in the vicinity of the hospital. So we want to know your opinion about these advances and also about this demonstration that has emerged today by the Council of Pontevedra. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u379	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u380	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, the truth is that it is. Pontevedra's health area is being relaunched in recent years, with the extension of the Salnés Hospital and now with this Grand Montecelo, a project that will leave Pontevedra's health at a very high level for the next fifty years. And the truth is it's a model project, because there was an integration of all the collectives, of all the professionals and of Pontevedra's social and political representation into a common project. The Grand Montecelo will be a new wider, more humane public hospital capable of meeting the existential needs — as I said — of the next 50 years. A hospital that will allow us to have more modern, axile health care, close to the user and with the latest technology. Our commitment is to take steps to prove that the Great Montecelo is the final bet, and there is no doubt that we are moving forward. After all the work done by citizens and professionals, who have come very close to this project, we want to go and report on their progress. In fact — the honourable Member said a moment ago — this is a unique model in Spain, where the participation of citizens and professionals allowed them to design the hospital they wanted to have. We then applied this model for the first time to primary care in the study of the Plan of Spaces and Needs, as well as in the Functional Plan in Primary Care in Cangas and Moaña. So Montecelo was that first experience at the national level and, of course, we are going to continue because it seems very important to us. As I reported at the parliamentary headquarters last March, February 16 formalized the contract with the UTE, formed by the studio Chile 15; gAU Architecture and Urbanism, S.L.P.; and JG Engineers, for the development of a sectoral project of supramunicipal impact, the preliminary project for the reform and expansion of Montecelo Hospital, the Gran Montecelo, and the drafting of the basic project and the execution of phase I of the construction work. And following the processing, on May 15, 2018, a first version of the sectoral project, the initial strategic document, and the landscape impact and integration study, was received. On June 7, 2018, the board of directors approved the declaration of supra-municipal interest of the sectoral project for the extension of the hospital. With this agreement, we are taking a step further towards the realisation of this important project, fulfilling the expected deadlines that we expressed at several meetings, as we said, with all the groups. Within the preceptive process, on June 20, 2018, it forwarded to the General Directorate for Environmental Quality and Climate Change the sectoral project of supramunicipal impact for the environmental assessment process, and the General Directorate for Environmental Quality submitted it to public exposure, with a period of forty-five working days — we have to meet a number of deadlines — receiving reports from institutes of studies in the territory, General Directorate for Cultural Heritage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u381	Thank you, Counselor, you have another round later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u382	...Direction General de Estradas, Directorate General de Saúde Pública, Town Hall of Pontevedra and Directorate General de Pesca, Acuiculture e Innovación Tecnologica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u383	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. Thank you. Replica, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u384	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor. I would therefore like to congratulate you on continuing to lead a public health from which all the Greeks are proud. It's a health care including 40.7 % of the Galician board budget. [[Murmurs.]] It's true that there have never been so many professionals in public health, so many hospitals have never been built, so many health centers have never been built... And the truth is, Counselor, it's hard to say or hear that some political parties speak, with the health we have, of cuts; it's something incomprehensible. These same parties that alarmed the Greeks precisely by announcing that they were going to have to go with the bank card, the Visa card, every time they went to the E.R., or that they would have to pay for the doctor's appointment, or that they would have to pay for sleeping in the hospital. [[Laughter]] Well, I think in the face of the facts, public health users are seeing that they were all lies of the opposition. [[Murmurs.]] I think we have to take a chest and be proud of public health, as are some political leaders of parties represented here, but who are in other chambers. I think that's the example we have to follow. The view of the Greeks is that we have very good public health, and the health barometer, which today the President of the Galician Union said, is a clear example of the level of satisfaction of the Greek citizenship. Therefore, we, as far as the hospital of Pontevedra, Counsellor, are finding with satisfaction that the commitment of the Council of Galicia continues to take its steps, continues to move forward. Therefore, our congratulations. The only thing we have left to know is what steps are taking in particular in writing, as is being done in writing, which procedures in particular are being carried out. And we are going to follow the progress made from this parliamentary group. And we're also convinced that the Pontevedra Town Hall will collaborate on this project without putting any kind of obstacle to the commitments made with the signing of that agreement. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u385	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Close this question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u386	Yes, sorry for the former, Mr President, but I was giving the preliminary reports received by the Directorate-General for Environmental Quality, which made a resolution which was received in Sergas on 31 August to, as I say, follow the steps. And now we start the development of the environmental and strategic study with all the preceptive reports, adding what is needed. We can say that we're meeting the marked program that leads us to achieve the goal of being able to bid the work next year. The Grand Montecelo Hospital project was born with a high degree of consensus between our professionals, neighborhood associations and other administrations, and of course I have to acknowledge to the Council of Pontevedra its collaboration. We have some difference, but these are the logical differences of such a wide project. We had the last meeting with the Council of Pontevedra, the company and the Council's own professionals in August. I know that the opposition is sometimes critical of the Council of Health working in August, making bills in August, but we have to work in August precisely to shorten the deadlines, which are guaranteed. But, of course, what we want to do is a future project. There are a number of differences, and one of them is precisely what they call the Pontevedra Town Hall as "readpark", because clearly the Board, the General Secretariat of Urbanism believes that it must be done within a special plan of staffing. However, we have made the consultation to try to collaborate and do so from the sectoral plan without delay, in the times we already have. I mean, of course, we wouldn't accept a new exhibition of forty-five working days because we'd be very late for the whole process. But — as the General Secretariat of Urbanism said — gave the solution to the Council of Pontevedra, which was to make a special allocation plan for this purpose. With which, we're still working together. And we're going to continue with participatory methodology, because now what we're doing is reviewing with all the professionals in the hospital, with more than sixty-five meetings -- we're actually done with these meetings on September 17th -- to continue the expropriation process and get the basic and execution project. The basic project of phase I is already being reviewed by technicians, and we will soon also finish the project of execution. There would be no expropriation there, because without expropriation we cannot bid the work. So we will continue with great interest this great project that will greatly improve, of course, Pontevedra's health. And, as you said, we're also going to show that, of course, the most health-care investments are in the Council of Galicia, chairing President Feijóo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u387	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and Mr. Noela Blanco Rodríguez of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the criteria used by the Government of Galicia to determine the volume of staff existing on Saturday, 4 August at the CAP of the Road
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u388	Question by Mr. Julio Torrado of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u389	Thank you, President. After this two-voice monologue, we're going to try to talk about the health reality of this country, which is something that seems quite essential. This question, Counsellor, has seen two major failures. You probably have the record of failing two of the powers of a democratic system in the same question. The first, the legislative: you represent the failure of this parliament. That after the circus we saw here with some questions about appearances, commissions, etc., you refuse to come in to explain that situation is regrettable. According to failure: that from a mismanagement — warned around the world less by the Council — if a fatal consequence, a horrible result, is probably a big failure of a government, which is the executive power. [[Applause]] You're facing two serious system failures right now. Because this is the first time you're going to talk about it, Counselor, and because there's a question in this plenary, not because you wanted it. It wasn't an absolutely unpredictable accident. The zero risk doesn't exist, but it's not absolutely unpredictable; the CAP professionals have warned. Do you know what you did when the CAP professionals wanted to warn them and meet you? They took us out of the meeting. Do you know that you have done your party — from that you are a member, and you represent it in the Government — when it is said literally in this parliament: the CAPs in this country are being left without professionals because they have only one team to cover a lot of population extensions and, if they have to go to an emergency, are the CAPs empty? You know what they did? First, say, you're alarming, and second, voting against the increase in staff. Counselor, you'd rather get away with it than solve it, because you must certainly consider an achievement for more than a month in giving some explanation. Certainly. Because you just said in the previous question — if it was a real question — that we have to work in August. And where were you in August when this happened? If you have to work in August, where was he? You can answer me, if you want, then, or you can't answer me. Counselor, reality is serious. You'll say this is all a tool, an alarm, as many times. But I ask you one question: can you guarantee that this last month, on the weekend, there was no CAP in the same situation as the road's situation on the fatal 4th of August? I don't think he can, because there were them. Can you guarantee that I never had that problem with the Road CAP of having a single team, as President Feijóo said? You can't. Doctors are needed in the system, Counsellor. I think the best thing you can do is leave the Council and go back to the system. We'll win a good doctor, but we won't miss a good counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u390	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u391	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I wanted to congratulate José Manuel's family on the part of all the Sergas professionals, as the head of the team who attended him that day on the Road, and also the management team of Santiago's health area this week. The continuing attention points were created by Decree No. 172/1995 of 18 May, and the Outpatient Emergency Plan of the Autonomous Community of Galicia is hereby approved to provide urgent health care in the field of primary care. The adoption of this decree led to a remarkable advance in the attention of the emergencies in Galicia. The Galician Health Service has ninety continuous care points distributed throughout the autonomous community, which in 2017 made more than one and a half million assistances, of which 90 percent were resolved in the CAP without need of derivation. In 2009, when he began to rule the current Union, there were four hundred and fifty-seven doctors in the CAP. In 2018, this same year, we have forty-nine doctors, ninety-two doctors more than there were in 2009, besides all those doctors who voluntarily guard the CAP. Article 5 of the above-mentioned decree is precisely where the staff to which the CAP must count are established. For years now, the CAP has been constantly analysing workloads to strengthen and reorganize force. Assistance at the continuing care points is covered by professional health personnel of family medicine, nursing and non-health professionals, such as PSX, on continuous hours from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. the following morning on working days and from 20 a.m. to 4 p.m. on holidays and Sundays. In fact, there may be difficulties in time to cover emergencies, both in the CAP and in the rest of health centres, but these are priority points, and of course we always try to cover them. This difficulty already appeared in the Bipartite document, with the Socialist Party's advisor, who was called "Proposals for the transformation of primary care in Galicia" — also known as the Better Plan — which signed Mr. Pablo Vaamonde and Mr. Manuel Martín, and which, as a solution to this problem, suggested an in-depth reform of the CAP that produces a reduction in the current number of points. Faced with this simplistic solution, the current Council of Galicia launched several measures, such as the increase in the number of MIR squares in primary care — of ninety squares that were in 2015-2016, at this time we offer one hundred five — or the twenty pediatric squares used each year, which we want to go up to twenty-six...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u392	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. He's got another round later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u393	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u394	Thank you, Mr. President. It's the first time you could talk about this, Counselor, and you told me about the Bipartite, the Minister, Mr Vaamonde, of the year 2009... and you didn't mention the Road CAP in a single moment. [[Applause]] Counsellor, do you know what happened at the Road Market? Because more than a month ago. Just give me an answer, the first possibility you have... well, not the first possibility, the first obligation you have. I could have had it before, but he didn't want it. And he didn't mention the Road CAP. You see, Counselor, I am convinced of what you are going to do now: it will give data to those who cannot be answered by the format of the parliamentary question. Because you want to get out of the parliamentary question alive. I know it's a miracle for you, but someone died. [[Murmurs.]] It's not about getting out alive from a parliamentary question, it's about giving an explanation, and it's about getting closer to what's possible solution. [[Murmurs.]] And if they don't mind, I'll keep talking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u395	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u396	Counsellor, this is no time to discuss whether this is a parliamentary rhetoric, whether you're fighting for it better or worse. Why did we have one team at the Road CAP? Why wasn't it the first time? Why isn't there... Of course I already told it, but they didn't answer me. [[Murmurs.]] Why does it happen in more CAP? Why is it still happening? Why can we have the same situation again that has happened sadly, because the same circumstances continue to arise? What has the Council done until now? Answer some of those things. I know you consider it a triumph to blame Pedro Sanchez, but we're not talking about this, Counselor. There is a serious problem with the CAP staff — in general health care, but also with the CAP — which affects very serious issues. Is there any plan to solve it? And what happened on August 4 on the Road?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u397	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Close this question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u398	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Road Continued Care Point attended during 2017 a total of 12,561 patients, which means an average of around thirty-four daily patients, with a resolutional capacity of around ninety percent, and with an average of 1.5 outputs a day, i.e. three outputs every two days. In the Road CAP, over the past eight years, about 100,000 patients were treated, cared for, and there was no death within the centre itself. We're talking about the last eight years we've registered. The Road CAP has a health team established with a medical professional, a nurse and a PSX and more, stable for years, a second doctor on Saturday afternoons and Sundays and holidays until ten at night. Summer planning was carried out taking into account the holidays in June, and the Road CAP had the usual professionals: two doctors on Saturday afternoons and Sunday mornings and afternoons. By the 4th and 5th of August, the same professional coincided, which Saturday did not appear. So, as soon as they warn of the CAP that this person does not appear, if he tries to hire another person by calling the whole list of people who are annotated to make the guards, without the possibility that that day could come to no other fellow. But if he's already hired for the next day, on Sunday, he was the same person who wouldn't be able to come. It was impossible to count on a second professional for Saturday. The calls from the entire Santiago Power team confirm this. It wasn't a cut-off theme, if I didn't want to give any particular assistance, but there was no possibility. The fact that brings us here is that in the Road CAP a patient was introduced at 19.05. Some MP lied this morning saying he'd been waiting an hour. He arrived at 19.05. At that time, the health team was performing an emergency care outside the center, required from the 061, which by law is the one that has to designate which troops go to each site, because they understand that they prioritize. Since the CAP, 061 of the patient's arrival is notified and an ambulance is requested. Ten minutes later, since the CAP, it's again connected to 061 because the patient gets worse; from there, they report that the nearest resource is the CAP team, which is returning from Santiago. At that point, since central 061, PSX is told to initiate cardiac recovery maneuvers when it is warned of the worsening situation, giving the indication. A medical ambulance has also been mobilized since the year 061, which is not enough because the medical team of this CAP arrives long before it arrives. And there the resuscitation maneuvers are performed for fifteen minutes, without being unfortunately possible to resuscitrate this patient. The emergency care and emergency care system on which you intend to generate doubts, coordinated by 061, along with the emergency services of hospitals and primary care, is the same as it has been shown to have its ability in disasters...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u399	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u400	...like the Marshal, like we stop or like many others. And, of course, we're still working to improve not only equipment supplies, CAP buildings and health centres, but also to improve staff conditions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u401	Thank you. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u402	And we have meetings with them to keep doing this during this month of September.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u403	Thank you. Thanks, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u404	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u405	Thank you. Question by Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the demands of Sergas workers caused by the decision of the Government of Galicia to transfer the health emergency coordination services of Galicia to the building of the Integral Emergency Care Centre, on the Road
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u406	You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u407	Good afternoon, Mr. Almuinha. I'm sorry that a month after the passing of a person on the Road you haven't had time to congratulate the family yet. Today we want to ask you, precisely, about the situation of the 061. The Galician Union has decided to transfer the coordination services of 061, currently located in Compostela, to the integrated emergency building of the Road. The date communicated for this transfer is early October. This transfer means a substantial change in the working conditions of the professionals: change in costs for displacement; change in increasing time to get to work, which in practice means an increase in working hours; change in the conditions of family reconciliation... that transfer affects around one hundred ninety professionals: the staff member and staff member of the Northern Group, to whom part of the service is externalized. Professionals claim compensation in view of this relocation of their job, this forced transfer that substantially affects their working and living conditions. Supposed to lose money and time, difficulties and reconciliation; some professionals assumed fifteen percent of their salary. They're offering them about one hundred and forty euros for twelve months, when the expenses of going and coming to the Road are around one hundred and fifty euros in one month. In the face of this transfer and the impact of work, the workers transferred their demands to him in May 2017. It wasn't until January 2018 when they got the first contact with Sergas. The next meeting couldn't be held until June 2018. Then they closed for vacations, and it was not until September that they had the next meeting, where they presented the same compensation offer and transfer conditions they had presented in July, without completely changing any of the conditions. Sorry, Counselor. A proposal which was rejected by the workers and workers by regarding it as insufficient and unsatisfactory in June. The workers of 061, both statutaries and the North Group, have been on strike since August 2018. They've been on strike for a month because of this disagreement. We are faced with an essential service as is the coordination of Galician health emergencies. It is necessary for the Union, the Sergas, the 061 and the North Group to abandon this position of immobilism, persecution and to move on to a situation of agreement and dialogue, because we are talking — I insist — about extra-hospital emergencies. Counsellor, will you meet the demands of staff of the 061 and the North Group?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u408	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Thank you. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u409	Mrs. Prado, the condolences to the family -- as I said earlier, I don't know if you were listening -- was given by the professional and the team that attended the patient, and also by the management team to make it available. The difference between you, without a picture, just in the intimacy that corresponds to each of these situations. Look: centralization of all emergency related services in the Integrated Road Emergency Care Centre will make us have a service that wins security, efficiency and efficiency. In the same building they will operate together and coordinated, in addition to the central units of 061 and 112, those representing the state's security forces and bodies, the Autonomic Police, firefighters, the Maritime Rescue and the Rural Environment, ensuring effective, rapid and coordinated responses to any situation that may happen in our community. In addition, the Public Health Emergency Foundation of Galicia-061 will unify its facilities in a single building, because right now we have two buildings: one on the Welsh Radio-Television and one on Conxo. The Health Council and the Galego Health Service at all times showed concern and sensitivity to the demands of workers, both labour and statutory, belonging to the Public Health Emergency Foundation, related to the change of Santiago's work center to the Integral Center for Emergency Care, located on the Road. This concern is demonstrated by continuous meetings between the representatives of the workers and the representatives of the Health Council, attending all the meetings from the manager of the Galician Service, the Deputy Director of Labour Relations, and having up to five meetings: in January, in June two, one July and another in September, and about surely another in progress. I think it has to be made clear that the change of Santiago de Compostela's work centre to the Road is not considered within the statute as a substantial change in working conditions, because it belongs to the same health area. In spite of this, this administration showed its willingness to negotiate, with economic compensation, as you well said, of one hundred and forty gross euros, which comes from a previous award, which resulted from the workers' claim of 112. The choice for non-sanitary workers to enjoy the holidays corresponding to the Town Hall of Santiago or, if so, the Road. Adjudicating an additional score to the staff affected by the change in the work centre, destined for the geographic scope of the Santiago health area. The possibility of long-term call for any staff found at the time of change of work centre linked to a long duration of the Foundation. For health personnel, the call will be for the health area of Santiago and for all the work centres of the foundation itself. For non-sanitary staff it will be a single call to the health area of Santiago. This point is a change to the temporary selection pact, and it must be logically approved by the sectoral table...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u410	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u411	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another round later. Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u412	Your Honor, in the rostrum there is a representation of the workers of the 061 and the North Group. And among them there are professionals who helped mount 061, who are at the focal point from the beginning, when there was almost nothing. Workers and workers who gave it all to get ahead and go building an essential service practically out of nothing, and workers and workers who do not understand after that situation the treatment they are having. Workers and workers with the highest professionalism and experience, and they don't understand that they're working on conditions with a limited staff framework, and that's why the minimum services decreed for strike are 100 percent of the usual presences. That's what I'm telling you. And after years of that delivery, you're acting with them as the worst bosses, as they usually do with Sergas' entire staff. Sergas, 061 and the North Group have to rectify, Mr. Almuña; they have to change immobilism, taxation, persecution by dialogue and agreement, because the professionals of the 061 coordination centre deserve different treatment. They're not responding to the demands they're being moved to, because they were transferred in greater than 2017, 16 months ago, and at that time they didn't move from their positions. And they're not asking for any Asian luxury, they're demanding that they be compensated for the transfer of their job, that they're compensated for moving more than thirty kilometers, that they're compensated for increasing their work hours, that they're compensated for the substantial change in their working conditions, that they're affected by the change in the reconciliation of their working and family life. You are installed non-immobilism, and today I ask you here in their name to change that immobilism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u413	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. It's over, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u414	Thank you. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u415	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to tell Mrs Prado that we also believe in the law. The minimum services were brought to trial, and the trial gave us reason, because, of course, we're talking about an essential, very important service. Of course, we greatly value the workers of the 061. As we said earlier, these are doing a fundamental work every day, not only in coordination of health care in Galicia but also in information and a response to society. There are three types of collectives here: collectives of a company, statutory workers, and also employees of a job. In fact, with the staff, we've already reached agreements. And the main points raised in that agreement are that the employees who provide services in the Foundation and are affected by the change in the workplace will have the right to receive economic compensation, which, as I say, is not a Sergas whim, but comes from an earlier arbitral award. Staff affected by the change of work centre that provides services to the Foundation will also have the right to enjoy two local festivals each year, with the choice of the worker, either in a municipality or in another municipality. And on a proposal from the Health Administration, the staff of the Foundation 061 are included in the scope of the ordinary professional career of the Galego Health Service, and the entities assigned to the Health Council to the said body, according to the basis adopted at the sectoral table of July 6. And point 4, which, according to the purpose of achieving greater reconciliation of family and personal life, extends to the application of the Foundation's employment rights and application vacations to the Foundation's statutory staff. So we're reaching agreements. We are not closed for anything, we have pending meetings and we will continue to work, because, as I say, proposals on the table are there, and I think they are important proposals. As I said — and I repeat — one is economic compensation, which is theoretically the same health area by the statute there was no justification, because if you understand that there is no change in working conditions, but we understand that it is fair that, if other workers have that compensation, these people also have it, and seem reasonable to us; that choice for non-health workers of the enjoyment of these holiday days, either in a municipality or in another, as they are available; or that additional adjustment of score to staff affected by the change of workplace to geographic scope; also that increase of incorporation time to localized guards, which passes from one hour to the moment — so that they can reach without any difficulty; the authorization of attendance at meetings of coordinators by videoconference; making available to the workers a room of facilities; also the commitment to value the next award of coffee special prices for that staff; and, of course, the commitment of the professional itinerary that could improve the other type of work that could be used in case...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u416	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u417	Thank you. Mr. Paula Vázquez Verao, G.P. of In Marea, on the implementation by the Board of Auditors of the recommendations on residential care to senior and dependent persons
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u418	You have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u419	Good afternoon, Counselor. Today from En Marea we want to ask you about the achievements of the Board of Auditors in the area of senior residences, not only for their successes as an advisor to Social Policy, but also for the future former Counsellor Mato in the area of senior residences, because of that report of the Board of Auditors, because first of all they leave both the legacy of reducing the percentage of senior residences directly managed in the total. That's a first record. But they also have the record of having cut down -- and this is extremely serious -- in direct care staff in larger centers, even having increased the number of people being cared for. It seems to us that this is one of the main conclusions of the report of the Board of Auditors and that it deserves to be rejected by this Parliament. Why? Because they have severely deteriorated — and they know — the working conditions of the staff, first of all, by not systematically replacing vacations, not systematically replacing short-terms, and also maintaining suspension of Article 19 of the V Collective Convention, which seriously cuts staff breaks. What situation have they caused? An overwork and an obvious decrease in the quality of the service. It says the Board of Auditors that from 2010 to 2012 the cut was 13 million euros, and that still in 2015 -- and this is their responsibility -- staff spending is 7.1% less than in 2010. But this is one of the causes that you — the two future candidates advisors, I understand that they are already candidates — have the dubious record of being counsellor with the highest percentage of work accidents across the board of Galicia, and one-hundred percent of them are due to over-frozenness. This was one of the successes we wanted to talk about. And one of the successes is that bet on privatization. We have examined it on numerous occasions here by En Marea, and the Board of Auditors ratifies it. The percentage of private squares over the total, the percentage of squares in larger residences, is the largest in the whole state. This is another one of the records of the Galician Union. And it's just that the most elected management modality in recent years has been the concert, and these are places where the Union pays about eight percent more than it had managed directly. For example, let's go to another of the successes, to another of those records of counsellors Mato and King Varela. And it is that, in addition to the poor working situation in public residences, there is also evidence of deterioration and lack of maintenance. He says the Board of Auditors that since 2010 he has not developed investment plans in public centers. This is obvious, because in a very small walk through different residences, because they have the legacy of closing those plants of Caranza's residence, which were inaugurated in 2016, for months being finished, and the legacy of maintaining unsustainable situations in the residence of Campolongo, in the residence of Oleiros, in conditions that are not suitable for the heights we are in. The Board of Auditors itself...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u420	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u421	They're so many successes that it's impossible!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u422	Thank you. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u423	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Vázquez Verao, ladies and gentlemen. Actually, I agree with you that the biggest assets are one of the most important assets Galicia has. An important asset for two reasons: because one in four Greeks and Greeks is over sixty-five years old and because, in addition, thanks to them, we have a welfare system that has been achieved over the years, thanks to their effort and dedication. That's why this government, like any responsible government, at a time of economic growth like what we are experiencing now, has its commitment to improving policies for our elders. That's why we're working to improve those policies. And that's why I have no doubt that we have very much in mind — as it cannot be otherwise — the recommendations of the Board of Auditors, and we've also been working on this line for some time, in the following features that I'd like to summarize here today. It seems that this summary you make is provoked by the famous cuts; the famous cuts that are constantly found in the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. For as far as the largest area of the Galician Union is concerned, I must tell you that 50 percent more is being invested at this time than was being invested in the largest area of Galician Union in 2009. Therefore, we are investing the largest economic amount that has been invested in recent years, to improve precisely all our public policies for our greatest. We are also very aware — and that is why we are working — that we are not reaching the end and that we have to keep working, which is the ambition of this government. But let me also give you some other data on the progress we're making. First of all, because also the second thing that is told to this government is that it's a privatising government. First, there are the cuts and then there are the privatizations. Look, there's a statistics from the Ministry of Health and Social Services, which is going to do this reading of professional services in non-professional services by different autonomous communities. Galicia is currently on a 19.85% non-professional service ratio. But I will begin by saying — which goes by alphabetical order — how are the ratios of other autonomous communities: Andalusia, by A, the twenty-seven percent; Aragon, the forty percent; Asturias, the thirty percent; Balearic Islands, the fifty percent; Canary Islands, the forty percent; Cantabria, the forty-seven percent. So, I think we're moving not only into attention, but through professional services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u424	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another round later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u425	And that's why we get a payout ratio right now of 85% of our biggest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u426	Thank you. Replica, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u427	Of course, there's a demographic challenge; that's never denied and we're not saying it's exactly 100 percent reversible. But with that demographic challenge, Joina isn't responding to the large volume of needs. Because we've been talking about that waiting list over the last few years if it kept for residences between five hundred and two thousand people, and it wasn't you, the two advisors, who will be future ex-counsellers soon -- understanding — of reducing it from that rate and not reducing the tremendous waiting list. What do you have to say about that waiting list among all the procedures, from the initial procedure to the entry into a residence, one year and eight months on average, what do you have to say? Besides, it's not just a matter of cuts. Snippets are specifically in the personal pane. And that can't deny it, and the consequences are obvious. It's not just a matter of cuts, it's a matter of modeling. It's a model that clearly bets on privatization. And there we also have this new Autonomy Bond in Residence, which, by the way, is just to copy exactly that existing benefit, which is the supply for the acquisition of residential service, which is also insufficient given what a private square in this country costs. It's a model question. A model that favors that in areas like Ourense or Lugo leave room for the San Rosendo Foundation, in Ourense, or for the Golden Age Peace Messengers Foundation, in Lugo. If we want a model of public residences, we have to start realising. If you say you take those recommendations from the Board of Auditors, let's do it. Because that famous plan of residences in the seven cities that announced that it was going to have forty-seven million euros in 2018, I only see budgeted seven hundred thousand euros and I don't see anything started, we don't see anything started. So would you be able to determine whether that report of the Board of Auditors will also be taken into account in the famous residences of the seven major cities? You could also specify whether you're going to assume everything that has to do with improving transparency and sanctioning those entities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u428	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u429	...donors of services that don't meet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u430	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u431	...and that they have serious irregularities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u432	Thank you. Close the question, Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u433	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Vázquez Verao, I told you that we are working and that we have a way to go. But since the Social Policy Council was created, waiting lists -- I mean, I can't deny waiting lists -- have been reduced by 60 percent. I think that's quite a remarkable fact. And because there's work to be done, at the last August Council, we approved a double measure, precisely to bridge that situation where many people are waiting for two very important services: for the home aid service, because many people want to stay at home, and for the residential service. In the home help service we increased 1.5 million hours in the municipalities so that there is no waiting list in home help. And, in fact, for the Home Autonomy Bonus we're allocating the necessary public resources so that all the people who are waiting for a public square right now can have at least this help, while they can still wait for the public square. So a very important reduction that we're going to have from here to the end of the year in those two very demanding services by the people. But as for the residential offer, we'll continue to work on the residential offer. Look: in July we opened a new residence in Foz, but before the end of this year we're opening the residence of greater than Vilardevós, the residence of older than Artexo, the residence of older than Baleira, the residence of older than Paradela, the residence of older than Redondola, the residence of older than Foz... Well, I think this government is opening up a lot of older residences, following precisely those recommendations and that evidence that our older ones are increasing, and that there is also a model change that requires us to increase the number of public squares. As for the plan As at home and the seven residences in the seven big cities, the president answered this morning about the particular one. We're finishing the availability of land and projects, and in the coming weeks we'll have both things ready. Look, next Monday, I'll sign an agreement with one of the German mayors just to make this happen, and I hope to be able to sign with more mayors. It's just a mayor of your group, but I don't mean it, because it's the least, because, really, we have to be able to agree on these things. As for the inspectoral activity, what I can tell you is that the Inspectorate works regularly and independently, how should any body inspector of the Galician Union work; that today we have 50 percent more inspectors than in 2014; that we have a plan of action of the inspection that is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u434	Thank you. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u435	...of then, sanctioning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u436	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u437	...all those non-compliances of the entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u438	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Paula Vázquez Verao, G.P. of En Marea, on the failure to comply with the collaboration agreement of the adjudicatory company of the management of the Centro de Menores Monteledo, in Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u439	You have the word Mrs. Paula Vázquez Verao of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u440	Well, now I'm going to try to center the tone and try to get my entire intervention to disagree by a slightly more affable tone. Because we're talking about some of the most sensitive issues in social policy, and it's anyone that has to do with minors. It is in particular the necessary service of re-education and social reintegration of children who commit infringements. And it is an obligation of the Galician Union — it is an obligation that it has been entrusted — to ensure that in case they have to comply with judicial measures deprived of liberty with the objective — and I highlight this — of "resocialization", because the Union has specific centres with the proper quality of education. One of these centers is Monteledo, who, managed by the Diagram Foundation, saw precisely this educational quality deteriorated and, consequently, the possibilities of giving that exit of resocialization. Look: works without a picture, with a level of educators per turn equal to or even below what they have when they decree minimum services in the case of strike, which is eight, because sometimes they work with seven or even less, and last year even worse; they don't cover vacations in any professional category; they increased shifts at night and reduced rest times. And so you can't work with quality. This allows Junta despite the fact that in the granting of that service at the request of the contract it indicated — and I quote textually — "that the coverage of the corresponding functions should be covered at all times." At all times, it indicates that the absences of staff must be covered, either by vacation or by work disabilities, and it is not done. And Junta doesn't take responsibility. Despite the fact that Junta itself has the same interpretation about this sentence — which we see — that the staff of the Monteledo Reeducation Center itself, because it was expressed in this way at a meeting in 2016: that all staff must be replaced in full. But finally, in 2018 the Diagram Foundation will persist with this policy, regardless of the level of occupation. Because there was an agreement that if the level of occupation was only twenty-five, as long as the ratios were met, it would not have to be replaced at all times. But the question is that no vacations are replaced in any professional category and that the methodology has been changed and the activities of minors are subdivided into groups, and the work has been complicated. And it seems like a fraud to us because this foundation, which received in the first agreement for those two years 2016 and 2017 four million euros, more or less, is now extended by 2.4 million, because it has won the concession, among other things, by including two educators more than thirty-two that demanded the summons. I mean, he had a few extra points to include them. But now in practice, by not replacing vacations — calculating the total hours that are not covered by vacations — there are almost six educators less than I had to count on the staff. And I don't have much time left, but it will agree that the consequences of personal cutting the children suffer, because these staff cannot develop their educational work. And many times that educational work in the case...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u441	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u442	...of educators...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u443	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u444	...to get rid of a containment job.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u445	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u446	And this is not the purpose of juvenile centers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u447	Thank you. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u448	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Vázquez Verao, all we are present in this chamber agree that the well-being and protection of children, children and adolescents is a priority. And if it is a priority in general, it is also a priority for those minors who comply — as in this case, certainly delicate cases — judicial measures by the commission of criminal offences. And, of course, if this government does not spare economic resources, the resources of all the Greeks, in no child or child, neither do we spare them with these boys. And I can tell you that we are increasing these resources in a very remarkable way, together with the resources of the Social Policy Council. Look: we could not allocate more economic resources to the field of children if the budgets of the Autonomous Community were not growing as they are growing. And, in particular, the budgetary increase for childcare centres in the Autonomous Community in this exercise rose by 13 percent to reach EUR thirty-two million. So you'll see that our commitment to these centers is complete. Because you see what increases the budget of the Galician Council, you see what increases the Council of Social Policy, and you will see how even more economic resources are increased for childcare centres. The Monteledo Minor Center has a total of thirty-four educators working in that center. This staff — as you have said — is determined by the demands of the contract that we held with the Diagram Foundation: thirty-two educators who were initially established two more educators who were offered by that foundation to do with this contract, which was previously personal that replaced, and — I think this data is very important — to give them a stability character became permanently contracted. I can admit that more personal is always better, but you should contrast 2018 staff with 2016 staff, because you're also talking to me about what happened earlier in this center. Previously, there were twenty-six people working. So in two years, we've increased about thirty percent of the staff, and we've met all the established staff ratios. Because, look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u449	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. He's got another round later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u450	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u451	Thank you. Replica, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u452	Yes, but he didn't answer me if the holidays were covered, because we're not only talking about ratios, but about covering vacations at all times the staff. Not only for educators, but for educators when they are on a shift under the minimum services, it will be necessary that this does not guarantee proper attention, but also, for example, I ask them: social worker; according to the demand for conditions, as 1.5 social worker. What if you don't cover the social worker's vacations that's full-time? So it happens, for example -- to see if this is the well-being of minors -- that they may spend days without allowing a communication with their families, or, for example, with their girl a pre-adolescent or teenage. How do you then fit this into a reintegration project? How can staff then, in addition to these sometimes saturated shifts, do that reintegration work? That's what we're talking about. Because we're talking about whether strict compliance with the terms of the contract is required: at all times the staff rests, whether there are holidays covered. It's just a very specific question. We don't talk about ratios, which, of course, must be fulfilled. Because you can talk, because here we have two representatives of the workers on the company committee, and you can ask them what their working conditions are and whether they can guarantee an effective educational intervention. Because sometimes, as I said, that work has to be limited to a function of restraint, and we are talking about the necessary socialization. And when it's not allowed, when you don't have time, for example, to make work planning or tracking reports or ratings, and when you're limited to containment, we're not only talking about the violation of the individual rights of these minors, that supreme asset of the minor that is collected throughout the legislation, but also of a social problem. Why are we betting, by a model of social reintegration or by a repressive model? It's more: are we betting because there's a big business niche in these repressive systems? There are other societies in which this is already being given, and they're not safer. For example, I could see what's going on with prisons in the United States.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u453	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u454	I'll ask you if you don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u455	Thank you. [[Mr Vázquez Verao speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Time's up. The question has already been asked before. Thank you. This question is closed by the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u456	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Vázquez Verao, ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Galicia, through its inspection services and through its legal and economic services, must ensure at all times compliance with the rules. [[Murmurs.]] We have a staff regulation that is established by Decree 329/2005. In point 2.2 of this decree it is established that in semi-open or closed units the minimum ratio will be an educator for every five minors. You ask me about vacations. But, if you like, we also talk about occupation. Can we talk about the occupation? Look, there are thirty-seven available squares, and that's why there are thirty-four educators in that center. In 2017, fortunately, only eleven juvenile squares were needed in the month of thirty-seven available. So you'll realize it's not the same thing as thirty-four people work with eleven who work with thirty-seven. In 2018, too, fortunately, because we, as government, want to have the lowest number of juvenile offenders in our centers, we have eighteen smaller ones in our centers, for which we have one attention that I told you earlier that it has increased. And we're working on a second line, on a second line as you know to have a greater occupation for different features, because we believe that centers have to be fully optimized. We'll keep working over the next few months, taking note of what he's telling us. And I think that by the end of the year we will be able to re- pose an increase like what was done in 2016, knowing that these are the resources of all the Greeks and all the Greeks and that this has to be associated with an improvement also of the service itself and of the attention being done in the service itself. But I think that both by economic investment in the Government of Galicia and by the number of staff working in the centre in recent years, we have an accurate support to continue working in that direction and to ensure that our centres have the best attention and that our staff has the best working conditions right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-12-DSPG081.u457	Thank you, Counselor. There's no more business to deal with, you get the session up.
