ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. Today, which is the last full of this year, I want to invite your lordships and the guests who today accompany us to keep a minute of silence in memory of the victims of gender-based violence registered throughout 2018, while we vote to permanently eradicate this scourge. I hope in 2019 we don't have to save another minute of silence. [[The ladies and gentlemen, as well as all the participants in the session, stand up and hold a minute's silence.]] Thank you. We are on the agenda at the fifth item, which corresponds to oral questions for the President of the Union's answer. First I want to greet the students of the middle and upper cycle of Business Administration of the Instituto Campo de San Alberto, in Noia. Welcome to Parliament, as well as to your teachers. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the possibility of hiding the state of public health through the information issued to CRTVG
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u2	Question by Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u3	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Feijóo, today I am going to borrow the words, the complaints and the diagnosis of many people who are working in defense of public health. And I beg you to pay attention, because we're talking about a very important matter. Chiefs and Chiefs of Primary Care Service: "We don't want to be complicit in this deterioration and that's why we are resigning. One of the main problems is the care burden we bear because we don't cover our casualties and the pressure is terrifying. When we get here in the morning, we don't know if we'll have to attend to 20 or 40 people. Dedicating 10 minutes to each is a dream that is almost never fulfilled. Conclusion: We are risking the lives of our patients. A population that has no good attention will be a sick population. Since 2012 we have been warning the Union of the consequences of cutting policy, without any progress, without any response. So far, we've been organizing health deficiencies, but we can't organize misery. Years of cuts made this situation predictable, but we found no political intention to give a solution. It's a lie that there are no doctors, every time there are public offers, more candidates and candidates are presented than squares." Listen to Eduardo Díaz, a doctor and a member of the CAP on the ground of war: "It is extremely common for CAPs to be without healthcare personnel. Sometimes we have to leave our CAP without health care personnel to go to an emergency in another CAP because a unconscious patient has fallen into the waiting room, as happened to the road tragic case. Is this common? Yes. Did we detect a proposal, apart from the patches, to find solutions? The answer is, no. There are things that are irrefutable. I had to take care of 127 patients in a guard and it was a normal summer day. There's another irrefutable thing: a person can't die in a health center because of lack of health care." Emergency personnel and CHUS users: "The degree of emergency deterioration reaches alarming limits, the lack of beds is resolved by placing patients in the corridors or waiting for hours to be served." "We are suffering from an unsustainable situation for both ill-stated material and staff deficit, which prevents us from doing our work efficiently, safely and with quality. Every day we give more than we can to look after our patients." Children and girls of the Age and Aldán: "We have to spend hours in displacements and in the waiting rooms of the health centers to attend to the pediatrician. They make us lose school hours and complete our lives." Mr. Fexóo, do you think these voices can be covered with information manipulation? And, above all, will you rectify your policy of cuts and privatizations that have made it a danger to the health of the Greeks and the Greeks? And that's not what I'm telling you, it's a social cry and it's a professional cry. Answer it for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The first thing I want is to recognize the work of the professionals of public health in Galicia; and of course, and in a very special way, of the professionals of primary care. Therefore, in my political, professional and administrative life, I have always dedicated myself to valuing public health and therefore I do not share the BNG's way of stressing the health or the BNG's way of disqualifying the health or the BNG's way of politicizing public health. From the absolute point of view of the professionals, without any doubt, the Government feels proud of them, and for this reason the Government proclaims — without any false modesty — that we are in the presence of a health service, the Galician Health Service, of the best health services in Europe. Your Honor, we are dedicated to working, improving and expanding health services, health personnel, health centres, and the abilities of the optionals and services to patients. I'm going to give you three examples, on infrastructure, on new tools to reduce the bureaucratic work of professionals, and also on professionals. You know, Mrs. Pontón, that today more primary care doctors work in Galicia than you did when you were in the government. You know that today there are fewer patients per doctor in Galicia than you were when you were in government. And you also know that today in Galicia there are fewer patients per doctor than in the middle of Spain. I'm sorry that all these things you don't say. My duty is to tell the truth. Indeed, we have built 54 health centres and invested 110 million euros. We're going to build or expand 20 more health centers. And at the end of the legislation we'll have 82 new or expanded health centers, which means new health centers for 700,000 Greeks. [[Applause]] Your Honor, we have more tools, no doubt, for doctors. And electronic revenue has saved more than three million administrative consultations. The telephone consultations, which had not existed before, gave solution to more than five million consultations that doctors, from health centers and through telephones, moved. And the electronic medical history, and the nursing specialist in primary care, and the digital report of 100 percent of the primary care tests... Your Honor, today the faculty, the healthcare staff, has more means than when you rule. That is, with less money, with much less money than when you ruled because Galicia today still has EUR 1 billion less budget than when you squandered public money. Your Honor, since we arrived in the Government, we have increased by more than 149 primary care professionals, family doctors and pediatricians, and more than 83 nurses. Today there are 5% fewer patients per doctor than in 2008, 5% less patients per doctor than in 2008. Your Honor, we are among the six autonomous communities with more doctors per user of the National Health System. Now, do you miss professionals? It's true. Don't we have enough family doctors and pediatricians to cover casualties and replacements? It's true. Do we need to train more family doctors and pediatricians? It's true. Now, Your Honor, I don't think it's reasonable to say these false truths that you just reflected, like, for example, that the casualties are not covered. Look, Your Honor, it's very difficult to cover the casualties when at some CAP in the Vigo area 17% of doctors are on low. And it's very difficult, Your Honor, to come here and say that there are people who take care of themselves outside the agenda. [[A lady lady from the chair: [I'm dying!]]] The answer is yes. [[(Expression taken by the President in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]] You know why? Because in primary care in Galicia everyone who gets to the health center is up to now. We can deal with you -- like the Republican Left in Catalonia -- and say you won't take care of those people who don't have a previous appointment. Is that your proposal, Your Honor? If this is your proposal, of course we're willing to discuss it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u6	Finish it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u7	And to say that there are doctors who present themselves to public job offers and that, therefore, there are doctors, that is absolute falsehood. Doctors presenting themselves to public job offers have temporary contracts, and what they want is to have fixed statutory contracts, so those doctors are working. And if you have any doubts about it, the proposal we made yesterday — and I repeat today — is that we offer all the family doctors and all the pediatricians who form a stable contract in Galicia, immediately after completing the MIR, between one and three years until they approve the public job offer. That's a proposal we moved to trade union organizations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u9	...that I hope BNG supports and their union as well. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u11	Mr. Feijóo, I have the feeling that you don't understand anything, or you don't want to understand anything, about what's going on since public health, because you can't understand what's going on today since sovereignty, or from the contempt and insult that you've just done to the professionals and users of public health. When there's a problem, what does the president of the board do? [[Applause]] Defamation. When someone points out that there's no such reality parallel to what you're talking about, what do you do? Defaming the workers and workers of the CAP. It's a real shame what you just did here today, Mr. President. There's a way to defend the workers and the workers! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, look, his biography is marked with privatizations. First of all, with the comarcas foundations; and now, as president, as a great privatization and broker of public health, especially in primary care, Mr Feijóo: 2,000 million euros of cut-off. And today primary care has 188 million euros less than when you came to Galician Union. Here's your service sheet: where you cut most, where you privatized most, was in primary care. [[Applause]] And, look, how can you say that professionals lie, Mr. Feijóo? Because I told you I was bringing here the words of the professionals, and it's the professionals who are telling you that it's a lie that there are no doctors and doctors, that every time there are oppositions more people than squares. What happens, Mr. Feijóo, is that there are many people who are not willing to work on the precariousness that you have installed in the public health system after ten years of training. That's the problem. [[Applause]] And, look, you're also lying when you tell us you're doing everything you can to improve the health care of this country. Look, when you got to Galician Union there was a primary care improvement plan. What you did was paralyze him, put him in a drawer, and always act by decree without any kind of dialogue. Today there is an absolutely limited situation in primary care, in emergencies and in CAPs, and you're not talking to these people. And the important question is whether you're going to rectify, yes or no, the cuts. Look — and this concludes, Mr President — it is clear that Mr Almuña can't go on for one more minute taking up his chair because he's not doing it right. And I'm convinced that you're calculating the best time to put Mr. Almuinho's head in a silver tray to save yourself. I'm absolutely convinced. [[Murmurs.]] But this will do nothing if it does not end with cuts and privatizations. Since the BNG we have proposed a plan to improve primary care, 200 million more, because we can't solve the situation with imagination, economic resources are needed. And secondly, a plan to give stability to the wings and professionals. Don't keep them going. And for that you can, for example, start by summoning those 5,000 vacant squares into a public job offer, or you can put in place a recovery plan for all the jobs that have been lost. Because, really, Mr. Feijóo, after years with a replacement rate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u12	Finish it, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u13	...of 10%, how can you have the face of telling us here that there's more staff if what they did the policies of the People's Party was to prevent you from being able to hire more staff?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u14	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u15	Are you willing to get all that staff back?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u17	Are you willing to end the cuts?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u18	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u19	That's it, ladies and gentlemen, what you need...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u20	Quiet, please. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u21	...—Sorry, Mr President, I am finished, that this is an important issue—...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u22	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u23	And don't tell us what to see if next year starts to take...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u24	Your time is up, Mrs. Pontón. Thank you. Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u25	Look, Your Honor, defamation lessons you can give me as many as you want. To say that I've devoted my life to privatizing health is a defamation, an improper defamation of a Member. To say that we're even privatizing primary care... but do you know what primary care is? [[Murmurs.]] Besides reading me some arguments, you don't hear what I just said. I say we have 149 family doctors and pediatricians more than in 2008. We just approved the budget yesterday: EUR 4 billion in public health. How can you say that we are reducing the budget when we have the largest budget since the Galician Health Service exists? [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, how can you teach us how to do health centers if we're built or expanded 54 and we're expanding or building other 20 -- 82 -- and you've finished 4? Four health centers completed in the Bipartite in four years! And they were already initiated by President Fraga's government. It is, at least, regrettable to hear these defamations in the House, Your Honor. But how can you say that doctors go to public job offers and that we have to take 5,000 places when we have agreed with union organizations 5,000 public places in public job offers by 2020! [[Applause]] How can you continue to insult everyone, deceiving everyone, simply bringing questions to the random! Look, Your Honor, when you ruled, the patients by primary care provider were 1,347 on average. Today there are 1,275 patients per doctor, that is, 5% less. [[Laughter]] The theory? No, no, Your Honor, this is not the theory. This is the individual health card.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u26	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u27	I know there's more frequency now, I know there's an ageing population now, I know that primary care doctors now have more medical pressure. That's all I know, and that's why we're working with them. And that's why we met yesterday with all those associations and we're also going to call patient associations to listen to them. But, look, Your Honor, since we arrived, the first thing we did was expand the templates. The second is to deal with the career — which you have not done —. The third was to extend those who are over 65. Now there are 140 doctors who have their retirements extended. The room was an open and permanent contest where any doctor can request an empty square at any moment, and there are over 500 doctors who have already requested it. And we'll keep working. Since 1 January, i.e., in a few weeks' time, the doctors of the Galician Health Service will charge an average of 6% more in each payroll — first commitment. Secondly, we're going to extend the retirement age to 70 years. Third commitment: we will create a primary care manager, a primary care director, in all health agencies in Galicia. And fourthly, we're going to facilitate contracts between 1 and 3 years, at least, to all the resident family doctors and all the pediatricians who are trained in Galicia. Those are our commitments, Your Honor, those are our commitments. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We take good note of the protests. Unfortunately, you don't want to accept that all these protests are taking place in other health services. In that you're fooling everyone. But that's your responsibility, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] In the same way that we gave professionals an answer and we have agreed on a career, the same way that we will deal with the measures that are necessary to improve the schedules of doctors in primary care, to improve their replacements, to improve their stability, to improve their salaries and to improve contracts, for the first time - we offer them to the unions - up to three-year contracts to all doctors who are trained in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u29	...family doctors and pediatricians. Those are proposals, Your Honor. Yours, unfortunately, is not a proposal, it's a slander. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u30	Thank you. Before we close the debate on this question, I would like to comment on Mrs Miranda. During the course of the debate, the president of the Union was interrupted, like some other Member. But you've interrupted him with a word that can pay attention to dignity. I'll ask you, if you want to remove her... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I'm sorry... yes, yes, I was... perfectly fine. The word I know what it is. You take that word off? "I'm dying!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, it's not a word that should be part of the House's normal decoration. [[Strong murmurers.]] Don't you take it off? I'll take it back, and you have a call to order. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Mrs. Miranda Pena speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, nothing else, that's all. I'm not giving anyone a word. No, that's it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I won't give you the floor. No, no... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let's not get complicated, no, no... that's it, that's it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, please, I'm not going into a discussion. They know what mechanics is and we've all met, we've met. That's it! Quiet, that's it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, we've met, and I'm not going to tolerate that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the policies envisaged by the Government of Greece to improve the situation of young people
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u31	Mr. Fernández Leicega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u32	Good morning to all and to all. After the convulsing situation of the health system, the question of employment — solely in youth — I think this is the issue that worries citizens in Galicia the most. Yesterday we talked about the situation of the health system, the need for reforms. I hope they take note and meet some of the things they're saying. But today we have to find solutions between all of us for the situation of youth, to design a future in which they have their capabilities and that their demands can have a way out. But in order to do so, Mr President, we need a common basis for diagnosis, a shared recognition of the situation, of the critical situation. If you want, we can appeal to the famous Christmas spirit to, instead of taking our rags and making tactical fakes or looking for a way to discredit the opponent, agree on a diagnosis and try to build a framework from here where our youth can have a better future. If we had done so, we would probably agree with the difficulty of being young today. We ask them to make great efforts, to be the best generations in our history, to work in the education system, to learn computer science, languages, to be willing to move, to know Europe, to go abroad. We ask them all of this, they do it in their vast majority, and then what? And then we offer them very little on their way out to the labour market. We offer them too little. The way out to the labour market is overwhelming for many and many of our boys and girls. Hard to find a job. There's 40 percent less busy Thursday than in 2008. You'll tell me there's less youth today than in 2008. It's true, but the occupancy rate measured in numbers of busy on the total of Thursdays has also fallen, and ten points have fallen since the year 2008 despite the fall of the number of young people. And precariousness as a promise: low wages, temporary contracts behind each other, very harsh working conditions, unforeseen mobility... and all this generates uncertainties, stress, lack of confidence in the future, and also in the public sector. Let's hope they're willing to change these things. And there are too many difficulties to be emancipated, too many difficulties. The housing policy was eliminated by Mr. Rajoy's government and, as a result, today, in a market that is recovering, the situation of rental is very worrying to many who are unable to leave their parents' home and find a place to live autonomously. There are no compensatory public mechanisms either. We need to talk about this, and what I propose is that, just as the famous Toledo Pact was a reference that allowed pensions to be sustained during the crisis period — even with many difficulties, even with many cuts — let's do something similar between us for youth. Let us make a "Compostela Pact" which allows us to design a future where we agree with most Members of this House and which gives solutions, which gives hope, which gives hope, which sets out a better future for all; a pact in which we should work on educational issues, on training or employment, on housing issues and, above all, on labour issues. If we are able to agree on this, I know Galicia as a whole, and youth specifically, will thank us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u33	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. Don't worry, we're going to fulfill the commitments we made in the House. In fact, we will offer stable contracts to all primary care family physicians, up to three years old. And, however, we hope that in the public job offers we have agreed on, they will be able to obtain a fixed statutory square. Secondly, I have just reiterated, and I reiterate to you, that in January, on average, the salaries of the medical staff and the nursing staff amount to 6%. And we made the decision to appoint a primary care manager in all primary care agencies. Yesterday we heard the different societies and medical schools, now we're going to call patient associations. We have to make decisions. In Catalonia, a decision has been made: that only those who are waiting will be treated. That's a primary care decision. I don't know if you agree with this model or not; the nationalists, yes. That's why we're going to talk, and that's why we're talking. And I thank the Minister of Health at last yesterday in the Senate admitted, first, that he undertakes to increase the number of MIR squares. We've been asking for it for years. And secondly, that it is active -- this has to do with employment, Your Honor -- that it activates the Human Resources Commission, which has been disabled since the motion of censure arrived, the Human Resources Commission in the National Health System. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I wrote to the minister to ask for this. Yesterday he spoke up at the Senate. I hope you do, Mr. Leicega. But, of course, young people need first, to have a job, to have training, without a doubt. Secondly, of course, there are possibilities for employability. And thirdly, to have a youth strategy. Your Honor, we have 51,000 more enrolled in FP than there was in the Bipartite. These boys who are here, from Noia, are studying vocational training. It's funny that a government during an economic recession had been able to create 51,000 more squares in FP; that is, twice as many squares in FP. If we were to take ten years with this policy, how would we be today, Your Honor, from the point of view of employability? Your Honor, this government has the lowest university rates in Spain. That's also called employability. Vocational training, university fees, multilingual institutes, digital books... Your Honor, we did all this during the economic crisis. But you know perfectly well that Galicia is the second autonomous community where Spain's youth unemployment was the second most severe; the second autonomous community where children under the age of 30 have been unemployed in recent years, the second with the lowest unemployment rate. Today we have more social security affiliations in under 30 years of age than we had when you were ruling. If you tell me, and you feel satisfied, I've answered it many times. The answer is, no. But if we have more members of Social Security under the age of 30 than when you were ruling, something the companies and the Greek society have done well. Look, Your Honor, when we got to the government there were 63,000 guys who stopped, now there are 25,000. It is true that it has lowered the young population, of course. We have an obvious birth problem, but those are the information and those are the proposals. Your Honor, we have invested, since 2017, 47 million euros for the benefit of more than 33,000 boys and girls. There is an important increase in training programmes, an important increase in self-employment programmes. For the first time, we opened the two workshops specific to children under 30 years of age.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u36	And today you can see, and yesterday and tomorrow, probably, that we lack labour for the naval sector, for the automotive sector and for the forest sector. And we have specific programmes, training programmes, for all these sectors. Your Honor, if you ask me if I'm worried about youth employment, about youth unemployment, the answer is yes. But you agree with us that the situation of youth unemployment in Galicia is better than in the middle of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u38	And so we can keep talking about what you want, about this and anything else. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u40	Yes, about health — which you have devoted to him for a while — I have to say that yesterday we ourselves said that we needed to change policies. If they're really going to seriously rectify these policies by reducing precariousness, making it easier to have more doctors in primary care and in the public health system, welcome. We'll be watching, but, of course, they know that this means serious correction to their policies, which I've been defending so far. Rectify and hit, correct and hit, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] Secondly, look, I have the busy data. He just said there's more busy than when you started ruling. But there's 87% less, 211,000 to 124,000, under 30. You can't say those things because you discredit yourself, Mr. President. And the occupancy rate has dropped too. Of course, if there's a drop on Thursdays of 40% because it decreases the number of unemployed in absolute terms, of course, Mr. Feijóo! But there's less busy and less busy on Thursdays. And, look, you know what the problem is? That there are some things that are going well, no doubt; but there are many others that are not. And that's where we have to rectify, just like he says he's willing to do it in health care. For example, we proposed to substantially increase the scholarships for master's studies, for the masters, which is where the difference is today in relation to the Thursday labour market, and they told us not. We proposed that you make an effort to reduce the rates of first-rate enrolment and encourage efficient behaviour of students in university education. They also told us not to. And, in budgetary terms, we approved the budget yesterday, but you know perfectly well that the autonomous employment funds of the Board fall this year in relation to the previous year, they go down! Only the funds brought by the General Administration of the State to Galicia City, but their own efforts are falling. And, in terms of housing, all the additional housing effort, which is 20 million euros next year, proceeds, in a very high proportion, from what the General Administration of the State does. And you weren't able to execute for these years, nor were you capable of 50 percent of the poor funds they had for housing policy. So if you want to speak seriously -- by the way, of that covenant I offer you I haven't said anything -- let's do that pact, let's review all these policies and some more, like mobility, and give them a hopeful future for Thursdays. I proposed that we agree on the diagnosis because I know that only if we agree on the appropriate diagnosis -- there are some things that are going to be better, but there are others that need substantial reform -- can we move forward. If not, if you don't accept the hand you have in this case so that we can talk about it, we'll go wrong, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u41	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close the question by Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u42	Mr. Leicega, you shouldn't bring to the House the issues of rectification of public health policies by saying that we now need to give more coverage and more public job offers, when you know very well that, since you removed the extra payment and lowered the remunerations to the whole world... yes, Your Honor, Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero, 5%. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Doctors, 7% in their salary. They banned the autonomous communities from making public job offers and now it turns out that there is instability in the public services sector. Mr. Leicega, a little memory, a little memory! [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, you're talking about unemployment. Being of the Spanish Labour Socialist Party and talking about unemployment is a contradiction in itself. I think you're willing to rectify it. Now, every time the Spaniards called us to rule in Spain, there was a deep economic crisis, 20 percent unemployment in the time of González and almost 5 million unemployed in the time of Rodríguez Zapatero. A little respect for labour policies and economic growth policies! Mr. Leicega, you're also talking about not running the employment funds again! Executed in 2017: 80%. He says we're an autonomous community that's not efficient in the execution of employment funds. And why is it that in 2018 we are one of the autonomous communities to which the government — socialist — has just incorporated more money for employment policies because it is one of the communities that best executes the employment funds? 8.7% more active employment policies because we are a community that is implementing employment policies, which the Autonomous Community of Andalusia did not do, which returned millions and millions of euros to the Central Government. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because employment policies are executed according to law and not against law. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I just gave the unemployment records to young people under the age of 30 in Galicia. Did he reduce unemployment in Galicia among young people under 30 years of age, yes or no? The answer is yes. For a long time we had to hear that the boys were leaving Galicia every year. And it turns out that the year that most young people left Galicia was in 2007. And from the year 2009 until now, there are more than 2,800 young people who have come in and out. Your Honor, you know perfectly well that there is a clear demographic component in the active population. Since 2009 the population between 16 and 30 years old, the population has dropped 110,000. Well, what a coincidence!, it's exactly the assets that go down from 16 to 30 years, 110.00. So, if we have less active population, the logical thing is that we have less active population occupied in the same age range as low. Of course we have less stops! That's why we have to take both and tell the truth in both, not just one, Your Honor... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u43	Mr. Lake, be quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u44	Mr. Leicega, with all due respect, you know that at this moment there are more young people studying in Galicia than ever before, because school dropout has dropped by 13.5%. Perhaps the education system works, and today we have better capacities and better levels and less school dropout. Some of those students at the time of the year 2007 were working on construction. Now they're training, and we're optimistic about youth employment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u46	...we are absolutely optimistic. But if you want to talk — have you ever had any difficulty talking to us? — the first thing we should do is stop educational counter-reform at the Congress of Deputies. Do you want to talk about education and at the same time derogate all the rules on education? Home, Mr. Leicega!, a little respect. [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u47	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u48	Now, if you want to talk about education, employment, health, I'm at your disposal, Mr. Leicega. It's a pleasure to be able to argue with you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u49	Silence! Mrs. Vilan, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u50	...and come to an agreement with you. At least when they leave him. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u51	Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece to stop the continued deterioration of public health in Galicia, which caused the resignation of the eighty percent of the heads of service of the Health of Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u52	Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u53	Good morning, gentlemen. First of all, the President of the House wanted to tell you that it seems to be disturbing some polysemic expressions, as is the case with our honourable Member's expression before an expression which he did not consider to have been adjusted to the truth by the President of the Board. He expressed a feeling: "No, I'm dying!" Well, it's a feeling, yeah. That bothers you, just as it bothers you that the relative of a deceased person comes from cuts in public health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u54	Quiet, please! Silence! He's talking to me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u55	... and to express here also a feeling in this House, which was the one of his own deceased when he expressed that feeling saying, "Let me have a doctor, that I die!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh You're upset that certain truths are being told because they're uncomfortable. And, as much as they dress up in more or less grandiose ways, they respond to a truth, they respond to a social feeling that it is necessary for you to enter this House. And that's why we can't accept their continued censorship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u56	Is that my question?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u57	No, the question is to the President of the Government of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u58	No, excuse me for a moment, because I want to clarify this. I want to clarify it, because you just told me two or three things here, and I have to tell you something, too. Silence! [[Strong murmurers.]] I am speaking, please, to everyone here and there. A lot of things I don't listen to them, and so sometimes I can't do what I've done. But today's I heard it and therefore, as you will understand, it is my duty to preserve the decoration in this House. And I won't allow that. What I did was to invite the honourable Member to withdraw it. The honourable lady did not want to withdraw it and therefore it is a call to order. Strict application of the Regulation. Second, I respect that you tell me to ban the entrance, I will always do it. We are not here to allow the entry into illegal committees, constituted not in accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure. When they are in accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure, all the doors are open. And when you don't agree with Parliament's rules, you have your rooms, as they did. No one's stopped him from talking here, no one! What was this about, the room or what? Let this be clear, because I don't want it to play with this too. These expressions must be done like this. [[Applause]] And now we start again. You have three minutes for your question. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, I say the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, when early in the autumn we asked him precisely about this question, about the state of health in our country, and about the death of a person in the road CAP for lack of medical care, you said here that we "do what we can." We do what we can in the face of the abandonment of rural areas; we do what we can, and we burn the mountains; in industrial policy we do what we can, and companies go to northern Portugal; in energy poverty we do what we can, and 180,000 people are left without the last resort tariff; in the area of equality we do what we can, and they condemn Junta for violation of the right to strike in 8M; and in the field of public freedoms we do what we can, and we have the workers and workers of CRTVG on strike for preventing free and independent reporting. We do what we can. They do what they can and are happy to do what they can, and everything is enough and you think that's enough. He said earlier, answering the other question, four things that seem very significant to me: that they were building or that they had already built eighty health centers, that they must seem sufficient — the new ones or those who are reformed —; that they are very satisfied with electronic clinical history, telematics assistance; that they were very happy with the care they provided to patients and were pleased with the referral of primary care. They must be very happy, yes, and they must seem to be sufficient resources to improve those four issues, Mr. President. Do you think it's enough of the Galician Union's effort and the Galician Union's investment effort, do you think it's enough? I ask this — and it's not a rhetorical question — because in November we know an internal credit transfer within the Health Council that removes the following games to put in these other games. For example, it removes almost EUR 900,000 computer equipment. It takes away investments in land and construction of health centres more than half a million euros. Remove from drug-addiction control programmes more than 100,000 euros. And besides, look, it also takes off the management and coordination of primary care — November 2018 —. It seems to you that all of this was well-attended enough and then they take the money out of public attention in these four areas. For what, where's the money going? Yeah, look, go to concerts with private entities. It can be seen that public health is well cared for, there is no need and money can be withdrawn for the construction of infrastructure, for computer equipment, for drug addiction care, and above all for the management and coordination of primary care to give them to private concerts; to get out of the public to get in private. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, after he's resigned 80% of Vigo's primary care area heads and there's no problem here. There is no problem at all to the point that the first reaction of the counselor was to say that they were exaggerating and lacking the truth. Mr President, if it is not enough three minutes, let the President of Parliament give you six minutes to explain why this transfer of credit, like public health at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u60	Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope you'll listen to the spokesperson, for now, of the Tide of Podemos and give me six minutes. That would be great. Mr. Villares, "Let's do what we can"... it gives me the feeling that you don't, that what you ask we can never do, and that's why you start having very solid difficulties. [[Laughter]] And he also says we're happy. Look, if you're happy, obviously leave us with the problems of Galicia and you manage yours. [[Applause]] Mr Villares, with all due respect, to come here with these credit transfers is to ignore the functioning of public health, to ignore the operation of a budget of EUR 4,000 million and to ignore a fundamental fact — and to this end —. The concerts, with these governments, went down, and the concerts with the two parties went up. So, in health, that you carry all the legislation ringing your ears, it's playing again. Look, Your Honor, last Monday I had the opportunity to be in Ourense after finishing a complete hospital building, in full economic crisis, of 50 million euros, in full economic crisis! Look at the health care with the Bipartite that in Ourense we inherited hospitals like the Piñor Crystal with three beds per room and with a bathroom every two rooms! Then the country's public health was perfect. We were left with a hospital, I insist — and I give the reference again — with three beds per room and with a bathroom every two rooms. This was the Bipartite in the city of Ourense. We made a building of 50 million euros and we presented the second project, which we will start in 2019, of 64 million euros more. [[Murmurs.]] I said there — and I repeat today — that health is not a complete work. No, health is always unfinished, it's always better and conformism doesn't fit. But it's so important not to fall into the conformism that everything is fine as claiming the fact that we're in the best public health we've ever had, best we're in the best public health, yes, Your Honor. [[Applause]] There are thousands of examples that believe what I just said. The main and fundamental thing is that the Greeks are valuing public health better than in the last sixteen years. That's not what I'm saying, the Ministry of Health. Mr. Villares, accept that Galician public health is within the best of the National Health System, and so we can start talking about things that don't work well, the things that need to be corrected, the mistakes that can be made, the difficulties and the strangulation of the medical pyramid from the point of view of age. And so we can build something, Mr. Villares. If you deny bread and salt to 38,000 families working in public health, if you deny the Government the fact of building or expanding 54 health centres in which we have legislation, if you are denying that we are currently working in most hospitals, Mr. Villares, I'm sorry. By the way, since you rule in many parts of Galicia, I ask you only two things. Look, in August we applied for a license to the Ferrol Council so we could bid for the extension of the Ferrol hospital. We're in December, and tomorrow we're going to approve at the board of directors the bidding of these works. They are fundamental to hospital health in Ferrol, they are key to hospital health in Ferrol. I ask you to intervene and we have the building license so you can build an improved and expanded public hospital in Ferrol. First request. Second request, Mr. Villares. You rule in Cangas. We have difficulties in Morrazo from the point of view of infrastructures — from that point of view Mrs Pontón was reading. We don't have space in Cangas or Moaña. The continuing attention points in Cangas and Moaña are absolutely inappropriate in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u63	We've been asking for enough floor to build a health center and a continuous point of attention in Cangas. Are we going to pass the plot so we can build a continuous attention point and a health center in Cangas? Yes or no? Mr. Villares, in addition to the fact that the Councils of the Tide are taxing us for public health in their municipal term, I ask you to intervene in your group — I suppose that they will agree — and to grant a work licence to extend the Ferrol hospital and that we have enough ground to improve the facilities of the health centre and the continuing care point in Cangas. Mr. President, I thought you were six minutes old. But in any case, Mr. Spokesman, those are my requests. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u64	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u65	Let's see! Let's see that I know well! Do you want me to take the phone and call a mayor to tell him to speed up a procedure? Are you saying with total impunity that I must call on the phone for an administration to skip the procedure because of your license? [[Murmurs.]] This is the shape... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u66	Silence, please, silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u67	Man, man...! So much refuse in your way of proceeding...! I don't know if it's your usual way of proceeding; not ours, of course. Our... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u68	Quiet, please! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u69	Anyone who initiates an administrative process must follow the procedures. Or do you think that because some people call on the phone they're going to get an axilization that's not provided for by law? [[Strong murmurers.]] That has a very ugly name in the penal code. And, of course, to us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u70	Quiet, please! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u71	They won't find us in the traffic of influence or prevarication... No, they're not gonna find us there. [[Protests.]] Let us hope that the President will remove that expression from the Journal of Sessions, that incitement to crime, because it must be a real incitement to crime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u72	Silence! Mr. Trenor, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u73	Secondly, they still resist you — three, five, six, those who wanted or left you — to explain the transfer of credit and why you took off the management and coordination of primary care for private concerts. You still have time to explain why you took off the constructions and acquisitions of land for health centers to give it to the private. And you have the possibility to explain why you're taking off the drugs programs to give it to the private. But, look, he also said something else that's not true either. He said the health concerts went down. Well, look, I have here the data that brings out the employer of private health in Galicia referred to over the last two or three years — actually to a broader historical cycle, but we're going to what's going on in legislation, as it says they've gone down... According to the private health employer in Galicia, approximately 3% have risen since 2016, 199 million in 2016, 203 in 2017 and 205 in 2018. His assertions therefore contradict what the Greek employer says about private health. Do you want to explain who's lying to us, whether you're the Welsh employer of private health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u74	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u75	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr. Villares, I repeat. Look, we presented the license for the construction of the Ferrol hospital, the extension, exactly on August 14. We have no answer. I proposed that the mayor request a report from the General Secretariat of Urbanism. If there's a disagreement between Ferrol technicians and the General Secretariat of Urbanism, we assume our responsibility. We have no answer. What do we have to do? Do we bid the work or do we not bid the work? What do you think, that there is no priority for public services in the municipalities of the Tide? Is there no priority to try to solve a problem — obviously — which is, by wanting to build the extension of a hospital, not even if you answer us? We are convinced that this hospital can be built because these land is sanitary. There's a discussion about the vial. We proposed a meeting with the General Secretariat of Urbanism. Why don't you accept the proposal? Your Honor, do you know why, among other things, we have reduced primary care credits in the field of works? Because we can't bid for the constructive project of the health centre and the continued attention point of Cangas. You know why? Because we don't have enough soil, and we don't know where we can build the health center and the continued attention point of Cangas that primary care doctors in the Vigo area are asking for. What are you talking about and what are you playing at? That's not influence trafficking. That's defense of public health over any other priority, Your Honor, over any other priority. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, how you can't study a license for a health center! What do you mean, no? Of course you do! Look, there's a mayor, the BNG mayor in Pontevedra, who decided not to charge IBI taxes to health centers and the new hospital. There are other mayors, like Vigo's, who charge us for everything. There's a mayor, the mayor of Pontevedra, who is agreeing with us the access to the new hospital in Montecelo. There's another one, Vigo, that no electricity, no sanitation, no supplies, no access... Zero!, not a euro for or alone! Of course there are different sensibilities in public health! The mayors of the Tides, what do you want to be, like mayors of Vigo or mayors of Pontevedra? That must be decided, Your Honor, that must be decided. There's no problem. [[Murmurs.]] That's our way of getting along with anyone who's interested in public health in the country. You're not interested in anything, you just come here talking about a credit transfer. It's, at least, regrettable. To understand the budget of the Galego Health Service, of EUR 4 billion, with a credit transfer when we're at the end of the year and in November, what we have to do is spend exactly and execute the budget... come and tell me about a credit transfer. Look, Your Honor, credit transfers from the Galego Health Service suggested we have 72% more surgeries today than when we arrived at the Government. Those credit transfers suppose today we have 1,500 more people working in the Galician Health Service than when we get to the government. And those credit transfers suppose we're operating 30,000 more people a year than when we get to the government. Look, Your Honor, we've increased public job offers, we've asked for increased MIR education in the family and in pediatrics, we've expanded retirement age to 70 years, we've increased salaries by 6% from January to health professionals, while you're promoting pseudoscience, while you're publishing anti-activines, while you're still encouraging irresponsibility, they're still going against public health, they're still denying us licenses to build health centers and hospitals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u77	...and you are irresponsible in your opinion. And I'm not telling you the irresponsibility you've managed. If they're not even able to facilitate licenses to expand hospitals, if they're not even able to facilitate ground to build health centers, imagine for a moment that they've ever managed public health. I can assure you, Mr. Villares, that they would skip all the health alarms. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Mr. Sanitary Counsellor, Vázquez Almuína, asks for the word.]] What do you want the word for, Counselor? [[Mr. Vázquez Almuínña pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Give a voice to the councillor's chair. [[Strong murmurers.]] Excuse me a moment, see what it's all about. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, first we'll know what it's all about. I don't know. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u79	Mr. President, Mr. Villares said exactly that the Health Counsellor had said that the chiefs of service who resigned in Vigo lied. That's not true, there are no such statements, and I'd ask you to withdraw it if you're not, of course, sure of what you said at that time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u80	Mr. Villares? No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think he's saying that he's inaccurate. He speaks of inaccuracy, and Mr. Villares will say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u81	It was my mistake. It was the boss of Vigo's EOXI who said that. Whether or not the counselor ratifies EOXI's statements I don't know anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u82	Thank you. Everything is rectified. There's nothing to understand, there's nothing to understand. [[Laughter]] That's it. [[Murmurs.]] It's over, it's over, it's over. No, no, it's all clear, it's all right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yours has nothing to do with this. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Madam, is that you're new in this Parliament and you have nothing to do with... No, it has nothing to do with this. [[Protests.]] No, that's it. We continue with non-law proposals. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Marcos Cal Ogando and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the project to carry out the Atlantic Highway on the route The Coruña-O Porriño, the destination of the budgets planned for this end to the rescue of AP-9 and the preparation of a study for its reinforcement, as well as the fulfilment of the parliamentary agreement on the increase of the frequencies and adaptation of the schedules of the Atlantic railway service, the reduction of the price of the tickets in it and the start of the procedures for the rescue of the AP-9 concession
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u83	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u84	Mr. Cal has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u85	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Well, this long title that has just been reported by the president... Fundamentally, this initiative seeks to move forward in the path of the recovery of AP-9 — this parliamentary agreement we have in this chamber — to optimize the network of roads in Galicia and to invest rationally in this network of roads. The proposal for tracing — and even the existence — of the Atlantic Highway Project, A-57 The Coruña-Santiago de Compostela-Pontevedra-The Porriño, in the State Roads Act, is another example of the blind bet on high-capacity roads and by individual transport the motor that has marked the policies of the People's Party for so many years, regardless of the rationality of the actions, of which we already have many examples. An example of these infamies, which is now present, are Madrid's radials, which have cost citizens so much money. A big deal for the big builders and a ruin for the whole of society. Infrastructure is built oversized by the builders that we pay among them all for these builders to fund the People's Party. That's the plot that so much money is costing citizenship, that's the plot that state security bodies and judicial bodies have brought to light in recent years. A form of corruption that has recently motivated the motion of censure in the Central Government and which makes the Spanish State internationally known for its corruption; that is the Spanish People's Party Brand: corruption. The construction of A-57 The Coruña-The Porriño would be, in addition to an unacceptable spending on money in a context of cuts of all sorts of basic services for citizenship and a truly destructive environmental impact, a redundant infrastructure, because from north to south, from Porriño to the Coruña, we already have a high-capacity track, which is the AP-9. The construction of A-57 has a history marked by inaccuracies, improvisation and darkness, and little we know of this project: changes in names, presentation by frames, variants, circumvaluations... depending on the moment it is presented in a different way, without any one of the Administration of the State or of the Greek Administration, today, speaking clearly of this project which, according to the State Roads Act, is a highway that runs parallel to the AP-9 the territory of North to South, of the Coruña to The Porriño. The construction of A-57 would greatly reduce traffic in AP-9. The examples and cases of highways operated under concession schemes that do not have the traffic projected and that require the Administration to inject money into concessional companies, as is the case in Galicia by the Santiago de Compostela-Ourense motorway. In the case of construction of the Atlantic highway — A-57 — it would be foreseeable that there will be traffic to AP-9. We all understand that if users have two possibilities to do the same route, one payment and another free, logically users will use the free route. So we can see in the situation that we have to invest hundreds of millions of euros in building a high-capacity track from Porriño to Coruña and then have to invest both in the concessionaire of AP-9 because of the fall in traffic in it. Because we know this is the model of neoliberalism of amicables, where the bank always wins and citizenship always loses. And all of this is done in a context of environmental and energy crisis that is not taken into account by these types of projects, projects that do not look to the future and that are not responsible. We are currently facing climate change and the overrun of the oil peak, and they both directly affect transport and mobility. So one of the first steps to face these challenges is to optimize the use of the roads that we already have and dynamize the forms of sustainable mobility, and not keep this run forward. Logically, we understand that, once AP-9 is released, there may be patterns along the way that they may need to be reinforced. And we understand that there may be some specific stretch of A-57 — or some new frame that needs to be created — that may be necessary to strengthen the AP-9 itself. So we put a battery of proposals in the resolution that is based on the rationality of the road network, ending with the scam of the AP-9 concession and management, and dynamizing sustainable mobility. On the one hand, at the first point, we are asking to discard the Plan of Execution of the Atlantic Highway as projected in the State Road Law, a highway that runs from La Porriño to La Coruña. We therefore propose that the Central Government be urged to withdraw the Road Catalogue. The second point: we propose to add these budgets to the AP-9 rescue; then we calculate the low price of high-capacity track kilometer in Galicia on this route, with the kilometers that would be, as in the State Road Law, we would go, throwing down, at more than one billion euros. We've seen the prices that the dealership herself is running for Audasa's sale and therefore we understand that with this money it could be enough for this rescue. We also propose to develop a study, as I said, of those places which, once released to AP-9, may need to be reinforced; one of these projects of A-57 or some new creation project could be used. Fourthly, the agreement reached in Parliament in Galicia to increase frequencies and adjust the timetables in the railway service of the Atlantic axis, which also makes the same line from north to south. Therefore, encouraging the use of this service would also be positive for mobility and for the vertebration of the Atlantic axis. There is an agreement approved in this Parliament and therefore we must press for it to be executed. There are concrete proposals from the same railway union that are on the table to solve these problems, the problems of hanging up the cartel of "no tickets" Monday mornings to come to Compostela or Thursdays and Friday night, essentially, to get out of Compostela. We must therefore implement that parliamentary agreement as soon as possible. And then, a fifth point, which would be to change Renfe's tariff policy — the downside of tickets — and to bet on the transport of neighbors. Galicia is the only coastal community in the state that doesn't have a neighbourhood service, and this has to be solved if we want to dynamize sustainable mobility. And finally, to begin the necessary procedures to achieve the public rescue of AP-9 by carrying out a thorough study of the costs of operation and financing mechanisms, which we have been demanding for a long time since our group and which the People's Party and the Galician Union are constantly refusing to do. Obviously, we will need a study and it will be important to start a study on how to perform that recovery if we want recovery. There is agreement in this Parliament on this issue; therefore, we must look for ways to get this done. The Audasa management of AP-9 is the story of a scam where the company earns one out of every three euros it collects in the fees. Transfer is an important and necessary step to manage from Galicia which is Galicia's main channel of communication and territorial vertebration. But, in order to end the scam, we must keep moving forward and we must walk towards the recovery to the public, to put AP-9 to the service of the Greeks and the Greeks. What we're talking about is ending up with the scam that I assumed and continues to assume the system of fees on highways, which is not only a problem for the whole of Greek citizenship, because I'm forced to pay excessively high figures to make use of a basic public service, but, in addition, the management of this highway ends up doing badly, thus exacerbating the scam. When we talk about AP-9, we talk about one of the most expensive highways in state territory, which is paying for the Greeks and the Greeks every day and which above gives the worst of the services of all road dealers. We're talking about a highway that distributes indecent dividends, and we have to end this with the recovery of AP-9, which earns one out of three euros, and that 50 percent of its revenues are profits before taxes, only within the range of monopolies. When we talk about Audasa, we talk about a company that shares all its benefits among its shareholders while giving a terrible service. And that's why the prosecutor's office acted in front of the passivity of the People's Party, in front of the mugging that leads to attack by Audasa all the Greeks and the Greeks with the restraints they're facing at the Rande bridge, where they don't lift the barriers and where they charge the citizen for a service that doesn't give. And where the People's Party is looking elsewhere, the Prosecutor's Office has now decided to act. We're talking about a company that cheats Galicians by charging them for a service they're not giving. In Galicia there is a political and social consensus to transfer and recover for the public the management of AP-9, the Atlantic motorway, given the importance of management for Galicia's economic and social development and for serving private interests to the detriment of the general interest. So, for my part, nothing else. I hope this initiative can be approved and we support the recovery for AP-9. I will have no problem in searching for transactions or seeking points of vote, always and when — the fundamental question, which we want to defend today — we move towards the recovery to the AP-9 public. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u86	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u87	Good morning. We feel to disagree, even if it is partly, with this proposal from my little Marcos Cal because, in fact, we agree with the AP-9 rescue proposal — which has already been approved here in plenary — an initiative to do this study and for the nationalization, indeed — and we can call it that — of the AP-9. And we also logically share the measures proposed for railway promotion. Although they are not the central object of the proposal, railway promotion measures are collected which, of course, BNG shares fully and which have already been approved in this plenary, not only in that third of the Atlantic axis, but also in that reference to the necessary improvement and modernisation of the line between The Coruña and Ferrol — and also in the southern exit — to end the railway isolation of Lugo, to the improvement and modernization of the line between Ferrol and Ribadeo, or also to the improvement in what has to do with ourense connections. Anyway, it's a lot to do and it's both the responsibility of the Government of the United States and the Central Government. But I say we do not share, we do not agree with the proposal made in connection with A-57, which is the real reason for this initiative. It's not an initiative on that non-existent intelligence of the Atlantic highway that actually appears in the State Road Catalogue, but from which there is no project, no memory, no justification anywhere. And what if there are, yes, are the projects and works of A-57, in particular, in what has to do with the circumference of Pontevedra, which — I say — is the real reason for this initiative. It does not seem logical or reasonable to us the proposal on the rescue of AP-9 with the funds planned for A-57 that are already running, or in project, between Curro and Vilaboa — for now — and that they involve an investment of something more than 300 million euros. We think that there are other better options, without failing to invest this money, to nationalize AP-9, and that it has to be with funds from state budgets, as it was done with those destructive self-strengthening Madrid radial roads, which have cost over two billion at the moment, and to see where the figure comes from. The BNG defends — it has always defended and defends also here — the need of this A-57 as a means of free-to-peak communication between The Salnes and Pontevedra and the A-52, in the Confurk, in the Porriño. It's a historic demand from Pontevedra that in 1998 took more than thirty thousand people to the street; also for a single hospital, but one of the main demands at that time was a direct connection, without having to go through Rande, without having to go through Vigo, for the connection to the A-52 highway. And it can't be said, strictly, that it's a road parallel to AP-9, but this is a connection without passing through Rande, without passing through Vigo, without passing through A-55. It is unrealistic to think that the PA-9 free toll can assume all the traffic south, when we are already, at this moment, with an absolutely collapsed route on certain dates, with a Rande bridge that has more than 50 thousand — it reaches sixty thousand — vehicles per day, or with the situation of the A-55 between Vigo and the Porriño. Besides, we're talking about Pontevedra's circumference east, an alternative to the saturated and dangerous N-550, which has truces of accident concentration and which is a very dangerous, very saturated road of traffic. And, of course, it seems logical and reasonable to us to be concerned about the environmental impact of infrastructure, but we are more concerned with the vital impact. The impact that N-550 has, for example, on Lérez, Salcedo, Figueirido, Vilaboa or Arcade and therefore the need to make an alternative vial connecting The Salnes and Pontevedra to A-52. It must be borne in mind that there are people, many people who live around a road that, I say, is very dangerous — it's on that list of the most dangerous roads in the state — and that they suffer from the inconveniences and dangers of living next to that road. So, with the amendments of BNG — which are substitution amendments from the first two points — we want not to paralyze, not cancel, not eliminate those investments, but to speed up and boost the construction of the A-57 between Vilaboa and Curro, also taking into account the allegations made by the municipalities and social groups, for example, to improve the connection in the Curro link. And we also propose, with our amendment, that the concession of AP-9 with state funds be redeemed; that it be made with those funds of the State, not deducting the money of A-57. For the rest of that supposed, non-existent, fantastic Atlantic highway, you'll have to look for alternatives and solutions in each of the places where there are problems and ways of circumvaluation are needed. And once again, I say, the BNG is roundly, firmly in favour of A-57, and it is also the majority position of Pontevedra society, as clearly stated in that great demonstration and as twenty-three of twenty-five members of the Pontevedra Corporation say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u88	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. The initiative brought by the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea today is a two-way initiative — let us say — in the sense that it mixes two very different things, although both of them, of course, with something fundamental as is the mobility of people. In that sense, we fully agree with what you put forward in points 4 and 5 of your non-law motion, concerning the execution of the parliamentary agreement, to increase frequencies and adjust the railway service schedules on the Atlantic axis. As Mr Bará has just said perfectly, and I agree with him, would also require certain non-structural improvements, but mainly concerning taking into account the singularities of the autonomous community, especially in the railroad connection with Lugo and La Coruña from Ourense, and also concerning the narrow railway in the north of the autonomous community. In any case, I insist: we agree with that part of the non-law proposition, but also, like the Galician Nationalist Block, we disagree with the rest of the proposal. First of all, because, in fact, A-57, with that plot that you described between A Coruña, Santiago, Pontevedra and O Porriño, is a highway that appears in the State Roads Act, Law 37/2015, as it appears in A-59, between Pontevedra and Vigo, another infrastructure that could also have its importance. But in the case of A-57, which is what motivates the En Marea initiative, we are talking about a virtual intellect, beyond that — as we all know, and Mr Bará already said — there is a project that is of vital importance to Pontevedra as the constitution of an alternative route to AP-9. But let's go to parts: the problem of this virtual project we have to find it, among other things, in budgets that, during the years 2015, 2016 and 2017, made the Government of the People's Party, the Government of Mr. Rajoy for this autonomous community, which had budgets in infrastructure in 2015, 1,355 million euros; in 2016, 1,329 million, and in 2017, 892 million. That is, in total, an investment planned — theoretically — of 3,578 million euros, and they left out of execution nothing less than forty-two percent, that is, 1,502 million euros. In fact, the only concrete — and when I speak of concrete including the drafting of projects — is, with regard to A-57, the connection between A-57 and Confurco, in A-52, which has the project in writing. From the Pattern to the Peace of Borbonne, a project in writing; from the Peace of Borbonne to the Soutomajor, a project in writing; from the Soutomajor to the Vilaboa, a project in writing; indeed, from Vilaboa to the Hermida, a work in execution; from the Hermit to the Pillars, a project in execution; Pillars-Barro—connection with the AP-9 in Curro—, an informational study in writing, and Valga-Curro, phases prior to the informative study. I mean, papers, papers and papers. Machines doing work, nothing more in a plot, and therefore, despite this magnificent road investment plan, the famous PIC of Mr. Rajoy's People's Party of 2017, advertised in July with five billion euros, there is nothing concrete for this autonomous community. In fact you also know perfectly well that, from that A-57, of which is the north of Pontevedra towards — theoretically — Santiago and The Coruña, there is not even an elementary trace, there is no drawing on a map from which I could go. So, from there on, there's no such virtuality anymore, it's just that there's absolutely nothing going on. But we cannot give up a project that is vital for Pontevedra — the circumference of this city — and that would, in addition, connect in that kind of macronom that would be formed in the Confurcture between A-9, A-55, A-52 and AG-57, and that would, in addition, prevent traffic in transit — all that is addressed to Portugal and all that is addressed to the Meseta from Pontevedra and from this autonomous community — because it would be absolutely unnecessary to circumvalar Vigo. We know, everyone who travels there frequently and those who travel on occasion, that AP-9 in the city of Vigo is practically a road of urban circumvaluation; traffic density is absolutely inadequate for a highway. We're not talking anymore, because Mr Bará has already said so, about what happens on the Rande Bridge. I therefore believe that it is not about changing resources that do not exist at any time — i.e. about your proposal to transfer the money destined for A-57 to the AP-9 ransom — because there is nothing destined for A-57; therefore, we are talking about money that does not exist for something that must be — we understand — discussed in the Joint Transfer Commission. And that's why we've proposed the amendments that you know: the first of them, to analyze those sections of the A-57 project that are needed to improve the high capacity connections of the autonomous community, and to study within the AP-9 Joint Transfer Commission the mechanisms for that transfer to be produced in the best possible terms for this autonomous community, since, as you know, they have just reached an agreement to drive an urgent process at the Congress of Deputies to achieve the transfer that was initially approved on Tuesday last week at that congress. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u90	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Very good morning. This proposal by the En Marea group we will analyze it, because, indeed, it translates into several measures of a socio-economic nature that will undoubtedly affect the Greeks. The first social measure that involves this proposal is to deny the Greeks a free alternative that they have to go on a free highway. This, in addition, is an infrastructure for which Pontevedra has been waiting for years and years, and we can't give up on her. But the project of A-57, conceptually, is that of a free highway that serves as an alternative to a track with peaxe, which is AP-9, and you propose to ask the Government of the State to banish the execution of A-57, that is, to refuse to equip Galicia with a free highway that would be constituted as an alternative to the free highway of the Atlantic, which is of peaxe. And what would it take? It would imply that citizens will not have that alternative to AP-9 and, therefore, if they want to go on a high-capacity track, they will have to pay a fee. We, Your Honor, do not share this proposal. We, unlike tides, want the Greeks to choose in the future between going on a free highway to the beach — paying for it — or going on a free bus. And we can't understand why they want to pay a fee to all those who want to go from Coruña to Puppet without paying a fee. The truth is, this deserves an explanation. Second social measure of the tides of Podemos. It is as follows: to allocate millions of public euros to give them to Audasa, a private company. You propose that the resources to be used for the execution of the AP-9 alternative highway are destined for the rescue of the Atlantic Highway. That's what your proposal is. Then they talk about a rigorous study to study the cost. I think it should be the other way around: first, study the cost, in your case, and then decide whether to rescue or not. But anyway, we don't agree with that proposal, because I think you haven't really meditated on this proposal. Because your rescue plan was supposed to pay the bill, in just one time and immediately hundreds or even billions of euros to a private company. And with this ransom, Mr. Cal, you would be doing him a real favor for this private company. It would be the business of the century, because certainly Audasa would rather charge those millions of euros today instead of continuing to exploit concessions for years in order to make them. And it seems that, again and again, if you put yourself on the company side, as you have already done, for example, with the first phase of public transport implementation. But, finally, what's clear is that In Marea wants the millions of euros to get Galicia to have a free track of duty to fill the ark of a private company. That's what your proposal is, Mr. Cal. And it's hard — really, it's hard — for that company to find better friends than you do. But what was this supposed to mean, besides? I suppose the Ministry of Development has focused its entire investment for a decade on the Welsh Atlantic axis, thus forgetting the interior of Galicia: the province of Lugo, the province of Ourense. And we asked ourselves, is that the vertebration you propose to Galicia? Do you want hundreds and hundreds of millions to be rescued from AP-9 and you want them to look just like, for example, the citizens of the Ten or Ourense keep paying fees to come to Compostela? Look: in a response from the Government — I would like to read it — in which it was asked for this ransom, the following said — a recent response from the Government —: "As regards a possible rescue (...) the Government does not currently consider this possibility given the high costs that this would entail. It must be remembered that taking such a measure always brings a cost." Well, that's what your partners in the Spanish Government answer you because you supported a motion of censure to put a person who has lost the election and, therefore, they are your partners, because if you're ruling, it's thanks to you. And in the agreement they made with the general budget of 2019, which does not exist, we don't see at any point that they were committed to compromise and discard A-57. So why do you come here to ask what you dare not ask your partner Pedro Sánchez, Mr. Cal? And we're going with the last step. The last step is, after delivering a large amount of millions to a private company to rescue AP-9, to spend more millions on extending AP-9 to — logically — its expected collapse once it is rescued and free. So I think you should ask a engineer what your opinion is, because anyone will tell you to spend hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros on saving AP-9 would force you to spend several hundred million more on expanding it, because — logically — the increase in traffic that would suffer from being free would lead to collapse, and you would have to expand AP-9 in almost all of your route. So they don't make sense of their ideas: we would have to make an investment to expand the AP-9 after allocating money for a free toll-free bus and pay them to an AP-9 concessionary company. So, we already know that all you want is for the AP-9 dealership to cash in and close your best score of history results by rescuing this highway. The Greeks, fortunately, have the People's Party as a guarantee that no decisions will be taken in Galicia that do not suit the Greek interests. And there's a detail that clearly reflects the disagreement with your proposal, and it's only that even the BNG doesn't follow it. But there is something worse, and more relevant and more revealing, than the Socialist Party, which is able to say one thing and to deny it in seventy minutes, follows this proposal. They don't realize they're naked, they're not followed by either the BNG or the PSOE, what do you mean, Mr. Cal? [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, I will not urge them to dissolve themselves because they do not want to understand that this is not a request from the People's Party, it is a request, a cry from the Greek people, both those who are not in the Tides and those who are in the Tides, Mr. Cal. So I just ask them, why don't they dissolve, why don't they explain it? [[Murmurs.]] I think they'll always stay...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u92	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u93	I'm done, Mr. President. It's all right, Mr. Cal, because they'll always have the chance, in a few years' time, to be able to say: I don't share some things I said in the past. To ask that the A-57 be discarded was a wrong position. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u94	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u95	Mr. Moreira, whoever has a demonstration out there asking them to dissolve is you, not us. The citizenry doesn't ask us to dissolve, ask you, Mr. Moreira. [[Applause]] They're asking you for it in every sector. Some of you are constantly asking for it. I'm going very quickly because, of course, it doesn't give me time to address everything. Very briefly. With regard to 57, if it's a phantom project, if it's a virtual project, if it's only paper, we shouldn't have a problem asking it to be eliminated, because we're talking about a project of enormous silence for Galicia in terms of mobility; we're talking about a high-capacity track that runs through the territory where 70% of the Greeks and the Greeks live. We understand that it deserves something more serious than this project on the table without the precise and in-depth study. We understand that there may be arrangements — as the PSOE and BNG spokespersons have already commented — that can be useful. Let's study what these steps are and see what they must be driven to do. But we understand that it must not be the whole project. For us the first step is to release AP-9, and in that sense we're going to look for transactions, we're going to seek, if necessary, to make points, separate some other issues, to try to reach an agreement on the recovery of AP-9. It is an agreement that already existed in this Parliament and we understand that further progress must be made on that path. Mr. Moreira, whoever denies the Greeks and the Greeks a free high-capacity route from the north to the south is the People's Party, because the AP-9 remains a scam until 2048 thanks to the extension of Mr. Aznar's concession. The People's Party is responsible for the fact that the Greeks and the Greeks do not have a route of free high capacity from the north to the south, because at the moment the highways of the AP-9 generation are being released, you are responsible for this situation. They tell you that they want Galician citizenship to choose between a high-paying route and a free way. Home!, Galician citizenship, of course, will choose free. If you have to choose between a free payment and a payment, will you choose the payment? Obviously, you'll choose free. And what will happen when the traffic gets diverted to the freeway? That at AP-9 you'll have to inject public money for the fall of traffic, which is what happened to Madrid's radials. It's you who want to pay twice. You want to pay the builders so they can build the A-57, then they can fund their campaigns, and then they'll pay the dealership too. This is in the state security bodies and the courts. That's why a motion of censure was made in the state, that's the reason, for its corruption with concessions. You want them to go money to the builders by building A-57 and then you go to Audasa by falling traffic, as happened in the Madrid radials. They've done it. You just did it with the Madrid radials. That's his corruption. You are the ones who deliver money to Audasa. They tell you we want to inject money into Audasa. The Greeks and the Greeks are injecting Audasa, more than 100 million euros a year. More than a hundred million euros a year we're injecting the Welsh and the Welsh to Audasa, what we have to do is get rid of that scam, get AP-9 back and put it to the service of the Greek and the Welsh, which by 2048 we're going out winning, and very much. You're the ones who want to favor businesses. The same way you talk about road transport companies. He didn't come to us who sent him and gave him bottles of wine. You know him perfectly well, his corruption is perfectly known by all of you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u96	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u97	You build high-capacity pathways, and then companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u98	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u99	...they pay for the campaigns. I'm going to propose to you a transaction and a point vote — if you consider it to be the case by the different groups, as I say — focusing on the recovery of AP-9. There is a deal in this Parliament. We continue to defend exactly the same, which recovers to AP-9, to see if the rest of the groups continue to maintain the AP-9 recovery position, because it is an agreement of this Galician parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u101	Let's see... if there's an agreement, Mr. Pazos, of course there's an agreement! Of course there is agreement in this Parliament of Galicia!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u102	Thank you. Peace, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u103	And if you don't want to do it right now, you pull it up and say, we don't want recovery, and that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u104	They don't dialogue. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u105	Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u106	Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] Anything else? Anything else? That's all right, I say. We're at Christmas. Agree, please. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, on the impulse for the Galician Union, before 2020, of a specific study on the financing and implementation of universal basic income in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u107	Please! The two Members, if they want, can talk out there. No, no, insult is not. Mr. Peace and Mr. Cal, please, if you want to talk about it, outside, but now we're going to debate another non-law proposal. A little peace of mind comes to us all. Read the entire text? Yes, whole linen. Then you have the word to formulate the proposal not of law. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u108	Quietness, this one will be approved unanimously and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u109	If not, I'll call them both in order. A little serious. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u110	Our initiative, the initiative we bring today, is very simple, certainly, what happens is that, at the same time, it opens up a strategic debate, and we want to start with it in this House, rigorously, a fundamental debate that has to do with deep challenges that we have, not as a Greek people, not even as European individuals, but also as humanity. We're talking about structural elements that have to do with challenges that we face, such as the climate crisis, the changes in the productive model, the growing social polarization we have in our country too, and that go far beyond what we can legislate in this House or what we can urge the government from this House, from an autonomous House. In fact, they go far beyond what a sovereign state can even have. It is a debate that is already on the street, which has been being moved by social groups for years and which has even arrived at institutions in the form of motions that have been approved in councils by all the groups present in this House, so it said that this initiative can well be approved unanimously. Motions were adopted urging the State to move forward in the debate on the implementation of a universal basic income, to assume a resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and to urge — liberally — the Council to promote a public debate on this subject and to take the necessary steps to advance, within its competences, the establishment of a universal, unconditional, individual and sufficient basic income in the State. So, what a better way to start this debate than to approve this proposal, which is just a study that identifies what the cost of implementing universal basic income in our country would be. We no longer ask them to stand in favour of or against the universal basic income. In Marea, we do not have the 100 percent position and we have some doubts, but we do believe that we should move forward in that debate with a serious and rigorous study that would not only be used to analyze how basic income could be implanted in our country, but also to have more social radiography of the people who are in need, who need an income supplement in our country. Just by giving a data, labour market data in tax sources: 614,026 people in 2017 or they either paid less than the SMI or less than the minimum pension; these are the data of inequality. Therefore, we believe that with this proposal they could do a study, so that basic income has already been analyzed for Catalonia and Guipúzcoa, following the methodology that has also been applied for the study at the state level, and that would allow to study what would be the cost of basic income implantation in Galicia, but in addition — as we have already said — to make that social radiography so necessary. What is the chance of this proposal? First, as I said, global challenges, because they all have to do with the need to strengthen social protection mechanisms that are not working. Global challenges such as the climate crisis, which is behind many of the social conflicts we have today. Challenges like social polarization. It's not just a matter of our country. We've been losing power for 40 years in the working class and work is not functioning as a social integration mechanism. In our country we see it clearly, half the working class is precarious. So we also opened this debate: is it possible to return to the 1945 model? We don't know. Technological challenges are another challenge. The development of technology may call into question many jobs. It is true that this debate is not closed, because whenever there were technological changes within capitalism, there have been many other jobs. The question is, if the transformation so radical that can happen in the world of work is so structural that it makes a large part of human work indispensable. But in the end, it does not separate us from the global question that we need to put that technology to the service of humanity, to the service of recovering time for our lives, to the service of making ourselves owners and owners of our lives. Secondly, another opportunity for this proposal — I said — is due to the context of huge inequality, which has not diminished, has increased during the crisis, but has continued to be there during the post-crisis call. Social protection mechanisms are not functioning either in the State or in the Autonomous Community. Risk is absolutely insufficient. If employment doesn't guarantee to get out of poverty, the mechanisms that are available to alleviate the need situation of those who don't work are not working either. You come now, the People's Party, four and a half years after they had to do it, with a change in the Risk to be able to match jobs. It's not enough, four and a half years, without being able to support income, on the other hand, minimal, insufficient, with jobs. Another element that makes us bring here this proposal is, as I said, the need for a precise X-ray of the need in our country. Clearly, we have statistical data, the ESC report confirms that the majority of society does not emerge from the crisis. The study of EAPN poverty always puts us there that poverty bag that survives and, by the way, increases in adolescence and childhood. And we also have those data that I quoted from the labour market in tax sources: more than 600,000 people would need income in order to have decent lives. But it is also that Junta leaves without publishing this study on child poverty that she did in 2014 and that, as much as we ask according to article 9, we are not provided. I mean, it's also a political intention not to make transparency on this issue, because it shows — as I said — the failure of social policies. In this sense, what is the universal basic income? Well, it would be a public monetary allocation for all people. It responds to the philosophy of advanced rights, which links freedom and material justice. The Monterrey Declaration of Human Rights pointed out that the current framework of global relations is a scenario — literally — of "poverty, violence and exclusion", so, among other measures, it would put universal basic income on the table as a right of citizenship. Ensuring the right to existence is the basis of all human rights. It was already said here yesterday, rights must be effective. Without material equality there is no effective equality of any kind. That is why basic income brings this debate to link benefits not only to employment, not only to employed work, because, as we have said, in this world employment has lost its role of social integration. And so, as we've already stated, there's a fundamental debate about whether universal basic income goes into contradiction with the right to employment. Well, what would guarantee universal basic income would not be loss of the right to employment, but have a minimum income mattress that could guarantee the right to decent employment, because it could allow you to refuse unwanted jobs, it could allow you to develop productive jobs, which are necessary for life support — forgiveness, reproduction — jobs that have to do with care, and even creative jobs. We have already talked about what could be the possible loss of employment for technological advances and the doubt we have about it: if technological advances are going to create new jobs or if transformation is such that much of the job would be lost. In any case, what we want is to take up this debate from humanism, from that humanism which leads us to claim that technological advances are to put life at the centre and to realize the dignity of each person. So what is the basic income in this context?, a public allocation? We've already said that it would be received by all the people who hold citizenship or accredited residence, universal, so it's a right. No income, poverty or lack of resources would be required, but it would be unconditional, a right, and individual, would not be linked to family situations. So we believe that basic income is not a project on the left, it's a Republican project -- we said before -- it's a mechanism that allows you to live with equity and thus ensures that nobody has to ask someone else for permission to exist. It's a Republican right because rights to equality are only real and effective in a context -- we said -- of guaranteeing material conditions of existence. So, we're not proposing that you approve an anticapitalist alternative, we're proposing an instrument that allows you to correct the disorders that this system causes and that we're seeing there: structural poverty, the concentration of capital, structural unemployment, the brutal precariousness of the working class, which we know a lot about in Galicia, and it would be a tool to recover that power from the working class after forty years of disposing. So we don't put it like panacea the universal basic income. It would be necessary, within a global project, that there was a reinforcement of the welfare state, that there were certain rights not subject to mercantillization, that there were labor guarantees, that had been betted by the end of machismo. Universal basic income is not going to correct the world's structural problems, but it's going to be a fundamental instrument for, for example, preventing people in exclusion from having that constant stress of worrying about how they can get to the next day with income and can concentrate on their emancipation. That's what the world of social work says. It's very difficult to intervene with people who charge so little, or they don't charge, who are worried about that tiny decent existence and can't move forward in emancipation projects. This is happening, they're seeing the municipal social services in our country. We have to keep in mind — time is over and I still have half an intervention — that the basic income model that we propose, and that this study proposes, does not reduce the state of well-being, what it does is, with a reform of the IRPF, to redistribut the incomes, in fact this count that would charge each person for the fact that they exist, would actually only occupy 3.5 % of GDP because part would be financed, in the sense that other types of income and perceptions that people had, and that would be less than that income, would already be discounted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u112	We know that this study has some problem, but, I repeat, doing this study in our country would ensure that we already improve our insufficient corporate policies, because we would have an X-ray of people who would need an income supplement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u113	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u114	Good morning. About ten years after the beginning of this last crisis we can already draw a lot of conclusions, and one of them is that the output -- theoretical output, at least -- as much as macroeconomic data is already giving us some numbers, and one of those numbers and those most important conclusions is that that exit of the crisis is representing more inequalities. In that out of the crisis we have to be aware that the consequences for thousands of people, for millions of people in the world and thousands of people in Galicia, are having conditions and consequences of a lot of gravity. It's meaning a very precarious integration of many thousands of these people, to whom the risk of a recession, even if it was mild, would push them back to a very important exclusion, that the social protection system is clearly proving to be insufficient for the reduction of the most serious poverty, and is giving data in the sense that the rich are getting richer and the majority of society is getting poorer and more destitute of many goods. They're giving us the data that most of the non-rich population has worse wages, worse working days, worse job insecurity, worse general working conditions, workers who with legal contracts are below the poverty line, an increase in the percentage of poor people, poor jobs in many cases, many jobs without the slightest sense of decency, so to speak. There is a reality, in this very, very studied, that there is a lot of studies on this poverty situation, and this is also to make it very abundant in sharing, that there is a lot of bibliography about which it is a very shared situation by thousands of people, also to put into the collective idea that that consciousness of the reserve army, so that we are aware that there are thousands of people in this situation and that we also have to assume this situation as unremovable and that we have to accept it. With regard to the Spanish State, where Galicia is inserted, there is data at this point more than enough that in the Spanish State is where inequalities within the framework of the European Union have increased most, but even at the world level it is also where people who have accumulated wealth have increased, where the rich have increased. I say this because, just as there are many studies on what the situation of poverty is about, there is not so much about what the situation of wealth is about, there is not so much about how wealth is accumulated, because if people don't want to know how wealth is accumulated, because if they knew how wealth is accumulated, in studies like what they propose here today, it wasn't so necessary that we insist on whether it's possible or not that all the population has access to the goods needed to have a decent life, whether there are resources or not, because then it would be more clear that there are resources. The point is, they're badly divided and they're piled up in few hands. If it had been more public knowledge as wealth is accumulated, we wouldn't have so many doubts as to whether the majority of the population might have access to more goods and that that redistribution of wealth was possible. Data. For example, between 2008 and 2017, in the Spanish state 0,48 % of the population — i.e. 24,000 people — accumulated EUR 560,000 million. That is 0.48% of the population has accumulated 560,000 million euros. They obviously accumulated twice as much as they had up to that point; that is, a real barbarity. I mean, 0.48% of the population was very good, and most of the population wasn't good. This was coupled with measures which were taken, lives from the European Union, taken enthusiastically by the governments of the Spanish State and the Government of the United States, such as a reduction of 5% of the employees' salaries, the freezing of pensions, a reduction of EUR 60 billion in public investment, infrastructure, cuts of EUR 1,500 million in public expenditure of the autonomous and municipal administrations, labour reforms. I mean, all this cutbacks for most and accumulation of wealth in a very short stretch of the population. I mean, do you have to do a study to see if income is possible for most of the population and redistribution of wealth? Well, there'll be a need for studies, but it's evidence that there's wealth, but it's more and more accumulated in less hands. I don't have time to keep giving data, which I have here, but, in any case, what is obvious is that another model is needed where wealth does not accumulate in a few hands, but there is a fair redistribution among most of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u116	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. First of all, I would like to give a warning to the Members and Members of the People's Party if they did not find out. The workers and the workers of CRTVG are at the door of this Parliament. I'm saying that because when we left the opposition, they were asking and shouting why they didn't leave the People's Party. [[Applause]] So I'm saying, see if it's because they haven't found out, because it's raining, or because you're still not able to stand the criticism banners and you're still unheard of after six months of mobilization. Let's get to the point, ladies and gentlemen. After years of economic recovery there is still in Galicia 131,456 citizens with severe lack of material. What does that mean? They're people who can't afford a meat meal, chicken or fish every two days; keep their housing at a proper temperature; pay regularly the expenses of those dwellings; or have a telephone. They're people who don't have any of these four important and necessary issues in their day-to-day lives. I'm one in every 20 people in our autonomous community. It's true that the Arope fee has dropped, it's true. It is also true that we have been repeating in recent months, in view of the euphoria of the People's Party, that surely that rate is low as a result of the higher rates of poverty among young people, and as the president of the Union himself recognized here today, there are 110,000 under 30 years less than before the economic crisis. They are consolidating these inequalities. The decline in that rate has declined three times as much in women as in men between 2016 and 2017, despite the fact that there is, in these recently approved budgets, no measure, nor will be taken in the coming months, or next year, to combat that tremendous scourge that is the feminization of poverty. And while the number of Risga perceivers is low between 2016 and 2017, the government hasn't done its homework, we've been repeating it for a long time. It has been years to develop that decree of the Law of Social Inclusion; four and a half years of delay in respect of what marks the law itself. And this, of course, has caused problems for these citizens and citizens who need it most, with administrative obstacles, with problems in order to live in the same home, to compatible with those precarious jobs, with disorientation with their own administrations. An income which is neither sufficient nor worthy, nor will it be after this long development decree is passed, and which is being made longer even for the people who most need it. We say this because the countie won't go up. It is true that some questions will be solved, some problems that have so far existed, but the county will still be EUR 403, which make Risga the second lowest income in all Spain, only behind Madrid. The highest: Euskadi, Catalonia, and Navarre. As my colleague Mr. Losada on many occasions has said, "disgruntled ideology," because this has no other name, gentlemen. While in Galicia it is EUR 20.4 per inhabitant the investment in this income, in Navarra it is six times higher, 130 euros; in Euskadi it is eleven times higher, 220 euros; with autonomous communities that have a risk of poverty below our autonomous community. Faced with this, according to the new Government of Spain, socialist, the first thing he did was to create this High Commissioner for Combating Poverty, which we consider to be significant and will have an important task, and they took a concrete step very important just before summer. An investment of EUR 10 million to ensure the food needs of 375,000 children and children in this country, of children with no resources, and of scholarships for those minors who are in severe poverty, so that they can access the summer camps during their vacations, from that start of previous exercises. In addition, we look at that vital minimum income as one of the legs, which has to do with the dependent child benefits, which has already announced the President of the Government that will be included in the next government budgets of Spain. Childcare benefits which will rise from 291 euros to 473; a vital minimum income consisting of a kind of non-contributory social security benefit which is similar to non-contributory pensions. I don't have time to explain it, but the case is that this allowance, which is going to be halfway with the protection of unemployment, which takes us to the socialists and the people, is pride, instead of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u118	...disgusting ideology, the ideological pride of these measures being taken. I'm done, President, with only one consideration. It is true that in view of the conditionality of these aids, both of the Risga and of what we propose through the Government of Spain, what I propose today In Marea is an unconditional benefit, a basic income that is not linked to any specific condition. It is also true that it is a state competition — as Mrs Vázquez Verao has well said — that it would also produce changes in the IRPF...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u119	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u120	...and that until now it is not launched in any country. There are experiences at the municipal level in the Nordic countries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u121	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u122	...but nothing beyond that. We are going to support this initiative today. We do not deny that there is a study on this, and that is why our vote will be favourable. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u123	Thank you very much. The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor of Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. The initiative presented today by Mrs Vázquez Verao and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea urges the Junta of Galicia to promote a study on the financing and implementation of universal basic income in our community. But at the same time, in his initiative, he recognizes that the Union has no competence to boost that basic social income. I understand that what you really want is to contribute to this public debate about this income in our community. It's not a new debate, it's not the first time that universal basic income is debated. He broke into the European election campaign in 2014, where his parliamentary group and his candidate, Mr. Pablo Iglesias, included in his electoral programme for European elections the right to a universal basic income for all and every citizen by mere stamp, without distinguishing between citizens with resources or without resources, without distinguishing between citizens with employment or without employment. Two years later, in the general elections of the year 2016, the Star proposal that we could have presented in that electoral program disappears. He disappears by changing his mind and now betting on a guaranteed income. He marches back and bets on this guaranteed income for all those homes without income, low income, modulated according to the number of people in the home. A very similar measure to that vital minimum income announced by the Socialist Party, of what the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group said. That was not the case, not only changed their mind, but you signed a pact on the 2019 budgets between the Socialist Party and the United Powers, and that you also signed, which belongs in Marea to that parliamentary group. In conclusion, we believe that they want to promote a public debate on universal basic income, but when they have the opportunity to study their implementation from the State Government, it turns out that they forget about it, something that we think doesn't make much sense. And in the meantime, what happens in Galicia? So in Galicia and Junta, what it does is to increase the risk accounts and open up the possibility of matching them with labour income in that new decree. Before, to access the risk it was necessary to be unemployed, not now. Not only is it necessary to be unemployed, but now Risga will be able to match sporadic jobs. There will be two new steps, in addition to the staff and the family members that exist at the moment: the insertion process, which is a complement to those people who are committed to making a work integration itinerary; and the transition to employment, which is a transition supplement, six months, to those people who find a job and are charging for the Risk. In addition, to calculate whether a person has the right to perceive Risk, they will only calculate the actual income they actually cover, and not those who have the right but who are not making effective. The decree also allows you to support Risk with other include hints. So with these improvements, we believe that Risga becomes a real tool for integrating jobs into the line of the recommendations made by the European Commission. Yesterday the debate criticized the Galician Union for increasing the budget for risk; in particular, EUR 64.4 million. Since 2017, there has been a decrease in the number of risk applications, specifically 11% less requests. For the first time since 2015, the number of perceivers is below 10,000 people. And this important descent is mainly a result of the social measures that were signed on the Galician Social Agenda. An agenda signed by the Galician Council, the Town Councils and the Galician Network against Poverty. So if you agree to implement a universal basic income not only in Galicia, but in the rest of the country, we think that this debate must be addressed at the national level, and who has to finance this study is the Government of the State. We are therefore not going to support this initiative of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs Arias. Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u126	Of course, Mrs Arias, we just asked for a study, we didn't ask for universal basic income. You said it yourself, we wouldn't have the skills to develop it. But it is also because In Marea — which is my group — that we want to have a rigorous debate with data. You'd be surprised to know who I voted for in the European elections in 2014. Since En Marea we have asked for a debate with data to see how universal basic income could be implanted in our country. But they have another chance, if they don't like universal basic income, they develop decent minimum incomes. With these recommendations from the European Commission, what would they have to do? To raise the risk budget to 2% of GDP, no less than 0.4, as it is currently. These are the recommendations of the European Union: covering people who need it not less than 7% of the people who need it. Having developed four years ago all those improvements that point out, which do not involve an increase in the benefit, which is a benefit of misery. That in social services there are social workers who ask forgiveness from people when dealing with Risk for the kind of questions they have to ask them. That's why the universal basic income model advances in the need for an unconditional and dignified benefit. I repeat, our universal basic income model does not question the welfare state, and as the voices of the Socialist Party and the BNG have already understood, it is a model that formulates a great redistribution of wealth. And there is margin -- we say it here all the time, and it's said by all the opposition groups -- the Spanish state is eight points below the fiscal pressure of the European Union's average. There is room for reform of the tax system and one could study this universal basic income system, which would imply that between 60 and 70% of the population would be earning this reform. They'll tell us, the rich will also collect the basic universal income. Yeah, but it's because it's a universal right, but they'd pay a lot more, they'd lose. We need to redistribute income, it's a totally unfair system. In addition, not only could we obtain resources from this reform of the IRPF so necessary, a progressive fiscal reform, but, if the fight against tax fraud and corruption were to increase, there could be 90 billion euros more of that money lost for corruption. It would, of course, come from this study to finance that universal basic income, because one part would be self-financed, as I said, with another type of monetary income that would end up being subsumed in this proposal. We know that this funding study can be questioned. You didn't come into discussion about basic income, and there might be a price up problem, but the advantages would be immense. It would be an individual benefit, it would improve the pressure capacity of the working class, the power ability to face unworthy jobs. It would, by the way, improve the situation of women. In the simulation made in Barcelona there is a great transfer of income between women and men. It would improve equality and it would have to be combined with a reinforcement of public services, especially of well-being. And it would be an antidote to the destruction of democracy. It's generating a great anger, a great frustration for that loss of rights and for that severe lack of material. I told you, it's not an anticapitalist proposal, it's a republican proposal, of equality. And if they don't take it into account, we think they're not in that fundamental debate where society is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u127	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the demand of professionals in Sergas, especially at the continuing points of attention
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u128	There's an amendment from the EMEA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u129	To formulate the proposal has the floor to Mrs. Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u130	Very good day again. I want to start this intervention today by transferring a greeting and BNG support to the workers and workers of the CHUS Emergency Service, who have been on strike for six weeks and are currently making a 24-hour closure in demand for improvements to this Emergency Service, in demand for more staff and improvements, ultimately, for better attention to this service. I also want to convey a greeting and support to the CAP professionals, of the continuing attention points, which despite having mobilized throughout this year 2018, of having moved a table claiming Sergas from the beginning of this year, of being on strike since 16 October 2018, Sergas did not consider them valid interlocutors for having called them to this meeting that he held yesterday, which theoretically was to address the situation of primary care and to seek solutions and alternatives. Of course, the CAP professionals, who in the end and after all only attend primary care situations from 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. every day, Sundays and holidays, who solve a very important part of what happens in primary care and emergencies, Sergas did not consider them valid interlocutors and did not want to listen to them. Of course, I forgot! He did not consider them valid so that they would come to the Research Committee and not listen to them at that meeting he called yesterday. Of course, I forget. It's just that the People's Party decides who's listening and who's talking, in Parliament and outside. That's right, isn't it? [[Applause]] That's how things are done, isn't it? [[Mr. Santalices Vieira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And it's a pity, Mr President of this Parliament. The opposition groups can call this Parliament, the common chambers of Parliament, to speak to those whom they consider appropriate and to call them to meetings as they wish, in whatever way they want. And there they will come to speak — they like the People's Party, the President or anyone else — the collectives, the people and the population, because Parliament is where the people of Greece are represented and where the people of Greece can come from, it is not a closed bunker for what the People's Party wants. It's not a closed bunker! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You can close the doors of the rooms, that's right; it's not that they can, but that they do. But this Parliament, of course, as far as BNG is concerned, is going to be open for all those collectives and those people who have something to say and who are interested in, and above all, in order to solve the problems. And in spite of you, the representatives of the CAP have spoken here in the Greek Parliament, and they will speak again as often as necessary. And I also want to send a greeting to the unions, who weren't present at that meeting that you held yesterday at the Council because you weren't invited. Despite what you said yesterday, the spokesperson for the People's Party, Mr. Puy, were not invited to that meeting where the People's Party, the Council, addresses the problems of primary care with the partners you consider appropriate. I won't tell you if those who were suitable, but, of course, they weren't all that had to be. Trade unions which, indeed, since 2013, in which Sergas has drawn up the latest human resources plan, a plan in which the serious problem of the Greek health system was already identified clearly, in which the level of ageing of staff frameworks was already clearly determined, mainly as regards the optional ones — including nursing paintings and other collectives, but mainly as regards the optional ones — and there it was determined that action should be taken in this regard in a very obvious way; a plan of human resources and measures that the BNG has already brought to this parliament on several occasions, and the People's Party voted against taking action. After that Human Resources Plan — five years ago, 2013 — trade unions and, in particular, the IGC — the majority trade union — have registered on occasion to set up a technical commission to address this situation, and the board has heard deaf ears and has not been taken into account. I don't know if today, or yesterday, or after that tsunami that's taking place in public health out there, the People's Party, the councilman or president of the board fell off the horse on the way to Damascus and they realized something has to be done. And now, after denying the demands of unions, the demands of collectives and the requests made in this parliament to take action, some measures will now be taken. I, of course, will have to see you first, because today the President of the Board has made some announcements; after the announcements they have to come the concretions. One of the ads was stable contracts for up to three years. Well, I'd like it later to be realized that these stable contracts will consist of. Because another of the questions is that they're going to extend the retirement age to the age of seventy; I suppose you know, all and all, that doctors, from the age of fifty-five, have legally the possibility of not making guards, even if they have an extension of the retirement age to the age of seventy. With which, I don't know if those contracts they're going to offer them will mean contracts to make these guards, precarious contracts or contracts for guards located at eleven euros, which is what Sergas is offering right now. Guard contracts located at 11 euros, precarious contracts, which are what they are offering. Don't put that face, Mr. Centeno Nunez! At eleven euros! By the way, in the Basque Country, sixty euros. Basque Country: sixty; Sergas: eleven euros. That's the recruitment you're offering, and that's why there's a mass stamp of professionals, who want stability, who want decency in hiring, who don't want to be slaves, who want to work with minimum conditions. [[Applause]] So, first question: the ads are very good, but then we want to know what the reality of those ads is. Because, of course, they removed a rabbit from the chistera: in front of the tsunami that is taking place, yesterday the council convened a meeting — and they chose who would call that meeting — take a rabbit from the chistera and come with the announcement of the stable contract. We want to see what that stable contract will be. They're going to create primary care managers. It turns out they just approved an amendment to the Health Act where primary care agencies are eliminated. We warned them by land, sea and air that this was one of the fundamental problems of leaving the primary care unsolved and undirected; they warned us all over the world, they didn't listen and now they're going to put on some managers. With what resolutive capacity? With what budget? What rank? With what ability will they change the law again so that they legally have some kind of real capacity? Or are they going to put someone there who seems to run something, like the managers of the comarcas hospitals? Is it really gonna be another ad for the gallery? Please, a bit of rigour. [[Applause]] Because it's very good that the president of the board is coming here today to make ads, but we want them in the law, we want them in the CEO, we want them to be real ads; real ads is what we want. Because, I mean, they might have fallen off the horse on the way to Damascus, but we want that fall to turn into a DOG. We want it ourselves and we want it from the professionals. They want them professionals, which part of them, when they left the meeting yesterday, said it's not time to continue doing meetings or work teams, it's time for concrete action and action. Some of the professionals did not believe anything of that meeting; professionals who were equal to those twenty-five heads of service who had already resigned, who did so after the meeting and the meeting and the meeting, from which they left without any concretion. That's why today's BNG brings here a proposal with concrete measures that, if that yesterday's meeting is not just for the gallery and it's to make reality come true, I suppose there won't be any problem with the People's Party voting in favour of it. The first is to respond without further delay to the demands of the professionals who provide their services in the CAP, of which Sergas is known, because that demanding table was transferred to Sergas at the beginning of this year 2018, almost one year ago. With which, I suppose, at this point, they are already realizing that something is happening in public health, they will begin to meet these demands. The second point is to immediately carry out a rigorous analysis of the actual needs of Sergas staff and of the devices that need to be met and covered. If you don't have a problem creating six teams so you don't know what conclusions you're going to have in February, then you won't have a problem doing a rigorous analysis as well, and that this parliament approves something, and not only the outsiders of this parliament take care of the issues. I suppose this parliament will approve something. The next question we ask is to convene all vacant squares in all categories existing in Sergas; not only the promise that contracts will be made do not know what kind, but real and concrete issues.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u131	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u132	I'm done. Carry out a quality employment offer intended to faithful professionals on the recruitment lists. I suppose if the president announces that he is going to make contracts, the People's Party will have no problem voting in favour of making quality contracts for loyalty. We're asking for it here. They will vote in favour; the President announced, I suppose they will not deny the President by voting against this point now. Increase the training squares at the University of Medicine and demand of the Spanish Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u134	...the increase in the number of MIR and EIR squares. The president also said this morning that these questions have been questioned. I suppose, if you do not want to deny the President, you will vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u136	Thank you, President. Since you can't say "die" on this camera, we're going to say "defacetez". Because what was heard in the morning is quite more than an outcast. [[Applause]] To talk about that in Cangas -- and I'm going to spend a few minutes -- there's no health center because you don't want a municipality -- it's a demonstration of undoing. Eight years ago, there's been an abandoned land in the past, another municipal government has passed, and this one has arrived, and we're still in the same situation because Junta doesn't put a penny to build the Aldan health center. That's the reality. [[Applause]] Now they come out with no idea what invented a CIS -- who doesn't even know what the health advisor is a CIS -- and they get to Lalín and they get to Cangas by inventing a new center, when the reality is that they haven't put a penny for the CARs or a penny for the health centers all these years, and they come here to tell things that are false. As for Ferrol — and I am finished with this — the answer from the Health Council itself: there is only one draft. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández shows you a document to the members of the House.]] So, about what was said here that there is no answer, is that there really isn't even a project or a firm plan, what there is a draft, and today we keep waiting for the Health Council; by the way, it doesn't make a free parking lot, it has to be doing the Town Hall because nothing has been done since the Health Council. They were very worried about the rooms... do you have anything to say, Mr. Paz? [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'll give it to you, if you like, one minute, Mr. Pazos. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u137	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u138	Yes, yes. They were very concerned about the three-bed rooms in Ourense, and in Ferrol there are no bathrooms in the five-storey rooms. And remember them now, that the municipalities are coming, that they want to do a project, and they don't even have anything definitive, that the only thing on the table is a draft. We have written the reply of the Health Council. But we're going to the question: today we've heard things that really put the hair on the head. To hold the CAP professionals accountable for the current situation is, at least, irresponsible. To say it can't be covered because in Vigo there are 17 percent casualties is irresponsible and, of course, it's not meeting a reality, and I'd like to remember here why some professionals have to take a bass: "Serges orders sixty-five hours of work in five days to a CAP professional." [[Mrs. Solla Fernández shows you a document to the members of the House.]] They have absolutely not only been precarious, but they have been enslaved. Professionals have been saying they can't take it anymore. And they don't feel like looking for any kind of solution now because it's a gift or because they realize that we're right, or that professionals or union centers are right. No, no, no. They're sitting now because they're afraid of the political bill that can pass to them health mobilizations all over the country. That's the reality. Until a few days ago, they voted — as the spokesman proposed, in this case, of the BNG — on every occasion that opposition groups have proposed plans to improve primary care, the recovery of the previous one, a new plan, measures relating to the increase of professionals, planning the needs of the CAP, which were meeting the needs of professionals, absolutely every time against, in this Chamber and in Commission 5a, without giving any kind of justification that would support that position against. What's wrong? Now they have a problem, and they have a problem because in the CHUS emergencies they don't bend their arm, because the workers are still at the bottom of the cannon. And here they must be recognized as fighters and fighters who, in spite of the contempt of Galician Union, work on a strike, continue at the foot of the cannon and today are in that closure. Our gratitude also for the efforts of those workers and those workers. [[Applause]] They have a problem because primary care heads resign. They have a problem because the workers and the workers of the CAP don't bend their arms either. They have a problem because they've been assuming until the last minute they didn't want to talk about the reality of Povervisa, and now -- and we'll talk in the afternoon -- they decide once again to hand over money to a company that extortions and uses workers as currency of exchange without giving them any work rights. That's the reality we have. And we have pediatric problems all over Galicia. That's reality, and that's why they feel like negotiating now, not because they want to improve public health, it's not a gift. And by the way, there's nothing signed. It would have to be concrete, as it has already been said here, what these conditions are going to be. And since I don't have more time to say only one thing: the problems the People's Party has that solves them internally by the People's Party. Because you can't deny the House groups a room to celebrate an activity to which, of course, you have a right. And what you're not going to tolerate here — I wasn't in my seat, I was up there and, therefore, I couldn't say anything at the time — is that I miss a job of Members and Members as illegal. It's okay. If there is a call, if a call is made from the Health Council to Parliament, it is not the problem of Members, so they let Members and Members work and meet the needs of the continuing attention points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. I've explained that enough, I'm not going to explain it again. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. You're trying to explain too much about a decision that no one understands, and that's what the dangerous precedent in this parliament feels like. Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u141	Read Parliament's Rules of Procedure. That's it. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's no insult. What was the insult? What insult was there? I didn't hear any insult. What insult was there?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u142	And besides, coward, because he went out so he wouldn't draw his attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u143	What was the insult? I didn't hear an insult. What was the insult? I didn't hear any insults. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He's gone and, well, he's free to go. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Whenever you like, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. From our group we will support this initiative, whether the amendment is accepted or not. Let me make it — let's relax the environment — a little joke, if not, Mrs. Rodil, if we don't correct the initiative, be angry: it's the Faculty of Medicine and Surgery at the University of Santiago de Compostela, not the University of Medicine. But well, beyond that joke, we're going to support it. We believe, moreover, that it serves its objectives and, of course, raises a very serious question. And, as the BNG spokesperson put it here and also continued En Marea's voicer, it's a very serious situation. Some announcements have been made here, and I think it is important to also reflect on what is announced in Parliament. In addition to some other things — I have tried to comment on them all, if I have time — the President today morning announced three things like three big decisions, and I think it is important to put in context what was announced. Professional career as a big advance. Let me take the detail: who paralyzed it was the People's Party; the big decision now is to reverse a decision of its own. Increase the retirement age: of course, because there is a problem with the replacement of doctors and the number of doctors, who would be able to reduce the retirement age? The People's Party. Retrieve primary care addresses: huge proposal. I've been trying, ever since Mr. President said so, to get back the whole number of initiatives and sometimes it's been put here in a vote to get the primary care addresses back since they were deleted by the People's Party in 2012, and I haven't been able to go through how many times it's been applied for and how many times it's been voted against by the People's Party. The three star measures today on health, being the health, the three are self-amendmenting decisions of the People's Party that said, moreover, that they were doing very well, despite the fact that everyone was saying very bad. The three major decisions are self-amended to their politics. [[Applause]] And that allows us, moreover, to appeal to another question related to the usual sovereignty with which the president talks about health: it is important to recognize the times that one is wrong, and therefore when self-correction is right. Sometimes it's important to have some humility and listen a little more to what the professionals on the street say: the CHUS, the CAP, the ambulances on strike, the doctors on strike, the heads of service... it's very important to have a little less sovereignty. And there's some question, because, in fact, these measures improve some situation of those who are already statutory workers and extend retirement age; therefore, it solves a problem for a small amount of time. Let's say it prolongs the situation, but if there's no other implementation measures on the staff system, we don't fix the problem; then we're just adding it. And there comes the question of contracts. Today the president — welcome! — acknowledged that the people who introduce themselves to the OPE are already workers of Sergas; by the way, all possible, all in precarious condition. By the way, if they're all Sergas workers, we recognize once: where are the thousand new workers, if they're Sergas already? Unless they tell me a worker is new because today he has a precarious contract and tomorrow he's stable. That's not a new worker, that's changing the working conditions of a worker. If everyone who introduces themselves to the OPE is already Sergas workers, where are the thousand new workers? So it's going to be, for once, that the People's Party is right when it makes budgets and when it says this year there are fifty-eight professionals less in primary care than last year, and when the budgets say there are more than 300 professionals less than in 2009. Because that's what the budgets say. We finally discovered that the People's Party contradicted itself, even reaching an elementary point. Today he acknowledges that there are no new professionals entering the OPE, because we have such a level of eventuality and precariousness that only with the potential and precarious ones we have in the system do we already have to call OPE to stabilize them. But there are no new squares, they don't exist. So what we have to do is, besides that stabilization, new squares, which is what we've been demanding so long. Welcome to the People's Party for this self-rectification. We remind them that they have been hired stables in Sergas less than fifteen percent of the MIR graduates since the People's Party ruled. And let us remind them, despite the fact that they now want to blame other governments, who, obviously after nine years of silence, have applied for the extension of MIR squares into family medicine and pediatrics, as soon as Pedro Sánchez came in to rule. They woke up! For something good the Government also served with the People's Party: to wake up they had to ask for it. By the way, you forget to always say that, when you asked for the MIR squares in family medicine, you were granted, that there are more MIR squares granted. That evil government has granted the MIR squares. [[Applause]] They forget to say that pediatricians — they were told, by the way, painting their face enough — cannot be asked to be accredited squares. Because that's what you guys did: ask for everything to run without doing the documentation right. If they don't know how to present the papers! By the way, when they present them, the ministry told them, and they know, here will be the squares. So let's get some work done, talk less, and when they're going to talk, lower the level of pride a little bit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u146	...that you have the president, and so you'll see how right it is, because when rectification is when you're starting to say something. By the way, it's so little to trust that sometimes we're going to have to check a little bit if we do things. Let's see.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u147	Thank you. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. "The pediatricians accuse Osakidez of hiding the lack of specialists." "Two hundred and sixty Basque doctors come together to denounce the "precarity" of primary care." "Four thousand four hundred Basque doctors will retire in a decade, triple as in the previous one." "The viral letter of the 'Spiriwoman' of Basque health: "I'm overwhelmed". [[Murmurs.]] Primary care physician in Toulouse. And all this with the financing system that the Basque Country has. In the Basque Country, Mrs BNG spoke; I was not going to talk, which is being taken out right now. [[Mr. Núñez Centeno shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Of course, the doctor in self-correction I think the Socialist Government of Madrid gives it; I think that self-correction would also have little to talk about. Well, I came here to talk about this issue of the CAP, which was the subject of the initiative, although it seems, from the exhibition, that the GNP was here on Parliament's regulation. The initiative was on the points of continued attention; we have already discussed last month in this plenary and also in the committee a motion and a non-legislative proposal from the Mänder Group. I have very little to add to the saying in the middle of last month before that motion. But in addition, after the CAP, he makes the initiative, the Galician Nationalist Bloc, a mix of topics that look quite similar to the treaties in the Socialist Group's yesterday motion. And starting with the CAP: the collective was received in Sergas by the Directorate-General for Human Resources in February, meetings were held at the sectoral table, where representatives of trade unions and staff of this group participated, and a specific technical commission was set up on the issue of these devices. The board accepted several of the demands of the collective, of the initial demands: the Sunday and festive allowance, the elimination in the objectives of the percentage of hospital derivation, i.e. to charge something more when covering the targets for not deriving a number of people — that is an indicator of quality in all health systems, but in spite of all, counseling has withdrawn it — and the provision of individual protection equipment professionals. At those tables it was discussed and explained how to calculate the hour count of an activity that is a few days yes and others no, which is not exactly the same for the calculation, as it can be a continuous activity of every day. The staffing of CAP personnel has increased in recent years in one hundred and ten professionals: one physician and fifty-nine nursing professionals. We, of course, from the People's Parliamentary Group urge the two parties to continue negotiating, to reach an agreement to lift this strike that is currently in place. But in no case can we adopt the first point of the initiative, which urges, textually, "to heed, without further delay, the demands of the professionals who provide their services at the points of continuous attention, of which Sergas is known." I repeat: weak favor would make any government of any political colour that would immediately accept all the demands of all the working groups that present them. And with regard to the other points of the initiative, many of them already answered in yesterday's motion, I don't have to say. The survey requested by the Socialist Group is replaced by a rigorous study and analysis of the real needs of Sergas staff and the devices that need to be met and covered. This is done daily; the fundamental problem today is to have professionals to meet the demand for these posts and, above all, optional staff. With regard to the call for all Sergas vacant squares, I want to say two things: the first, which has to be the Government of the State who revokes the rate of replenishment — basic norm — and that rate of reinstatement — as the President said today — was set up by a socialist government, in addition to the payroll. The second is that the needs of health care change according to times and circumstances. The councillor of Sanidad de Castela-La Mancha said in an interview that perhaps fewer internists and more pediatricians would have to be trained. Maybe it's more important to cover some squares than others. The quality job offer for potential staff is already being valued by Sergas, who was studying a broader and more stable contract for professionals who finish the specialty, trying to faithful them. That's what was said yesterday, what was exhibited yesterday at the council meeting with the professionals and the representatives of primary care. In addition, however, in the case of the CAP professionals, other measures have been attempted: they have tried to seek voluntary collaboration from the health-care centres — they have accepted five — they have attempted to carry out larger guards by the CAP professionals themselves; they have tried to incorporate family residents who are finishing the specialty, who end up in May — they have been kept in health-care centres and hospitals, and it has not been achieved, and they have attempted to carry out guards located by the CAP staff themselves, being incorporated if necessary. Any of these measures cost money. These measures must be financed and paid; they must be financed. It's much more a personal problem than a personal problem. Increasing the squares at the Faculty of Medicine doesn't seem like a solution: for approximately fourteen thousand doctors, who were licensed last year, six thousand and five hundred MIR squares were offered. I don't think so; I think there's a bag already important enough of graduates without a square. If we agree at the last point, even if not in the full wording. More MIR specialists must be trained, but — as I always say — MIR specialists must be trained that the teaching capacity of our hospitals can cover. You can't form MIR indiscriminately, because it would greatly lower the quality of training. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u149	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u150	I would like to begin by thanking the support expressed by En Marea and the Socialist Party and announcing that we accept the amendment tabled by En Marea; we believe that it contributes to improving aspects of the initiative. I was already afraid that the announcements made by the president of the board were a little bit for the gallery, because if they were real, the People's Party would have no problem in real terms, because they're part of the issues that are here today on the initiative that brings the BNG. Of course, let the People's Party Member say that they can't meet the point first because the BNG says that the demands of the workers of the CAP are met without further delay, because they've been asking for a year... and, of course, a government can't meet the demands of the workers in a year, it would just be missing! The Government is to respond without delay to the demands, for example, of the extortion of Povervisa, which in one month puts millions on the table to meet their demands. Then he can do it without further delay, he'd be missing more! [[Applause]] Yes, without improving in any way the working conditions of the workers and workers of Povervisa, just to fatten their performance account. There, not the least problem. Now, to meet the demands of the workers, for God's sake! What would you think of a government if the demands of the workers were met? So far we could get there, of course! And then, the rest of the points behind the BNG initiative, such as making quality job offers, are not. Let the president announce them, yes, because the ads are in the paper and nothing else. Now, real commitments, none. There's not even the PP. Because, of course, they would soon be willing to sue the most plausible Government of the State, and they are right in one thing the People's Party: who put the repositioning rate was the Socialist Party, and we have already asked them to eliminate it at their own time — that we ask them again — just as it was approved in this Parliament, in Commission 5a, unanimously by all the organizations, that eliminate it. But who kept it was the People's Party, who was ruling two legislatures and didn't take it away. [[Applause]] And now it's a joint work of the People's Party, which is in the U.S. government and which has to go to those interterritorial councils to push decisively, not by registering a fax or by emailing anything else, but by making a determined joint work and forcing the government of the state to eliminate it. It won't be just sending a little paper. So a work by the Government of the State — the Socialist Party — and the Government of the People's Party — because works are love and not good reasons, simply. They will then vote against concrete proposals. Announcing is very good, but doing it would be much better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u151	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u152	And look, do you know what the CAP workers and other workers tell us? That, in fact, workers are not there; what they tell us is that what they are not willing is to accept the working conditions that Sergas imposes. We were told that in the OPs from 2015 to 2018, the thousand presented were exceeded. There are over a thousand graduates of family and community medicine who are interested in reaching a square in Sergas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u154	What they're not prepared for is these conditions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u155	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u156	With which, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it's good that they start taking steps, but those steps must be decided. The ads are very good, but actually committing would be much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u157	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Junta de Galicia in relation to measures to reduce the taxes announced for the purchase of habitual housing used, as well as for young people, large families and persons with disabilities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u158	There is a self-amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Maria Luisa Pierres López, through her spokesperson and in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution should be replaced by the following:"The German Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to:1. Include among the groups likely to benefit from the tax measures announced for January 2019, in particular the reduction of taxes for the purchase of habitual housing, victims of gender-based violence, monomantal and single-parent families, persons in a situation of special vulnerability, as well as sectors of the population with special difficulties in accessing the purchase of housing.2. (b)Create within the competence of the Galego de Vivenda Institute and Only a youth emancipation service that manages a rental grant for young people and girls.c)Promote experiences of housing for young people and girls by means of a rotational system, according to individual needs, in the manner of the experiences of households established in France, the United Kingdom or in cities such as Barcelona, with the example of young villas.d)Promote temporary housing programs for young people working and displaced students.e)Fomify income from intergenerational co-existence as an alternative way of living for living in the living environment.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u159	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u160	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Only the real knowledge of rights allows the ability to exercise them, but prior to knowledge is also the conviction. And for that, we need to convince ourselves that access to housing is a right for all and for all and not just a sector of the population; young Greeks have to be able to access a housing because it is their right. [[Applause]] That's why I want to welcome the people who accompany us from the rostrum today, Thursdays who know well the difficulties of gaining that right to real emancipation before the age of thirty-five. In these coming days, in addition to Christmas, there are many advertising messages that bombard us, but there is one that, every year, for the Greeks and Greeks takes a lot of vigil, and it's the one that says, "Go home, come back, for Christmas." But let us not be mistaken: with this phrase they are sadly identified, the and the young ones who have had no choice but to leave Galicia to find a future for them and also for those children and for those young Greeks who, in the last ten years, have been born out of what had to be their land, that which — moreover — needs them. And the reality for those who are left, for those who have decided to stay, is that they don't have to come back anymore, but not because they didn't leave their land, but because they didn't even leave their house. Today, at this last plenary session, I do not want to disappoint Mr Castineira, and I want to demonstrate our proactive spirit — of the Socialist Group — which led to our own self-amendment on this initiative in order to bring more real solutions to a problem that is real and to what we consider insufficient the measures taken so far. And for this, to know where we left, we provide real and official data, which is not invented by this group, Mr. Castineira, as you often try to insinuate. And the figures just come to confirm what we already know: that being young now brings more difficulties than being young ten years ago. And if we don't do anything, this situation will get worse, as statistics show, because it's the Galego Institute of Statistics itself, which finds that only one out of every ten young Greeks is emancipated before the age of twenty-five, and only two out of every ten acquire it before the age of thirty. Data which, in addition, confirm since the Emancipation Observatory of the Youth Council of Spain in its last report of the first half of 2017. Data that have also worsened five points since 2007. And more data: only one eleven percent of young people under thirty-four years of age who live with their parents have a wage above the thousand euros; therefore, the vast majority do not leave home not because they don't want to, but because they simply can't. More than fifty-four percent of the youth who live with their parents lack any income. And, moreover, Eurostat ratifies it: the average age at which the family home is abandoned is 29.3 years; it is the sixth highest in Europe. While in other European countries — such as Finland, Sweden or Denmark — the average age of emancipation is 20 years, in others — such as France, the Netherlands, Germany, Belgium or the United Kingdom — the vast majority do so before the age of five. And here the figure — I repeat — reaches 29.3 years. And what's the big difference we have with these countries? Well, that's where we consider aid to emancipation, while here the problem is in wages, the high incidence of working time, the instability of jobs and the necessary mobility of young workers. In view of the fact that Galicia is one of the older regions in the world, it does not seem that the present is responding effectively to this problem or the future is, in addition, designed to improve this situation. It is true that since the Government of the State, a number of measures of general interest have been put in place just a few days ago in the area of housing that protect tenants in addition, but it is true that from autonomous administrations with competence in this area it is necessary to design the policy that favours and guarantees the access of all social groups. The current 2018-2021 Housing Plan provides for two types of aid, both for rent and for purchase, to children under thirty-five years of age. In one case, the aid amounts to a maximum of EUR 10 billion for the purchase of housing in villages of less than five thousand inhabitants, and there are also plans of aid from between forty and fifty percent of the income for the rent for Thursday. But the truth is they are measures that need to be complemented, of course, with other kinds of help, as much as the economic incapacity, both to rent and to buy housing in the great Greek villages, is especially complicated for everyone and every Thursday. In 2017, in fact, it was found that, in order to rent a young person alone, he should allocate eighty-five percent of his salary in order to be able to be emancipated, something that is — as they will understand — totally insumable and that contributes, among other things, to the impoverishment of this sector of the population, as well as to the delay in their independence and parenthood or motherhood and, as a result, also to aging and the loss of population. And let's see what this government is doing today to favor the emancipation of Thursdays, because it creates a program of young emancipation. I invite you all to visit it so you can confirm for yourself that I'm being very generous to the so-called "program", because what you're going to find is a screen with many icons, which is this one, and among them there's a house with a man, and if you're clicking there, what you're going to find is the relationship of aid that's come up in recent years; all expired, the exception -- yes -- of a plan: the state housing plan of 2018-2021, which is on the watch. [[Mrs. Pierres López shows you a document to the members of the House.]] The reality is that it doesn't seem to make much sense that what is meant to be a specific plan of the Board is reduced to being the simple anterior to another state plan, without providing the specificities of our community in the housing search process. [[Applause]] It is a clear example of the lack of planning and lack, in addition, of purpose to do so. Therefore, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we believe that it is necessary and necessary to better address the possibility of emancipation of the young people and Greece, and especially to ensure their access to housing, exploring all the possibilities that would allow them to adapt to the needs of this collective, also during their training stage, and also with the conviction that better information must be provided that — as I said at first — can ensure the real knowledge of rights and, with it, the ability to exercise them. That is why we propose a battery of proposals that, without leaving aside the problems of access to other groups — those we believe should be taken into account in the new tax measures announced for the purchase of housing at the beginning of 2019 — we focus especially on Thursdays with the necessary implementation of what we would consider a real housing plan for youth emancipation. By the way, many of these measures have already been launched in other communities much more involved than Galicia in the search for solutions to a problem in which, sadly, this community has one of the worst statistics in Spain. The measures of this plan are, first, through the drafting of a guide for housing and youth emancipation, which serves to guide the and young women of Greece in their search for housing and which facilitates a genuine emancipation and independence, informing about the different options for access to housing: contractual formulas, tax advantages, aid and subsidies; also creating, within the competences of the Galego de Vivenda and Solo Institute, a specific youth emancipation service which manages a rental grant for young people and girls and which acts in the process by valuing the characteristics of housing, by contacting the parties, processing the necessary documentation, through between the parties where possible incidences exist, by reserve competent housing for young people and girls with functional diversity and favoring that it is, in addition, with a specific economic match that aims to be used as collateral for young people and girls with poor economic resources; finally, by providing them with a specific service in question. On the other hand, it also promotes experiences of rental homes oriented to and from girls by means of a rotation system, in the manner of the experiences of the homes implanted in France and the United Kingdom, or in cities like Barcelona, with the example of the young villages. To also promote temporary housing programs for public housing for young workers and workers, and displaced and displaced students. To promote intergenerational coexistence as an alternative mode of access to housing, which also fits perfectly with the drive of cohousing. And, as a last step, and in order to join the tax measures adopted for the acquisition of habitual housing, we believe it is necessary to increase the autonomic deduction in the IRPF by more than ten percent per habitual housing rental for those leased girls with lower income levels. Finally, it is equal to the incentives of other communities, in which the average deduction is fifteen percent; in some, like Valencia or Madrid, it reaches even twenty-five in the case of Basque Country. We believe Galicia has to get in the grill and not always aspire to be on the tail train. It's true that it's the responsibility that they may not want to take on, but today in Galicia, young Greeks want to get on the train and run with guarantees of their future. They allow this to happen, value and support the measures presented here and make it easier for our youth to take on the vital speed that enables them to keep up with the rest of Spanish and European Thursdays. Nothing else, for now, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Now we greet students and sixth graders from the multilingual centre of Bueu, the Plurilingual Center, as well as their teachers, who accompany us today. Welcome to Parliament. You have the floor now, for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u162	Thank you, President. The first reflection of this initiative is that no one is free from the sin of the self-amendment — I say it by some comments that have been made here before — because, at the end of the day, this proposal, initially, was focused on the purchase of used housing and on subsidies or tax benefits, and now it has become quite different: a proposal for a housing plan for youth emancipation, which seems very good to us, but we had no chance to amend this question of self-amendment. Because, in addition, it seems to us that it should go much further: it should also be linked to the development of a new housing plan in Galicia and to the change of the State plan, which could also point to measures in this direction, and because it should be proposed that a participatory elaboration of this plan be drawn up, with far broader measures than those proposed in this GNP, which do not look bad to us, but which, in any case, seem to us to be partial. We think we should go beyond these superficial measures, which are sometimes measures that care more about the body and less about the engine. Because a real youth emancipation plan for access to housing necessarily goes by developing a completely anti-thetical housing policy that is being done, both from the Government of the State and from the Board of Galicia, that are converting or that have managed to convert over these years access to housing into an inaccessible luxury for most of the population and a commodity, into a speculative business for the benefit of a few. We need, therefore, legislative changes, changes in planning, changes in housing law, mortgage law, urban lease law -- some of them have already been targeted, but these changes must be made decisively. There has to be a determined and public intervention in the housing market to really change this policy of absolutely abusive increase in housing prices which, in the case of rental, in the last three years in Galicia has reached more than eight percent, and which places, for example, the price of housing in the cities of Greece, at this time, above the four hundred euros, which is absolutely inaccessible to a large part of the working population, and let's not say to the most punished, which is the juvenile population or women. It's essential to mobilize those 300 thousand empty homes, a large part of which are owned by the bank, by the Sareb and also by those Voitre funds, which are the main Greek real estate and which are speculating about this situation. It's also crucial to increase public spending in housing, both in the state and in Galicia; also to put an end to the defiances, that drama that continues to bleed a part of the population, and of course also to develop fiscal measures. And the real key, at any rate, to a true youth emancipation policy is another economic policy. Of course, we can put patches, we can put palliative measures, but, really, here it's about making a completely different economic policy than what's being done and what's been done in the last ten years. We must reverse all those cuts and the theft of rights and incomes that the working class has suffered over the years, beginning with the annulment of labour reforms — of all labour reforms — and also with the exception of that dogma of budgetary stability, which is enshrined in the Constitution. We must act in all those areas to fight for truth, from public policies and economic policies, against this galloping increase in inequality, against this galloping increase in the accumulation of wealth by a few — against the interests of the majority — and against this deprotection that is leading to poverty, which is also leading to the exploitation of labor and precariously thousands and thousands of people and, above all, young men and women. This is the real economic policy of youth emancipation that defends BNG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u163	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Mrs. Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u164	Good morning. The situation in which the poorly managed crisis has left the most vulnerable sectors in our country rosy. This initiative by Mrs Pierres, who was, in principle, only a reminder of one of the many declarations of political intent to be collected in press headlines — which seems to be the only thing that, unfortunately, concerns the Government of the Union — has moved through an amendment to a specific proposal for a housing plan for youth which, unfortunately, we think has a lot to talk about, and that there is a need for a more extensive debate. But, in any case, it seems very good to put on the table the serious structural problems that exist in Galicia to deal with the responsibility of access to housing; not only the housing of youth, but also other sectors unprotected by the crisis. And it's just that we really don't just talk about buying a housing anymore, but about having a roof and a possibility, of renting itself, too. So, as Mr Feijóo has already commented during the debate on the state of autonomy this year, next year—we understand that what will start in twelve days— Galicia will be one of the communities with less taxes to buy habitual housing used, cheaper in the case of young people, large families and people with disabilities. On this subject in particular, we compare the current tax burden on the purchase of housing used in relation to the whole of the autonomous communities, Galicia is among the communities with the highest burden — 10% of property transmission tax and 1.5% of documentary legal acts; 11.5% in total — with respect to other communities, such as Euskadi or Navarra — with 4.5% or 6.5%, respectively. In practical terms, a young man or a young woman from Greece who wants to buy a housing used in Galicia of one hundred and fifty thousand euros will pay eleven thousand and seven hundred euros more for taxes to buy a housing used in Euskadi. Then, the measure will do nothing more, if applied, than sell as an extraordinary measure — i.e., for collectives specifically fragile and especially hit by the crisis — something that other communities are entitled to all citizenship. A propaganda measure and, at the moment, without a fixed date, as demonstrated by this initiative — and that it presented — which reminds us of the no-one concern this executive had with regard to the problem of access to housing, both of purchase and — not so much! — of rental, as is clear from the numerous initiatives that have taken place since our group and from other opposition groups on this lack of political measures. But the 2018 State Housing Plan provided our community of eighty-two billion euros, increasing by thirty-six million euros to the previous departure, so the Board will have more than one hundred six million euros for housing, which largely impact on access to housing, but also on enhancing rural recovery, since it includes aid for populations of up to five thousand inhabitants, and we hope that this government will provide not only help for the purchase, but also with roads, public transport and public health and education services and essential quality to establish the population in this rural that is disappearing. We would also like to see the initiatives and aid no longer repeat what happened in the 16th October with the aid and in the Resolution of 27 September establishing the regulatory bases for the housing purchase aid of the State Housing Plan 2018-2021: in the resolution, which was provided with a total amount of EUR 2,200 000 and financed from self-funding funds of the Autonomous Community, with aid up to EUR 10 000 800 per aid — i.e., if the limits were exhausted, it would give aid to the acquisition of eighteen housing, which is an insignificant impact within the country — so insufficient was this budget to promote the acquisition of rural housing in the municipalities of five thousand inhabitants that the decision of the aid was published on October 16th, and already on the 24th of the same month published the resolution of credit exhaustion. More information: from the budget start on the housing of 2018 budgets, only 41% of the share of access to housing was executed, and the total fund share of housing rehabilitation and quality was not executed; the negative balance was 17 million euros. Another data: while 2,758 protected dwellings were completed in 2008, only twelve in 2017. More data: unemployment among children under the age of twenty-five — according to EPA data — is 31%. And another even more sad and fruity data of your policies: we're on the queue in the capacity to emancipate our boys and girls, as Mrs. Pierres has already said. Last November, the Youth Council Emancipation Observatory indicated that 37.6% of the Greeks aged between the ages of thirty and thirty-four years did not become emancipated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u165	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u166	I'm done. We're going to support this initiative, of course, but we have to really think about how many of those young and young people, single parenting families, people with functional or intellectual diversity, pensioners, etc., will actually solve the purchase of a housing by simply reducing a tax. It seems good to do a deeper study and do much more than cosmetic measures to solve the serious access to housing, on purchase or rent, while the risk of the real estate bubble comes back. The right to a decent housing is not guaranteed in our country, and there does not seem to be measures to solve it. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Socialist ladies and gentlemen Bará, socialist ladies, this initiative did not start by chance. Logically, it's gone because... I'm going to read them and you'll draw conclusions. It says the statement of reasons — why it is necessary to read everything, and the initiative is complete, including the statement of reasons — "During the debate of the state of autonomy this year 2018 President Núñez Feijóo announced..." — what happens?, do you mind reading what you yourself wrote?, or have you not read it? [[Murmurs.]] No, I'm telling the socialist gentlemen and the socialist ladies, who seem to bother them -- "that since next year Galicia..." — the president here, on this stage, in the debate of the autonomy held in October --...will be one of the least taxed communities to buy a habitual housing used and the cheapest in the case of young people, large families and people with disabilities." [[Murmurs.]] And the initiative, at the first point — in the resolution paragraph — said: "Concrete and implement, within a month, the announced measures to reduce taxes to the purchase of habitual housing used, as well as for young people, large families and persons with disabilities." Yesterday, at this very plenary session yesterday afternoon, the Law was passed on tax and administrative measures where they are implemented, and it takes not a month to put these measures into effect, but on January 1st they are effective. Those measures, of course, were adopted without a single claim or amendment from the Socialist Group — not a single amendment was introduced to that law, to Article 4 thereof — and with the vote against the whole opposition. And those measures that affect young people and girls in our community are, among other things, the following, and in addition to those that were before, a number of them are added. And from January 1st Galicia becomes the autonomous community of Spain where it has less tax burden on the purchase of used housing; yes, the cheapest to buy a used housing. So, Mrs Torregrosa, you can hardly afford EUR 11,000 more for property transmission tax in Galicia than in the Basque community, when here a young man would pay three thousand euros: per 100 thousand, three thousand euros, because it is three thousand euros from 1 January — four thousand right now — it can hardly be eleven thousand. I'm just telling you the accounts because 3% is that for now. Taxes in Galicia from January 1st. Capital transmissions: the general type is 10%; in normal housing it is 8%. Starting in 2019, January 1st, it goes to 7% for the whole world's standard housing type. For young children under thirty-six years old, numerous families and disabilities were 4% and it was 3%. And if it's in rural housing, it's free; zero euros is paid. Documented legal acts and formalization of mortgages for the purchase of housing: the general type is 1.50%; habitual housing, 1%; for young people under thirty-six years old, disabled and numerous families, 0.5%; in rural areas, exempt. Find communities where it's cheaper. Tell me. And by the way, what I was saying to them, was approved by the vote against you, and they tabled an amendment to this proposal, clearly removing that point. Because, in fact, it wasn't a press headline, not much less, but, as it used to make the Government of the Feijó Cloud Board, it's to fulfill what it promises. And so on January 1st — not any day of the year, but on day 1st of the year — the first day of the year is fulfilled. It's a fact. It's not "yes, yes." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You complained a lot yesterday, Madam, about the amendments made by the People's Party to the law, to the law itself, and, curiously, you amend a PNL, but, well... Besides, these are not only the measures that are being taken at the Union for the acquisition of housing for young people and other groups, but also various measures are available to facilitate access to housing. So, there are the rental aids that manage the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo: there is the general type, which is 40% of the cost of rent, and there is a game exclusively for young people that is up to 50% of the cost of rent — this is actually derived from the State Housing Plan. State housing plan, by the way, which is approved by the Government of the People's Party, by the Government of Mariano Rajoy. He has done nothing in this sense the current socialist government or the tidal co-governance, we can and all united — I don't know how many — there are there. Well, all these gentlemen... because in every place they call themselves in a way, what do you want me to tell them? [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Everyone's being the same -- I suppose -- tides, we can, like... you'll know. [[Murmurs.]] Well, what's clear is that they've been in government for six months, and for now, the only thing they've done is to take out a real decree -- that for that they're real -- where rent contracts are passed from three to five years. [[Murmurs.]] Those are the star measures that are currently being done, but, well... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u169	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u170	I continue with the help — already mentioned, Mr President — of the Board for the purchase of housing by the young people. See: purchase aid for specific purchases for children under thirty-five years of age, also for access to specific public promotion housing and exclusively for children under 35 years of age, as well as for others of an intergenerational nature for children under thirty-five years of age and over sixty-five years of age. There are additional measures for other groups, and what I want to tell you is that the investment for next year's exercise, the real investment in housing policies, increases by almost 10%; in particular, by 9.67%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u171	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u172	...the own funds for housing. And as examples of housing policies, of course, it's not to put En Marea's or PSOE's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u174	...where public housing is sold...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u175	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u176	...as is the case of Vigo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u178	...and in the Coruña, In Marea dedicates the money to buying homes for friends.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u179	Thank you, Mr. Castineira, your time is up. Thank you. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u180	Mr. Castineira, you didn't tell me if you'd disappointed him. The truth is, I'm disappointed about that, too. [[Applause]] I want to remind you that this self-amendment was registered on Thursday 13. They had enough time for all groups to analyze and dialogue, in any case, possible transactions — that is, to begin with. And on the other hand, I don't think you've heard that these tax measures of what you're talking about, and what we're talking about, appear to be insufficient; and that the state housing plan, in addition, needs to be complemented. That's what I said, too. And the information is fundamental to knowing rights and measures, and not tracking on the websites the possible aids, which, as I said before, are most of them, except for the state plan, expired. You tell me about access to public housing on Thursday. Do you mean the eight that were done last year? You mean those eight? That there's a house reserved for Thursday. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] They first exposed the general measures, also exposed significant data from the emancipation of young Greeks. But we're also going to talk about the consequences, and about three data to talk about those consequences. Of the 65,000 homes of young people under the age of thirty-five who live together, 7% live with the parents of one of the two. This is 9,150 young Greeks who can't be emancipated by living together. And this has to be added to two more data. While in 1976 — the year in which the honourable Member spoke to them — we were born in Galicia 44,840 children, in 2017 we registered only 18,312 births; a 60% birth decline. And to this day, what are the mother's ages where the highest number of births is concentrated? Well, between 34 and 36. And what was that age in 1976? Between 22 and 24 years old. Reading is clear: beyond the population's decline, half of the young Welsh people don't think they're mothers until they're no longer young. They don't think they're mothers until they stop being young, and that's terrible. I do not know if they realize that this is the most dramatic result of the failure of demographic policies, employment policies, conciliation policies, co-responsibility policies, of all policies. The perception of youth is that motherhood and paternity is something that needs to be distanced from time, not by an unconscious or capricious decision. [[Applause]] It's the decision to be aware that the optimal situation is not enough to stop being young. And I'm very afraid that, with the model of society that we're addressing, in which every day will be more the collective of older and less that of Thursday, the problem of parenting and parenting will be another factor that will prevent many monomantal couples or families from having children. As far as parents and mothers are now, we're growing up every day and biologically, we're skipping a generation. Let's think a lot about this, because if today's a real problem, it'll be even more pronounced in the future. That's why we believe that this emancipation plan for Thursday is not necessary, it's essential. We must encourage and help promote all measures in housing policy, but also, in fact, in a transversal way, in other areas, to promote the emancipation and independence of Thursdays. Their well-being, their stability, will allow us to draw a better future for all. Anyway, I appreciate the support, too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u181	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u182	... understanding the reluctance shown by the groups, and I want to remind you that this self-amendment was carried out with a purposeful intention and with the conviction that certain themes cannot wait; maximum when the speed of the set-up of the measures of this government is more like that of the Tomasa turtle...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u184	...that of Correcaminos. In any case, I invite all groups, if today this initiative is not approved...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u185	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u186	...to move this debate to another plenary meeting. Thank you very much and, for my part, nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u187	Thank you. We greet the 4th ESO students at the Isle of Ons Institute in Bueu, and also their teachers, who are here and who accompany us. Welcome to Parliament and Merry Christmas to all of them too. And now we move on to the next non-law proposition. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the amendments to the regulation bases reflected in the Resolution of 17 March 2017 of the General Secretariat of Equality, for the granting of the periodic allowance for women suffering from gender violence, as well as the one to be applied in the resolution that you said for that purpose by 2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u188	There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u189	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u190	Good morning to all and to all. His lordships already know, but the audience who accompany us certainly won't. Today we start this plenary of the Greek Parliament with a minute of silence for the victims of macho violence that occurred in 2018. We think the symbolic is all right, it's necessary. The president also mentioned the wish that by 2019 we should not make a single minute of silence. But we understand that we need much more than minutes of silence, much more than warm bonds and much more than institutional declarations. And that's what this initiative is about. [[Applause]] Because we reaffirm ourselves in a fundamental idea that seems very important to us, that is to increase and improve the resources that exist and to think of new ones is what will make us move forward against macho violence. That's why today we have a proposal that basically consists of the extension of aid to women victims of violence. On the one hand, an improvement in the content that they perceive, and on the other hand, the creation of a new framework that allows more women to benefit from this help and therefore expands to the audience something. This way we'll have more women who will be able to find a way out here and we'll also have some help that will be bigger and will therefore be better. Yesterday in this House, the budget process ended, but nobody escapes that many of the issues we talk about and that we debate in this House, many of the decisions we make to improve people's lives, it won't be a reality if they don't have economic support, if they don't have monetary support that converts those agreements, those good wishes, actually. And so since the BNG we will not stop insisting on a reflection, and we have many rights that are legislate, that are collected in the legislative literature, but with its mere statement we will not succeed in putting them into practice. So to make real that fundamental right to be alive and to be free, it takes much more than convictions and good wishes. To change something as deep as patriarchy and as that culture of rape we need a lot more, because if we don't, just with utterances we won't get that essential social transformation. Ladies and gentlemen, in this country we have - we have said so many times - a law against masquerading violence which is absolutely pioneering and of which we must be proud and proud, even though the People's Party has underdeveloped it in aspects that would be as important as psychological care in primary health. It's a law that, more than a decade after its approval, remains vanguard in many respects. But we think that shouldn't lead us to conformism. We have to ask ourselves what we failed at, how we could improve its application, how we could go further. And we should do it not only when there's a macho murder, not only when it's November 25, but every day of the year. And that paused reflection is where this proposal comes from to improve its application, because we think we have to make an effort to be up to it, to be aware of the more than 55,000 complaints that have been made in the last decade; to be up to Magdalena Moreira, Maria Judith Martíns, Ana Belén Varela Ordonez, so that these are the last names we remember. We must also be aware of all this violence that is still silent. [[Applause]] And to give full attention to victims who are powerful, there is one aspect that is decisive, which is the economic aspect. And, precisely, there are a lot of questions about our law that make me pretend about it. In the general principles, the importance of the economy is collected as a central element that has to help get out of the spiral of violence and avoid the revitalization of women. Also in our article 3 of the law, we raise, in an absolutely pioneering manner in the state, economic violence as one of the forms of male violence. And, in order to give effect to that mandate, the law itself includes cross-cutting measures and also a chapter, chapter V, of an economic nature, of measures of an economic nature. And precisely today we want to develop a little bit more and advance in Article 39, of periodic benefits, and take a look at this situation that helps to start reversing the cuts that the People's Party has applied. Because it has to be remembered that one of the first steps they took when they arrived at the Government of Galician Union was to cut these periodic aids. This is an example that, indeed, when laws are violated, when conscious efforts are made not to develop them, it is when the system becomes that pack we want to fight. In these years, there is no doubt that the strength of feminism has marked one before and one after. Feminist Rebecca Solnit recalls in her book Hope in the Darkness that often at the time of living social movements, events, we are not aware or underestimate their importance. I'm sure when we look back in a few years, we'll see how this March 8 was absolutely decisive. I am sure that, after that collective force, the People's Party would not dare take a similar step as it did in the past, but this must also lead us to a reflection: that, when we look back, we will have to see whether this Parliament and whether the Government of Galicia met or not. And we think that, for now, the government of Nuñez Feijóo has a suspension. And with this proposal I could make an effort to raise a note. You have to be up to these moments we're living, because it's also true that, over time, laws require new impulses. This is precisely the kind of issues we are talking about today, the periodic aid, which has already given BNG a new impetus by bringing to this Parliament the proposal to lick them by law on 365 days of the year. We had to do it twice to get the People's Party to get out of the crap. But the truth is, no one today questions that this was an important step. I'm convinced that if there's generosity to accept this, it'll end up the same. What we propose is basically to amend Article 4 of the regulatory bases for the granting of periodic benefits to women who suffer from gender-based violence in two ways. We want to include, first of all, a proposal for a 30% linear increase, at least. We need to be aware that women's discrimination in the economic and labour sphere is structural, it's structural and it's cultivation broth so it's more difficult to get out of the abuse. Therefore, the help must be sufficient; otherwise, it will simply be a patch. We must bear in mind that these years have increased the beauty of life and that the aid remains frozen. And a 30%, said so, abstractly, may seem a lot, but it's not at all, and I'm going to set an example. A woman who earns less than an IPREM, who's in the 537 euro, and who has a child, is entitled to a help of some 650 euros. We think that woman might have an income below that 500 euros, but that lower income might be zero euros. So, how can one live with dignity having to assume with that fill what is meant to feed on two mouths, pay rent, go to the dentist, pay the bill of light — that doesn't stop going up — etc.Is that what you're talking about? With the increase that we propose would be around 190 euros more, it would reach 850, which is not a fortune, but, of course, those 200 euros plus could make the difference so that fewer people would end up falling into exclusion. And what we do is it's a forecast, besides, realistic, worked and grounded, and I also say it doesn't fill our aspirations, because the threshold of what we left in 2009 was higher for these aids. So let's make it clear that it does not fill our aspirations but that we do it as a gesture of assignment to seek a step forward, because that only one woman would be benefited by these issues would be a satisfaction to the BNG. As I say, we do a realism-based calculation of the number of beneficiaries last year, which is more or less stable over time, which is always among 420-430 people. And we calculated that with approximately one and a half million, it would be possible not only this measure of 30% linear increase but also to create a new frame, a new plot for incomes between 1.5 IPREM and 2 IMPREM, which is not the fortune. We're talking about rents of between 800 and 1,075 euros, which will share your lordships that should also deserve our attention. They deserved it before, but it was the People's Party who cut the top sections. During the crisis, we must remember that it was women and equality policies who paid the cut most. [[Applause]] And besides, if we don't assume to increase this banana, what we're doing is moving a very dangerous prejudice, which is that mistreatment is associated with exclusion and poverty. And that's radically a lie, because male violence has only one profile, which is that it has no profile. Any woman may be likely to be a victim of macho violence. I'm done, ladies, because I'm out of time. We think that this same week, in which we saw near our country the consequences of this culture of rape, in which we are all shuddered and all of us share minutes of silence and anger, we have to think that we are talking about human rights, that we are putting a proposal on the table that goes to the most frequent abuse and murder, which is what happens in affective circles, in family circles and so on. And that, therefore, to help, with something that could be less than two million euros, many women so that they can get out of that situation is a responsibility that is of all society, but starting with this Parliament itself. I therefore hope that everyone will vote in favour of this initiative and that no one would dare say this week that this is too much, when we talk about human rights. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u192	Hello, good morning. To begin with, Mrs. Presas, I'm surprised at the political hypocrisy they're talking to here. How can you not ask the president of the Pontevedra Parliament — you are government partners with them — to attend to the women victims of gender-based violence who are in Vigo, in the streets, women with children in charge, that she, who is mayor-in-chief in the Vigo Council, is leaving them in the street and who have no housing? Why don't they have housing? Because they don't want to support these people. Because it is the Junta of Galicia that has the program of empty housing — from Junta — and many of them have to go to other municipalities to have a decent housing. Please tell him we don't listen to you in the Pontevedra Deputy, claiming it to your government partners and Mrs. Silva. [[Applause]] I'm not going to do demagogy, as you're doing with this, just not. It's something we have every day in the press, unfortunately, this situation we're living in. I want to invite you to have a meeting, a meeting to end with the statement of submission and to reach an agreement, to reach the Greek covenant, which is what we have to do, which requires society to be able to stand up to it, to give it solutions and to have a great pact of all the political forces in this House. I propose that they stop bringing disbanded initiatives in which they ask magicians to do just as they do in the letter. Those illusions are just that, because there's no rigour for it, there's no rigor for it. And then I'll explain why. He asks for more money for the victims when the entire scientific base, the viewers and the reports show that it's not the solution. More money is not what they need, and then I'll explain why. To give easy solutions, Mrs. Presas, complex problems is to give bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. To defend economic protectionism, the policy of the grant, is not the way against inequality; if it is necessary, but not enough. As far as economic violence is concerned, I'm going to give you some data, Mrs Presas — what you were talking about as if it were really the biggest problem. Look, the 2015 macroeconomic survey of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality — which I don't say — which indicates in that report is that only 3.3% of the women who report, or who were murdered, had economic dependence on their partners. What does that mean? Most of them had jobs or were forming. Most of their couples gave them money for home expenses in case they didn't have a job, and they themselves said they could make decisions about the family economy. With which, the conclusion is clear. We often see in the media women who have no work, who are in a precarious situation, but that's only the tip of the iceberg. And there's resources, and the Galician Union, of course, holds them. The Galician Nationalist Block calls for a 30% rise in the accounts to be perceived. And I want to tell you a little bit about what's happening in Galicia in the case of a woman who has denounced, from minute one, her partner for male violence. Of course, you have to have a report from both the basic social worker or the autonomous administration, and, for victims of trafficking or sexual exploitation, a report from the state's bodies and security forces. From that moment on, they have economic aid. When you have a less IPREM perception, it's 600 euros. Increases the count by 50 euros depending on the number of children they have or the degree of disability, up to 800 euros. What about women who have economic income above IPREM 1.5? For they have an account of 300 euros, which can rise to 50 euros depending on the degree of disability, minor children in charge or children in family shelter; from 300 euros can reach 500 euros. But not only do women who have no resources and who are victims of masculine violence have access to that. In Galicia, in addition to that, they have a social lease program. What does that mean? It means they have 200 euros a month that they pay directly to the Galician board to the tenant, and that can be for a year and extendable up to three years. Besides, they have a lot of access and a lot of help from those women who report. I encourage you here to denounce in case you have no resources, because you're going to be sheltered, you're going to be sheltered. Look, more free accesses: children's schools, university fees, tuition of institutes, textbooks, school lunch, psychological care, legal care, of course health care, prosecutors, youth and summer camps, health care, foster home or emergency centre, free taxi and transport service, interpreter in any language and interpreter for people who need it for accessibility. As we see, there is protection at all levels in our autonomous community. Of course, there's a bond in the electricity tariff, which provides 50 percent to the Galician Union, 40 percent to the state and 10 percent to the electricity companies. And what happened, what is happening here in this Parliament? We have tabled a proposal from all the groups, which we unanimously support, to the state pact against violence against men and women. All political groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u194	I'm going to finish. Point 12 speaks of economic resources. What have we decided all political groups for that economic contribution in point 12 of this pact? That the Greek model be copied at the state level, that the model of the economic resources we have in place and that we have in our own autonomous community, access to aid immediately, the reduction of time in receipt of aid — from minute one to minute one for people without resources — and the counter-restraint of economic consequences once the complaint has been lodged.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u195	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, it must not be such a bad model when we ask for a "copy and catch" for the rest of Spain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u197	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u198	Thank you, President. Mrs. Míguez, the truth is that there has never been a more equal MP like the Deputy of Pontevedra and Mrs. Silva, as much as they care about them, as much as they care about them. The Vigo Town Hall has been paying attention to the woman you've been commenting on since 2011, with dining aid, with help from books, with help from renting, with social check. [[Applause]] What's going on here is that you can't pretend to be the only county in which you rule, where your Equality Conceler even criminalized the feminist strike. [[Murmurs.]] The Socialist Party—aside from Mrs Míguez there is another world—will support, as it could not be otherwise, this initiative, which today presents the BNG and which seeks to improve the economic conditions of the victims, and also of the minors in charge, so that they can take the step out of the complicated circle of male violence, especially the one suffered in the field of home. [[Applause]] And of the women killed in 2017 only 19% had filed a previous complaint; a fact that is sometimes used as a recrimination to the victims instead of asking what it is going to take so that there are so few complaints, so that the victims do not feel safe enough and supported by the system and society as to ask for help to get out of their hell. A woman does not complain for many reasons, as many women as there are. And a woman is also murdered for many reasons. But the main, and most of all we have to warn ourselves, is when it's because of his gender, as was the case with Laura Luelmo. She did make her complaint, she did it March 8 with the rest of Spain's women, and that we will continue to do as long as we live in inequality with men and as long as our security passes through the loss of our freedoms. [[Applause]] Women do not denounce for many reasons, I said, they do not denounce for shame, for the psychological deterioration caused by the continued abuse, they do not denounce for fear of the aggressor, for fear of not being called, for fear of the judicial process, because they do not want to harm their aggressor, because they just want to live quiet. Women don't report because they feel that the criminal system is not neutral. Women do not denounce because on many occasions the criminal response to male violence is turned against them, such as the myth of false complaints, which, despite the continued denial of various studies and judicial reports, generalize suspicions against women. Women do not complain because they still perceive how difficult it is to believe violence when there are no bruises or bruises. Women don't complain because many aggressors use the convictions, or cross-denominations, to withdraw or file criminal cases against them. The reasons are several, I said. I insist and will insist, as Mrs. Presas has also said, that there is not a single victim profile, that not all women victims are economically and socially vulnerable, because many are women of great education with more than enough income and even greater than those of their aggressor. But it's true that the help that needs to be activated with these women is very different from that of the most vulnerable women. Because for the latter, for those who don't have any sort of income, or very low income, there's a major reason, which is what stops them from reporting their aggressor, and it's the conviction that doing it will mean without economic support, without any sustained support, which makes them see an abyss almost worse than being abused, especially when there's minors by means of it. And there are many groups who have denounced the dangerous contribution of the consequences of the economic crisis and labour reform to the escalation of violence against women who suffer especially from unemployment and work insecurity. In recent years, there has been a decline in complaints, not by a decrease in this type of violence, but by the crisis situation, which further aggravates the economic dependence on the victims and prevents them from putting an end to that situation. But it is this government's job to ensure that they avoid that extreme, as well as to get more women out of the situation of violence. And measures like bonuses for recruiting victims are not very positive. The year with most beneficiaries throughout Spain was 2015, with 836 contracts, which is totally insufficient. The initiative that is taking us therefore takes all the sense, both in the part in which it envisages the creation of a new line of beneficiaries, which includes women with income between 1.5 and 2 times the IPREM, but also in which it considers a linear upward of the accounts to be perceived. We therefore believe that these are necessary measures and that, in any case, they will help overcome that brake by denouncing whoever is taking your life. Therefore, Mrs. Presas, our support for this proposal. And for our part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u200	Thank you, President. The truth is, I had a ready intervention, and I have to change it. Because, listening to the arguments of the People's Party, they never cease to surprise me. The truth is, I always think not, that there will never be an argument worse than that of the previous session. And we're always surprised, the truth, for bad. Today we hear the story of the voicer of the People's Party, and everything's fine, the help is enough, the theme of housing is sunny, women don't need any more help, accompaniment... everything's fine. I really wonder how they can make this speech while they say that we have to make a Greek pact against macho violence. I think there's a total agreement that you're not doing enough, that's not enough. They're still killing women, all women are still victims of violence. But today the spokeswoman of the People's Party said everything is enough and everything is fine. Why don't they talk about the failure of the empty housing program — because here they suck at some programs that are totally insufficient, which are not responding at all to the needs of the population of Greece —? And why don't they talk, when concrete proposals are brought — in this case the Galego Nationalist Block — about the proposal being debated? He didn't give a single argument to reject this initiative, some real argument that he really talked about why they don't talk about the counties. They say there's a lot of women who don't have economic dependence. Of course, there is an absolute agreement that there is no victim woman profile, that there are many women who have no economic dependence. Well, there are women who do, there are women who receive help. And what is being put on the table today is that the help for many of these women is not enough. They said concrete tales, and he didn't give a single argument to reject this initiative, not a single argument to say why he doesn't want to go up. We're already leaving out all those women who need other resources, other help, but not economic help. In this case we are debating a specific question. And we also don't understand why they refuse us to betray initiatives. As much as bothers them, we will continue to bring about initiatives to improve specific issues. Because we agree that masculine violence is a structural problem, in which solutions go far beyond this Parliament, but there are also concrete issues that improve women's lives. As the spokeswoman of the Galician Nationalist Block said, with which a single woman could be benefited from this reform, because for us it would be more than enough. Then we also have to think about it. These days I think we all have in mind Laura, her family, her friends, that we have in mind all the women killed with macho violence, being aware that this is only a part of it. Unfortunately it's the most cruel part, the most visible part, but unfortunately all women live with inequalities and violence in our lives. And we also find it very disgusting that there are certain political parties that are taking advantage of these moments — political parties that are their counterparts in the Congress of Deputies, political parties with which they are also weaving alliances — to talk about measures in which they are interested in many things, but which they do not think about women. Because what we need is prevention, what we need is action to prevent no woman from suffering violence, no more punishment. And to talk about prevention, to talk about public policies that talk about teaching, about measures to support women who suffer from inequalities, we don't talk about that. To make political opportunism by taking advantage of the misfortunes and the difficult moments that we have gone through, for that, they always have time. That is why we believe that this is an initiative that obviously – and in addition said the very spokesperson of the Galego Nationalist Block – is a very specific paragraph. It's not enough. I wish we had concrete recipes, I wish this Parliament could legislate to put an end to macho violence. Unfortunately we know that it is not, that we need a change in society as a whole. But, of course, there are little changes that will help. And in this case economic violence is a real problem — which today, too, half denied, although I thought there was a deal in which many women unfortunately suffer economic violence, economic dependence. And that must be done because it is also a link that must be broken so that no woman has to continue to live with the man — this violent case — because of that economic issue. As we say, we believe that this is a positive measure that provides a solution to a very specific problem. But what we have to be clear is that no woman who needs it can be without help. And right now we're talking about expanding the aid to a range that's totally understandable. No exaggeration requested. It's being requested that the aid be superior within a range. I'm not going to repeat the accounts either, we're not asking for millions of euros for each woman. It really hurts us enough that, instead of taking advantage of a debate like this to give some argument, like, maybe, that we have to go up to the count...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u201	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u202	...or if you have to emphasize one question or another, if you take advantage of the five minutes of the intervention — and I'm done — to discuss everything but the problem we are dealing with today. We will vote in favour of this initiative and, of course, as much as bothers them, we will continue to bring concrete initiatives that can improve women's lives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u203	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. On the part of the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Presas Bergantinos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u204	Well, I thank En Marea and the Socialist Party for their constructive approach and support. The truth is that I do my own Mrs. Quinteiro's words when I say I don't believe. I'm really always surprised. I make an effort to contain myself to come here and stick to the subject, to explain argumentably our proposal, and the lady of the People's Party, to vary, comes here to whisper, apart from saying a lot of falsehoods, a lot of falsehoods to hide what's going on. What bothers them is that you have no political initiative, what bothers them is that it is the BNG who brings to this House proposals that you are not able to totally reject because they know we're right. [[Applause]] They know we're right! Yeah, don't deny it with your head. It is that she is absolutely hypocritical when we all hear witnesses in the Equality Commission, when there is still nothing we have to do an institutional visit to crime, and when we see — and we all know some case — that there are no available resources. Indeed, it will never be enough, but this is a perfectly measured proposal, perfectly argued. If I had bothered you a bit, Mrs. Míguez, in doing the numbers, I'd see. But what bothers you is that, they have to put the fan in order to conceal their absolute lack of political initiative. Ten years of Government of Galician Union and zero legislative initiatives on equality, nothing more than saying! [[Applause]] The only approved was by impulse of the BNG, a modification precisely to shield these aids. I'm also surprised that you come with that speech when you tabled an amendment whereby you would be willing to approve a part of our initiative, which is the creation of that new category. Because by his speech you seem to have come here saying that little less than women victims of macho violence are lined up and that economic aid is not necessary. Little less than that's what they come here to say. No one said from this rostrum... I'd appreciate it if you'd shut up a little bit, because it's a little complicated to synthesize something so important in such a short time. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] No one said the abuse was because he had no money. Precisely what we're saying is that having the aid so limited to such low income thresholds is the prejudice that you still have that, indeed, ill-treatment is associated with exclusion. Because you'll tell me what arguments there are on the table to say that the help proposed on this initiative... that would be a new plot, because we believe that people who have 805 euros of income are not multimillionaires. They know perfectly well what the situation is with women victims of macho violence, who often have to get out of their homes and without their belongings. You know perfectly well that this is the case, and that all the resources that are put in place are few.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u205	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u206	We are not bringing here a populist initiative with an absolutely impossible increase, but we have measured terms, as explained in the initiative. This reflects also the moral breakdown of a government whose economic decisions go in the opposite direction of what women need. I used to talk about the Arope rate and we saw exactly how women are the ones who are most impoverished with the exit of the recession. Above all, they can't hear, and no longer the least...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u207	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u208	Just one question, president. You talked about making a pact. Tell the president of the Galician Union! The last thing I know is that this gentleman publicly says that there is no need for any pact in Galicia for male violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u209	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. On the amendment of the PP, I understand you don't accept it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u210	On the amendment, we would be willing to incorporate it as an addition, so that we can vote on the point...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u212	If I may explain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u213	No, it's all right, it's just you've been a minute and it's a bit high. We're going very hard of time, and time knows, from the beginning, what it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u214	If I'd been a president and had his group shut up when they interrupted me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u215	Don't worry they didn't interrupt her. Are you willing to accept the amendment? [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Concepción Burgo López and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the interventions and works denounced on the Primitive and French roads by the various associations of defense of the paths of Santiago, as well as with the projects and the works of conditioning and improvement that are carried out on the Way
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u216	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u217	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Burgo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Since Mr. Feijóo decided that the leitmotiv of the second part of his legislation was going to be Xacobeo, we're used to hearing grandloquent statements of all kinds about this event. The Councillor for Culture and Tourism said that Jacob will be an inexhaustible source of illusion and pride. Jacob also sees Mr. Counsellor as a unique opportunity to transform the country. And President Feijóo doesn't go behind him and says this Xacobeo is going to change Galicia's image and presence in the world. In the meantime, we have millions and millions more. And every time there's a different number of millions. All the delegates in the various provinces, at least once a week, do a press round saying they're going to invest a million; another one says one and a half, another... Well!, it's a really impressive event. That's right, we probably don't know very well what it's going to consist of. It's the same in constant festivals of more than three million euros given to the finger and in an absolutely opaque way. But, in any case, the Jacob—which if it is something very serious, and we, of course, bet on it and its impulse—is much more than propaganda, than empty words of content but very beautiful. And it's even much more than promotion. For Xacobeo we must start from the base, from the protection of heritage, which is precisely what makes Xacobeo — this singular cultural heritage — different from any other event of similar characteristics. Of course, it's what separates you and the absolute difference in any other event, from hiking, sports or other kind of activity. And the first thing to protect are the paths, logically, which is where you walk, the paths; which, by the way, the Way itself, the traces of the Way, are protected. Some are BIC, others, like the French Way and the primitive Way, they are, moreover, the heritage of humanity, that is, they have the maximum protection, but despite having this protection, which largely makes them unique, we are accustomed to hearing complaints that are making different and many Jacobean associations against what the Tourism Agency is doing on this path, which, with the excuse of maintenance and conservation works — which, of course, must be done — is seriously changing the path, the physionomy, the historical and natural characteristics of the paths, is changing its traditional identity and is emptying from defining elements all these paths. As I said, many associations have been reporting changes in these roads for years, but it is mainly, recently, centred on the French Way and the Northern Way and the primitive Way, which is twice as serious, because the primitive Way, in addition, is mainly characterized by its own traditional values, especially important and beautiful landscapes. Let's see some of these interventions to find out what we're talking about. In 2016 the Foro do Camiño, which brings together about 30 defense organizations of Xacobeo, denounced the use of heavy machinery, bakers, to expand sections of the primitive Way in a path that is documented from the Middle Ages, to expand and organize it in another way. It wasn't a joke, here's the heavy machinery; this is -- it was -- a trace of the primitive, medieval Way, now converted -- as you see -- into a beautiful forest trail. [[Mrs. Burgo López shows a photograph.]] But this isn't just the way it is. At the Fosgrada, in Castroverde, there are also reports of works that have been carried out by changing the path physionomy that are more characteristic of urban contours than of rural contours, and much less protected roads; works such as changing the levels of scraping by performing artificial profiling; rough pavements with gravel, sapphire and concrete; introduction of drains made with concrete; change the width of the shoe by removal of vegetation; seams are made, oesckeys, rocks of lateral walls are withdrawn, cut to aging, even making an unrecognible path. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is what the Tourism Agency considers to be a Santiago Road. [[Mrs. Burgo López shows a photograph.]] This is what was, a traditional path, full of vegetation, and this is how it is; this is a forest trail anywhere; this was protected, this I don't know if we're going to protect it. [[Mrs. Burgo López shows part of the photograph.]] [[Mrs. Burgo López shows the other part of the photograph.]] But the works — which are, of course, documented and which I cannot bring all — are, ladies and gentlemen, like this one. This is the whole shoe of sapphire and such; here, the opening of a bucket where concrete pipes will be put. [[Mrs. Burgo López shows a photograph.]] This is what the Tourism Agency considers. And since Heritage says absolutely nothing about this, which says absolutely nothing, that doesn't say that this can't be done, because it seems that Heritage considers that we have to go to a path of this typology, and end with this — which I had previously taught them — because, in total, this is more difficult to maintain than this. [[Mrs. Burgo López shows a photograph.]] Sure, there's the problems. Throwing sugar and putting down pipes is much easier than rehabilitating the roads, which is what to do. [[Applause]] Works were also denounced by the International Brotherhood of Friends of the Way of Santiago on the French Way, in this case in Paradela, where cement was used in excessive quantities completely transforming the Way; and cement was used, in addition, seems to be above what was in the project; therefore, there is another element here. It seems that no one — the Patrimony, nor does tourism seem to be — is watching what is going on in the streets. What happens at the bottom of all these changes, which are serious property changes? It happens that he's going to Galicia's Union towards a policy of changing historic itineraries looking for a uniformity that turns him into an easy forest track to maintain, break and destroy the millenary trail and alter all the traditional elements. And what's, besides, beneath all this? Well, an absolute change of mind vis-à-vis the Way. The Way is no longer what the Galician Union says and what Feijóo also says with a great deal of speech: the Way — which in this case is true — is spirituality, culture and tradition. No, now what is the Way to Galicia's Union is essentially a road of tourism — the more, the better —, the way to a massive tourism away from the traditional conception of pilgrimages. They want to facilitate mass tourism and not a itinerary of pilgrims. Because, moreover, you will be listening continually as the Union is always referring to the Way as a very important tourist package, as a very important tourist element — which is also so — of impulse. What's going on is that it's not just tourism, not much less. But, of course, it's much easier to sell what you're always wanting to sell to Junta, which is the number of pilgrims; it's much easier to sell that than other elements and the protection of the Way. Because, as you know, Junta is dedicated to accounting for pilgrims. A few months ago we all — but perfectly, all life and work — of the pilgrim three hundred thousand, who is —as I do not know — in this traditional idea of the sixties to count tourists and give a diploma to the tourist two million — as I said the other day. Well, we count pilgrims. But as we count pilgrims — and they can get much better through these asphalted great tracks — we carry the heritage that is of all, and that, by the way, is what gives special meaning to our Way. Because — and finally, President — all of the Jacobean associations are already saying this: the basis of having this idea, the basis of ruining the heritage, what we're going to do is end up completely with the Jacobean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u219	Thank you very much, Mrs Burgo. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u220	Well, I'll be brief to clean up my asperities with the prey. We also understand, in line with what Mrs Burgo said, that the Way of Santiago can and must be a key element in self-esteem, in collective self-knowledge, in care and promotion of culture and others. It should also be an element of territorial cohesion, of teaching our own history and a long and so forth. But on this path there is a key element without which one cannot conceive of a development proper to this era of the Way of Santiago itself, which is the heritage. And we have analyzed that the combination between heritage, the Way of Santiago and Junta de Galicia, because it has been an explosive cocktail, the truth, of which we are increasingly scared. Because it's not just the paradigm of abandonment and lack of constant planning anymore, it's the paradigm of destruction. And the data speak for themselves and they see how there's an absolutely short-term vision that doesn't take the heritage into account as a central pivot; something that neither the emergence of this so-called Specific Culture Counsellor has brought us any correction. The data speaks for themselves. By setting an example, that heading 433A, protecting and promoting the historical, artistic and cultural heritage, accumulated a cut of more than 58 million euros since Mr Feijóo arrived at Galician Union because it is quite illustrative of how, without resources, no great progress can be made in the care and conservation of the heritage. First, because heritage wears out in general; besides, we're talking about a path; now the People's Party is also going to deny that the roads have anything to do with the people who pass over them, but the truth is that it is. Secondly, because in many cases we're talking about the need for an investigation, an analysis, etc., of whether that path is what it was, of whether there was some sort of intervention and not just a practical approach and design nearly the Way agrees with what's more comfortable; that's good for an ordinary road, for a conventional road, but not for the Way of Santiago, which must have historical rigour and which is something that is also denouncing experts. So, therefore, we do a negative assessment of what is happening, particularly with the primitive way. The truth is, we're not surprised at that new technique of sugar and to put cement and so on, because we see it in the Way of Santiago, but we see other examples. I can't resist making a mention of the denunciation of the status of the Monterrei castle walkway, something that the BNG brought to this House itself, which discussed it with the counsellor then still of Teaching and that they denied it to be so. The reality is that time has given us reason and today there is no road, there is a road of cement that looks like an ordinary village and not that it accesses something that is the heritage of our culture. And this is a generalized defeat that in the Way of Santiago takes the palm. I recently mentioned the socialist voicer and we again saw the complaints before Icomos of the loss of traditional identity and the heritage value of the primitive way that the Foro do Camiño made. The Road Forum — which is neither the BNG nor the Socialist Party, nor is In Marea, which are full of more than twenty-five groups defending this Way — denounces something which is very serious, which are the actions of the Galician Tourism Agency itself. I mean, what credibility will the Galician Union have in the face of the defence of heritage and the fulfilment and development of the Heritage Law when it does not do its own duties, because the more it will then go to issues of aggression or abandonment of a private or individual type if it is not able to give an example of its own work? We see that over the course of this time, despite the allegations, despite the update of the report sent to Icomos that have just done these collectives in November, there is no slightest willingness to rectify; so the works continue to take place. I just wanted to finish with a reflection. There's something that concerns these experts, which is that many of these actions can be irreparable, that is, something that we're never going to recover. Last week we saw the photos of the president of the Galician Union and other positions of the People's Party celebrating the XXV anniversary of the UNESCO World Heritage Declaration. And the question should be whether we're meeting and if we had today, just as the Galician Union has the heritage of this country, that statement for the Way of Santiago. We, of course, have serious doubts and will vote in favour of Mrs Burgo's initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u222	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Once again in this House we have an initiative to do wrong to the Council of Galicia with the conservation and maintenance of the Way of Santiago. There have been many occasions on which we denounce aggressive interventions with the heritage, interventions that question the very conservation of the Way of Santiago, of the paths of Santiago, as the heritage of humanity. As has been said here, all the organizations in defense of the Way of Santiago are reporting the wrong and repeated interventions of the Galician Tourism Agency that are leaving a terrible footprint on the different paths of Santiago, in all of them. It's said that we want to have the best Xacobeo in history, you won't regret money in this matter, but what you're doing is throwing cement over and over on the historic paths of the Way of Santiago. Just a few days ago, we denounced one of the last acts in Commission 4 with this image which we believe exemplifies exactly the policy of the Galician Tourism Agency in relation to the Santiago Road; where we had a natural path that respected the environment, the natural route of the Way, we now have cement, cement and concrete. [[Mrs. Chao Pérez shows a photograph.]] That's why from En Marea we're going to support the initiative presented today by the Socialist Party of Galicia. We have seen the 4th Commission denounce for a long time, every time this matter was dealt with, that Heritage is abandoning its functions, washing its hands and letting irresponsible tourism policies destroy Santiago's historic roads, both in terms of landscape and cultural heritage itself. We have already said that these policies of the People's Party are emptying of meaning the Way, leaving it as another tourist attraction, to tell again and again that we have more tourists, again and again pilgrims, without considering the losses that may bring this disparate strategy. We run, as mentioned here, serious risks of loss of identity of the Road itself, serious risks of loss of heritage value of the Road itself. It has already been commented here, it's not opinable, it's not a position of opposition groups, it's a unanimous denunciation repeated by the specialized agencies, by the Road Defense Associations and by international bodies as fundamental to the protection of our heritage as is Icomos, which, as you know, is who sees for the protection of the world heritage. Icomos is warning that the actions of the Board, the Tourism Agency, on Santiago's Way will have serious consequences on the consideration of the Santiago Way. And in the meantime, what does the Galician Union do? Looking to the other side, looking to each other with each of the complaints that are made of aggression to the heritage, of aggression to the Way of Santiago, as is happening in the cases we commented today, as is happening — and we will ask the advisor today — with the project of the Touro mine. We want to insist: the Way of Santiago is a key element of the European and Greek identity. When the PP is harming this path, when the only thing it does is to see a path that brings more and more tourists every year, it's harming what we are and is harming what has to be a source of resources not only at present, but a source of resources for the future. Defending the Way, therefore, is defending a unique heritage. We must insist: we cannot allow the short-sightedness of the wrong policies that bring bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. We want bread for the future. It won't come with only resources to promote Santiago's Way, it won't come with multimillionaire ads for Xacobeo. That's why we need more protection, more conservation, and of course more diversification and commitment to the rehabilitation of the people and villages through the Jacobean paths. It will respect what is all about, to ensure the future of this unique legacy. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u224	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mrs. Burgo, I have to confess to you that every day I am a little more surprised by your lack of rigor. And just one point, a conceptual point for future interventions: please differentiate between Xacobeo and Santiago's Way. And I'm sorry to be so forceful on a day when the president called us to be a little more -- let's say -- "friendly," to which the Christmas spirit had invaded us, and I'm sorry — as he said — to be powerful because we're supposed to be here to build, to move forward, to create a better Galicia. But you're not, you're here to bring a non-law proposition based on newspaper articles, in information without contrasting the news. You are here to bring a proposal that has already been put into substance in Parliament 6th, Mrs Chao, less than a month ago, and you are here to show that you do not know at this point in your political life the functioning of the Public Administration. Because, Mrs. Burgo, the two issues you raise in your non-law proposition are in the law, they are in the Cultural Heritage Act, and of course the Government supported by this majority group, by the People's Party, is a legalist government, fulfilling the law. Article 138, sanctioning procedure, complaints. Obviously, Mrs. Burgo, all allegations that arrive at the Autonomic Administration must and must be dealt with. Article 39, authorization of interventions intended to be carried out in goods of cultural interest, which must be authorised by the body responsible for cultural heritage, such as this case. But I also remind you of Article 7, which establishes an advisory body on specific cultural heritage for the Way of Santiago, the Advisory Council; a plural council, multidisciplinary, cooperative with other institutions and with other administrations: the Galician Council of Culture, the Fegamp, etc.; a council, by the way, already developed by Decree 93/2017, which confers the competences, among which is to know the intervention files of the roads. They're all wrong; you're not. I can understand, Mrs. Burgo, that Mrs. Chao, who has less experience than you, had been unaware of all this and had presented that proposal not of substantial law less than a month ago in Commission 6a. But you were already here when the law was passed, you were here also when the Santiago Way Protection Guide was approved in 2011 and the Way Good Practice Manual in 2016, two documents that pretend to be a tool for all public and private promoters who are going to perform some kind of intervention on the Way or in the protection areas to guarantee exactly what the law says. And, Mrs. Burgo, you were also here when the early road delimitation was approved in 2012, a fundamental, fundamental document for UNESCO World Heritage Declaration in 2015. We won't do it so bad, Mrs. Burgo, we won't. I recommend to you — and to Mrs. Presas too — a reading: the delimitation documentation, because it would not fall into some errors. Because in that reading — I can also teach many things and photos — in addition to seeing the typology of the Path of each frame — if it is a main frame, if it is a historical or functional vestige — I would see that "the Path between the Standard and the Vilarrogo is compacted, sometimes used" — means that the meadow, due to lack of maintenance, has been thrown over the road, "that the floor is ground or gravel compacted between the Vilarrono and the Montuto Hospital, being paved in the nuclei environment, and that, last Vilarrogo, there are crawls of the floor produced by the cliffs. Thus, in the area between..." [[Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez shows a document.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u225	They're already taking care of it by the medical services, it doesn't seem like a thing... but it's good. Then let's continue with the full. I was speaking to Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u226	For with the desire of the prompt recovery — I suppose by all of us — of our companion Elijah, we continue. He said at that time that I recommended reading the delimitation documentation that had been made for the delimitation of the primitive Way, a recommended reading for both Mrs. Burgo and Mrs. Presas, because Mrs. Presas in her speech spoke of certain things in less. Mrs. Presas, there's a rigorous study to do the delimitation of what you were talking about, and precisely in that study there was talk about the typology of the Way in every frame, if the Way is a main road, it has a historic vestige or it's functional. And I was reading a little bit about exactly what this study said. Then he commented on the difference in materials that were used in each frame. I was saying that between the area between Triacastela and Montouto, there are steps flooded by the water that make it impractical. And what did the Tourism Agency do? To heed the request of the Town Hall, Mrs. Burgo, which I suppose you and the mayor have some relationship, at least if it's political sympathy. He then acted on the most conflicting and urgent points to ensure the maintenance and use of Santiago's Way, in line with article 78 of the Cultural Heritage Act and the recommendations of the Way Guide for Good Practices. This is what the Paradela Town Hall did in its plot and what the Sarria Town Hall did in its, which I suppose to the Paradela Town Hall might not talk about, but to the Sarria Town Hall, which is its party, I imagine it will also have some kind of relationship. And that's why he used in the performances that you describe -- by the way, some of them to give round access to the estates of the owners -- materials like artificial flavor, macadaman of nearest quarryes, red pinewood, etc. Mrs Burgo, I am not going to repeat my statement from the 6th Commission — you can see it at the Media Library — you can speak to your co-worker, Mr Pérez Lago, who defended it — I don't know why you haven't spoken here today. Just repeat that no one doubts that the most conscious party with what the Way of Santiago means is the People's Party. We have been working for the Way for more than twenty-five years — Mrs. Pontón, I'm sorry — in all its facets, in all its dimensions, in all its fields, in protection and in value as well. Mrs. Burgo, I am the truth that, after listening to her, I see you don't understand anything. But they don't fool anyone. You are the one who is anchored in the sixties, because everything that represents the Way of Santiago today — and without any false modesty — comes from the hands of the People's Party — I feel so! — with planning, Mrs Presas, because there is a plan director 2015-2021. And, Mrs. Presas, no doubt, we've met with each and every one of UNESCO's programs and parameters, we're even referring to things that it costs you to name as much as governance or sustainability. Unfortunately, we cannot support his proposal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio Vilasánchez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u228	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again, gentlemen. Mrs. Antonio, I'm very sorry that you are always so disturbed by my interventions, and upset by them, in addition, personally. I don't know if you're upset to see someone with so much lack of rigour as I have. I don't know if you're upset with my person, but of course you're upset with my interventions. Something really has to say to me so that you're always so upset. [[Applause]] Look, besides that, I also want to tell you that I imagine you know that to know a law you don't have to be here at the time of promulgating it; there's something called reading; then, anyone who isn't here when a law is promulgated and the read, because look, he's as well aware as I am, who could be in this law. Thirdly, look, what I said here I didn't say because of my extreme lack of rigour — that I don't even know what that word is — but because the Way Forum, the Path Brotherhood, that is, many tens of Jacobean associations, I remind you that you are trying to maintain a good relationship with them. So don't also say that they must have a lack of absolute rigor, because all I said and the photos I taught are these associations, photos that, by the way, must also be lacking rigor, but I promise you I don't know how to do Photoshop to take those photos. They were real, not because of my lack of rigor. [[Applause]] Look, I'll also tell you: the delimitation of the Way was made since 2009; it was you who took after 2013, first. Secondly, there are a large number of unbounded roads, and hence without protection; responsibility of the People's Party. And I'm going to tell you something else that I hope you will remember, because you will have rigour, but no memory, eh!, and you don't remember that the delimitation of the primitive Way caused multiple and multiple protests, including mayors of the People's Party, of mayors' associations, of pilgrims', because that delimitation caused a third of the primitive Way to go through normal roads and roads and to leave out historical traces. On the other hand, what I ask, Mrs. Antonio, is not in the Law of Heritage. Because, of course, in the Heritage Act, one has to take care of complaints — it was missing — and what is in the Heritage Law is that Heritage has to give permission. But I don't say that you give permission, I say that Heritage oversees—supervise—all projects and packaging works and improves that are carried out in the paths of Santiago—supervise, monitor, not only give permission—and, in addition, investigates all the actions and works denounced...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u229	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u230	...in the defense associations of the roads. I'm sorry I don't have any more time, because we could talk a lot more about what the Galician Union has always been doing with the protection of heritage, but only the first article of the Heritage Law: the Union is responsible for its heritage and its protection, which it's not doing, Mrs. Antonio. Madam Presas, of course I accept your amendment, which I believe increases the importance of the proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u231	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the charges of the highways AG-55 and AG-57, as well as the demands to be made by the Ministry of Development in relation to the fees and the financing of works in the highways AP-53 and AP-9
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u232	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, En Marea and the Galego Nationalist Block. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of his colleague Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, through the spokesman and the author of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal (Doc. # Amendment No 41145).A new wording is proposed for point 1 of the initiative's resolution, which will have the following content: "1.- To submit, within six months, the necessary studies to liberalise the fees of self-sports of competence of the Autonomous Community AG-57 of Puxeiros-Val Minor and AG-55 The Coruña-Carballo".Addition amendment.A new point 1 bis should be added, which will have the following contents:"1 bis.- To immediately establish the reduction of the fees for all the users of the so-called self-sroads autonomous, exceeding the framework set out in Decree 183/2015 of 10 December, so the agreement between the Galician Union and the Galician Autoestradas of Galicia, the Galician Union of Galicia, S.A, which regulates the fee bonus of the motorways A Coruña-AG-55) and Carballo (AG-55) is approved.]] [[(G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of its Members Marcos Cal Ogango and Antón Sánchez García, in the light of Rule 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits the following amendment to this non-law proposal. (Doc. # 41145)Amendment of modification.You must replace point 2 of the resolution with the following:"2- Start the works for the recovery of AP9 to the public in the following terms:a)Realize, in the shortest possible time, a study that determines the costs of the recovery of AP9 to the public.b)Ask the Government of the State to discard the plan of execution of the "Atlantic Highway" which it plans to travel, in parallel to the AP-9, the route A Coruña-O Porriño. By withdrawing it from the State Roads Act catalogue.c)To request the Government of the State to invest in the recovery of AP9 the budgets that should be expected to be devoted to the construction of A-57.d)To prepare a study that determines where it is necessary to strengthen AP9, once recovered to the public, with a high capacity or conventional way of new creation."]] [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), at the initiative of Mr Luís Bará Torres, in the light of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal, Doc. # 41145 [10/PNP-003108].Replace points 1, 2 and 3 with the following: (With this change, the current point 4 would become 7))]] ))) "1. To prepare a study for the rescue of the concessions of the highways AG-55 and AG-57 and for the abolition of the fees. 2. As long as the above measure is not carried out, do not apply the upwards of the fees planned for 2019 on these motorways and apply bonuses of at least 50% for people who use them normally for work, studies or displacement to public centers. 3. Request from the State Government not to approve new tariff increases from AP 9 to 2019, assuming any obligations under State budgets in this regard. 4. To request from the Government of the State the negotiation of the rescue of the concession of AP 9 and the release of the fees, assuming the costs of this measure. 5. As long as the previous measure is not implemented, the central government is required to establish measures to subsidize the fees in AP 9 and AP 53. 6. To address the political groups of the State parliament so as to encourage urgent processing of the AP 9 transfer law, they do not request an extension of time limits and do not unanimously amend the text approved by the German parliament."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u233	Mr. Fernández Prado has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u234	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. We are now discussing this initiative for two main reasons. First of all, because last Tuesday, 11 December, Galicia received good news about AP-9 with the approval of the Congress of taking into account the legislative proposal which came out unanimously from this Greek Parliament, a consideration that it has achieved majority support in Congress, among them from the majority group, the People's Group, which is the majority, without votes against, and even yesterday we knew its shortened processing in a faster way — which is a second step equally important — in Congress. We therefore believe that it is a success for Galicia that must be realized and added in the coming months. We've been defending this transfer for some time since the Union and the party that supports the government action, this Government of Greece. We believe that we deserve this transfer that enables us to directly manage the highway that will vertebrate the territory where most of the Greeks live and develops much of the economic activity. There are, of course, many steps to take. From this parliamentary group we trust that this process in Congress will be successfully completed for Galicia. But, as we have already publicly stated, we also consider it necessary to begin now, in parallel, the negotiation in the Joint Transfer Commission to begin to address and talk about the conditions of transfer, because it is essential to know what conditions this motorway will be transferred to the Greek Community; it cannot be transferred at any price and less if it is burdensome to the Greeks. And secondly, we are bringing this initiative today because the Greeks cannot continue to bear that level of permanent intensification of AP-9's tariffs, an increase that is mainly motivated by that ruinous agreement that signed in 2011 the Socialist Government of Madrid, so the rates of AP-9 will rise by 1% cumulative for 20 years to pay for the works of the expansion of the highway and to a fixed interest of 8%, today completely unthinkable. AP-9 has already risen by nearly 2% in October and will rise again on January 1st by 3.47%, with an increase of more than double that will apply to the rest of the state highways, where the rates will rise by an average of 1.67%. And to these AP-9 subs, as we say, derived from this royal decree of 2011, we have to add new aggravations by the current Government of Spain. Because the Socialist Government, while it authorizes a rise of almost 3.5 % on AP-9, releases AP-1 from the peaage between Burgos and Armion and lowers the rates of the Madrid radio highways by 30%. By the way, all we ask is the same treatment as other autonomous communities. This parliamentary group considers that this is not an acceptable situation and that we must act on it. We sincerely believe that this is an aggravating for Galicia that we have to try to cut. The Government of Spain of Pedro Sánchez, with the support of this Government of the Tides of Podemos, has just answered a question in Congress a few weeks ago in which he literally says that he does not contemplate the rescue and liberalization of AP-9 peas, literally. Now, between the total ransom and the continuous climb horizon of the AP-9 beaches, we really believe there's a lot of truce and there's possibilities for improvement, paulatines, but they have to start now and they have to be continuous. And that's what we're bringing here today: proposals to move forward in the downhills of the highways in Wales and in the states. Junta has already asked the Council to put in place measures to alleviate this discrimination. We want to maintain coherence and continue to demand of the Government of Pedro Sánchez the same as we ask the Government of Mariano Rajoy and also continue with the policies that have already been implemented since the Government of Greece. That's why we are presenting this PNL, first of all, to ask the Government of Greece to develop the hourly bonuses in the fares of the motorways of its title, the Coruña-Carballo and Vigo-Baiona, so that you can benefit from these bonuses announced at nighttime, not only the carriers, but users who use the Galese motorways at nighttime, from 12am to 6am. We started by asking the Self-Government of the Union before anyone. We also ask the Board to develop a proposal for measures to reduce the impact of AP-9 peas, and to transfer this study to the Ministry of Development. This was a matter that had already been transferred by the Board to the Ministry within the framework of the last joint AP-9 Commission meeting on November 13th. At that meeting, Junta asked him to study and negotiate with the concessionaire possible formulas to simplify the rates of AP-9. That's why in this non-law proposal we ask the Board to elaborate and urgently transfer this proposal to the Ministry. Of course, we want the Ministry of Development to value this proposal from the Board, but it also endorses other possible flexibility and reduction measures to negotiate with the short-term concessionary company. And we're asking you to also study these tariff and bonus flexibility measures on the AP-53 motorway, as the Junta will do in its own. Finally, we need to insist on the commitment made by the previous PP Government that the future AP-9 works will not be financed from new tariff increases, but through the State budget, to avoid situations like those we are now living, and that those already committed to enlargement will be done. And also, of course, that it fulfils, as soon as possible, the existing commitment to freeing the pay of Roundola, as the neighbours and social, economic and business sectors have been demanding, and, of course, from the budgets of the Ministry of Development, as I was talking about. The Galician Union is already preaching by example. And so, in the years of the greatest economic crisis, he put more than 200 new kilometres of high-speed free toll routes into service, and at this time too, the rates were lowered in AG-55 and AG-57. And he preaches with the example because also, in contrast to the policy driven by the central government concerning the fees, he's proposing new downloads for these autonomous self-roads. Therefore, as we also understand that these are proposed measures that are beneficial to citizenship, they are continuing to maintain the same demands that have been maintained with the former Government of the State, with the Government of Mariano Rajoy, we ask this House for its support and hope that they will vote in favour. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u235	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u236	Oh, PP!, who's seen you and who's seen you! How the twists changed, Mr. Fernández! [[Applause]] Look, I'm going to read you a date, see if you're alone, what we're seeing is discrimination and an aggravating for Galicia. This phrase didn't say it to a BNG manager, said it -- I don't know if it's ever happened to protonationalism now -- Mrs Ethel Vázquez: "What we're seeing is discrimination and an aggravating for Galicia." Welcome and welcome. The shame is that they didn't know six years earlier, that they didn't say this, that it was an aggravation, a discrimination, when the Government of the People's Party of Madrid took these harmful measures to Galicia, that they didn't say that when Mr. Rajoy and Mrs. Ana Pastor ruled for three years, three consecutive times, the AP-9 Transfer Act, they were calm and quiet—the procession of the little ones and the little ones. [[Applause]] And then, still above, they went to take a picture with Mrs. Ana Pastor. Make a trick, send a trick! You don't know if they fell off the horse on the way to Damascus, they fell off the donkey — as Noa Presas said — on the way to Santiago, or on the way to Soto del Real, but the reality is that they went to opposition to corruption. And even though it was just for that, the truth is, you like to hear it say this about injury and discrimination, that put those words in your mouth; I don't know, it gives us some satisfaction. The problem is that you have no credibility, because in just six months the speech has completely changed, and this is just the pose and the superacting, to nothing else. You used to practice meekness and submission to Madrid, and now also, now, to Mr. Casado, of course. They used to say "yes, baboon" in the bilateral AP-9 follow-up commission... do you have any problems with Mr. Tellado? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know, if you have any problems or if you want to say something, we can give you the floor. He seems to be disturbed by some things that are said here in the gallery. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, look, it'll bother you even more because I'm still getting started. [[Laughter]] Look, you used to say "yes, baboon" when there were no bonuses and you were ruling in Madrid and in the board of Galicia; there was no bonus, neither was there in AP-9. And you said "yes, baboon" and you didn't raise your voice against that situation when there are thirty-five concessions in the state that do have bonuses. You shut up, and now you raise your voice. They also shut down when they approved the rescue of Madrid's radials, with two billion euros of public funds investment for that ruinous business; two billion now, because expropriations are still pending. And they also shut down about these ruinous conventions for the Greeks and the Greeks with Audasa of 2011, signed by the Socialist Party, and in 2013 signed by the People's Party, by Mrs. Pastor. Yes, yes, Mr. Fernández Prado, you have shut up, and now Mr. Fexóo says it seems excessive to you to rise from the toll by the works of Rande and Santiago. You love it!, you love it!, you had to say it first!, you had to say it first! [[Applause]] The BNG, the difference between you and the Socialist Party, once again denounced the aggression and discrimination and now denounces it, when the Socialist Party is ruling, which is being aggravated and discriminated, aggravation in that rise of 3.81% in 2018 approved by you and the Socialist Party; in which it now comes to 3.47% in 2019; at the end of the concession of self-esteems which are of the same time as AP-9; also in the announcement of reductions made by the Ministry of Development on the highways rescued with these two billion, which, above all, apply 30% reductions also at nighttime. That's an aggravating and discrimination, and we say it before and we say it now. And also the discounts they announced, they approved, 80% in two thirds of AP-7 and AP-2 in Catalonia. The Government of the Socialist Party approved these 80% discount measures paid with funds from the public age, the Ministry of Development. We think it's an aggravation. And of course, you, who have a very bad conscience, in this over-acting, now come to announce how the big measure turns out that a bonus in the night traffic, between 12 and 6 in the morning — which is, as you know, when everybody uses the car — on the freeways of Carballo and more of the Val Minor. Don't take our hair off, Mr. Fernández Prado. I'm telling you, they're having a party both in Bergantiños and in Val Minor with this measly and irritant measure, the chocolate of the oyster. Don't come and sell us bandages. You do what you do with this measure is perpetuate and commit a new aggravation for the proximity of these areas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u237	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u238	...who has suffered these abusive sins. So we from the BNG, what we've transmitted and moved to them, is a series of amendments -- which we expect to take into account -- firstly, to eliminate the fees on those auto-autonomous roads, because it seems to us that it's absolutely discriminatory for these comarcas, and that, in the meantime, this measure is not carried out, we propose bonuses at least 50% for users and usual users. We also do the same with the case of AP-9 and AP-53, which must also be rescued for the public, and, in any case, establish bonuses, as in other state highways. And, said this, you come here with tears of crocodiles to hide your bad conscience for what they've been doing all these years against the interests of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u239	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández Prado, "I am very aware of the impact the tariffs have on the whole of Galicia's economic and social fabric and understanding that our Community cannot tolerate any kind of idea that poses an aggravation or a situation of imbalance with respect to other territories or loss of economic competitiveness...", etc., this is the introduction of its proposal not of law. And I say, is this argument not transferable by a homobecity to the Autonomous Community of Galicia in respect of the highways to which we have to pay? It's the same argument; therefore, it must be equally valid. You speak in your proposal, at the first point, of the AG-55 hourly bonuses, the Coruña-Carballo, and the AG-57, Puxeiros-Val Minor, the only autonomic highways that have tolls, which certainly rise by 2.15 % this year, 0.5 points more than the average of the state rise, which rose by 2.5 % in 2017, by 1.56%, by 0.64%; i.e. highways that have permanent ups and downs. That's the reality of the autonomous Community's tariffs. And that's why our Parliamentary Group proposed the amendment, which you know perfectly well, which is to submit within six months studies to liberalise the fares of the highway, because one thing is that no fees are paid directly by the users and another that there are no fees in shadow, of course; therefore, there are fees in any case. And we also call for the immediate reduction of the fees for all the people who use these autonomous roads, all of them. Look, you're talking about pushing a reduction in a toll between 12 and 6 in the morning; i mean, I figure that 17 cars and three trucks are going to benefit each of these highways by this measure. This is not a low cost measure for the Administration, it's a now cost measure, i.e. this has no cost at all. In practice, we're going to see that this reduction in rates is translated, we're going to see it, because, frankly, we don't think this is whether it's a toast to the sun or some other kind of qualification that would probably have some kind of recriminal on the part of the Presidency of Parliament. Anyway, this doesn't go anywhere, and you know it perfectly. With regard to the rest of the proposals they make, I will tell you that yes, that we agree, and in fact we do not amend them, and we say yes because we have not changed our criteria, despite what Mr Moreira said in the first proposal not of law discussed today in this Parliament. And we're going to say yes, because we have to lower the rates. But it is worth not forgetting, Mr. Fernández Prado — if at some point he did not take it into account — that AP-9, if we do not remedy it in some way, will have damages until the year 2048, and you know — and you forget it permanently or consciously — that this extension of the concession was carried out by the President of the Government at that time, Mr. Aznar, being adviser to the guild in this Autonomous Community today, who is President of the Council of Galicia. Oh, my God, what a coincidence! And you forget, too consciously, that A-1 isn't that it's free of fees, it's that it's finished the concession period. What do you want? Let's keep paying after the deadline is over? Do you think it's too little to pay during the concession and then keep paying? Why aren't we in the same situation or within two or three years we would be in the same situation as AP-1? Who is responsible for us having to continue paying the fee until 2048? Mr. Sánchez's government? No, you know perfectly well that you don't. With regard to point 3, it is the same reasoning. Of course we do, of course, believe that it is necessary to simplify the cost of the fee of AP-53, and therefore we will also support it and not amend it. And with regard to the last point of his non-law proposition, he actually raised two things: one, that the future works of AP-9 will not be financed from new ups and downs. We also agree, of course, but we agree too — and so we have already approved it in this Parliament and I do not see the need to re-decide — to liberalise the pay of Round it. You know perfectly well that when certain measures are taken that at the time seem to be the right ones, such as the liberalisation of traffic towards the Cangas area, certain inequities end up. The objective at that time was clear; that is, it was to reduce the duration of the journey and promote competitiveness, as you rightly argue in the justification of your non-law proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u241	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u242	...but, of course, Moaña's neighbours stayed out of that gratuitousness. And so we're going to support that. In any case, we understand that they should accept our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u243	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group In Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u244	Thank you, President. Well, I don't know what we can call this initiative, we can call it "The Trillery Game Continues", "The Trillery Returns", "The Trillery Never Left", "The Trillery Game - Second Time". Everything related to AP-9 and the People's Party is a triller game. First, you have played voting here in this Parliament the transfer and recovery of AP-9 at first and then only the transfer and blocking in Madrid at the Bureau of Parliament its debate. And now we move on to the second season. The second time is: you vote here in favour of lowering the fees while you are responsible for the situation with AP-9. Mr. Fernández Prado said they were always defending the transfer and that it's good news. What Mr. Fernández Prado doesn't say is that, if you haven't done it before, it was because the People's Party has prevented it. That's your triller game. Mr. Fernández Prado also says there are many steps left to take. Of course there are many steps left to take, including the recovery for the AP-9 audience, to end this scam. [[Murmurs.]] You're going up this year by the Central Government, but, of course, you've taken part in a fraudulent photo last year, which allowed you to raise the fees this year. So, I don't know how you're going to recriminalize the current government who's going up to the fees when you took part in the fraudulent photo saying that the works were finished, which was what allowed the fees to be raised this year. So you're the main ones and the only ones responsible for this year's increase in rates. What is more, we have taken initiatives to this Parliament, after this embarrassing picture, where we asked this Parliament to stand against the rise of the fees this year, because we understood that the works were not finished last year. And you know what you did, don't you? You voted against. You were in agreement this year that the fees rose and voted against the initiatives that you brought to Marea so that no fees rose this year. But that's when you were in the government, so now they're changing positions. And with regard to discrimination with respect to other highways, as you just said, and Mr. Álvarez has just told you, if we are not in this situation, if AP-9 is not in this situation, it is because the People's Party has given an extension until 2048; that's why we are not in this situation. And from the moment the People's Party privatized the price of friends this highway, 60% went up. It's their responsibility to raise 60% of the fees to 2048 on the highway, that's their responsibility. By a management of a highway that is not for anything difficult, you decided to put it in the hands of speculators to earn money at the expense of the Greeks and the Greeks, because they kept at the time of privatization the same director that was when it was public. And so they didn't change anything. The only thing they've changed is that from that moment on there were speculation funds enriching with the money of the Greeks and the Greeks. His intervention, if it was this Friday, on December 28th, because he could make some sense, because he could be in a joke, but, as it is not December 28th, it is a joke that you are defending here what you are defending today, with all that they have done with this matter. You also begin by saying in your explanatory statement that on November 13th, there was a new AP-9 commission meeting between the Board and Development. If it was December 28th, it would be funny. But what were the previous meetings? Like a new meeting!Is that what you're talking about? The first, the first meeting, not a new meeting! Because, while the People's Party was at Fomento, the Galician Union did not meet once and for all in this commission. I asked Mrs. Ethel Vázquez directly and she didn't answer me; I asked him in a direct question: when they met, what did they defend?, and what were the conclusions?, very simple questions to move a meeting. He didn't give me a single date or a single conclusion, because they didn't meet. This is the first meeting. You have information about what happened at this meeting. You now have a replica, give me information from the other meetings, because you have the privilege of counting on the information about what happened at this meeting and perhaps they also have it from other phantom meetings that say it happened; they also have information; until now they've never put it on the table. To also say — I'm finished — that the makeup that you make with AG-55 and AG-57 — as the previous speakers have already said — is no use for anything, it's a makeup, it's another trick game so it looks like you're doing something. I'm done. We present a replacement amendment in point 2, because we understand that the step we have to take is not to play this triller game to see if we can if we can get anything under the rates. What we understand is that we have to get AP-9 back to the public, that Galicia no longer invests more than 100 million a year on this highway coming out of the pockets of the Greeks and the Greeks and putting itself to the service of social development...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u245	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u246	...and the economics of Galicia, which is how it has to be. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u247	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u248	Thank you, President. Mr. Bará, you're talking about a photo with Ana Pastor. He's upset not to be in the picture. He's upset. But, look, the ones who took him out of the picture weren't us, it was the Greeks who took him out of the picture. They took them out of the photos, first because they don't have Members in Congress and then because they don't have enough representation here to be in that commission. [[Applause]] The ones who took him out of the photo were the Greeks and the Greeks with their vote. But, of course, you forget that in 2011 the convention signed by the Socialist Government, an agreement to pay for these enlargement works. Now we say there's trouble because when what's done for AP-1, for AP-7 and for Madrid's radials doesn't happen for AP-9 and for AP-53, those night casualties from which the Socialist Party laughs, why don't they also drive to highways and autonomous highways? And why, if you laugh at autonomics, do they do it on Madrid radials but not on AP-9? Why? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If it's nothing, it also lowers the nights of AP-9 the Central Socialist Government with the support of the Tides. Look, socialist gentlemen, when you were ruling, they didn't lower any autonomics fees, none! The only government who came down to pay was Mr. Feijóo's government, the only one who made cuts of fees. Of course, he wants to give us classes here now a Bipartite who signed an agreement to pay taxes on state highways, 7 million euros to no, 7 million!, 400 million euros in total. Those are the classes that want to pay us the fees that, while ruling, not only did they protest and see no harm, but they paid the fees of Barcala and Rande those who went to the Morrazo. But of course, of all we hear Mr. Cal brings us today and they call us triellers, Mr. Cal. I brought it to you, because I don't think you've read La Voz de Galicia today, the comments of Mr. Merlo, when he says the trilaires are you. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Fernández Prado shows a document.]] Of course! [[Laughter]] Exactly, trillery game. [[Applause]] Bad day to bring this qualification to the PP! [[Applause]] But, look, it's hard to be trilary too, of course. You don't know if it's the Power Tides or the Tide Powers anymore, because you're seeing who's left with this in Galicia. In any case, what we say is: we want to maintain the coherence that we have maintained all these years, also these six months since the Socialist Party ruled. And we asked Mariano Rajoy for the same thing. Mr. Álvarez, you say you didn't change your mind. I'm going to read you three comments, one such as Gonzalo Caballero, January 25, 2018: "We have to use budgetary mechanisms to prevent the rise of the fees." Another, a few days earlier, Mr. Leicega, January 5, 2018: "You must take Encouragement to avoid the transfer to the citizens of the fees," from the expansion they signed! [[Murmurs.]] And finally... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u249	Shh, shh, shh, shh, shh,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u250	...mix it by registrar in PNL 2469, which literally says that "take on its budget the works of expansion of AP-9 capacity." Three times in less than a year, and are we now the ones who change our mind?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u251	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u252	Is that us?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u253	On the amendments, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u254	Well, obviously...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u255	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u256	Mr. President, with these criteria we cannot accept these amendments. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u257	You don't accept them. Thank you. After we have finished the debates on non-law proposals, we proceed to the vote on them. Close the doors, please. [[Murmurs.]] Let's start... If it seems to you... No, no, that's it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's part of the parliamentary exchange and that's what I'm not going to come in on; that's another story. No, let's see, I'll propose, given the time we're at, I won't read all the proposals again because if I don't... then if we're a little more careful, we know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Number one. Let's go to number one, which is the People's Parliamentary Group, by Mr. Gonzalo Trenor. Is there a transaction or is there no transaction?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u258	There is a transaction, which is as follows: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to request the Council of the Crown to transfer the spaces on the market in Santa Lucia to make a new health centre in that place, as required by the neighbours and neighbours, and to be carried out as quickly as possible by ensuring the necessary budget allocations."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u259	Thank you. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López and eight other Members, on the request by the Galician Board to the Council of the Coruña for the transfer of suitable spaces on the market of Santa Lucia to provide health care to the users of the Federico Tapia Health Centre. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 59; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u260	We voted for number two, Mr. Marcos Cal's initiative, which he said he didn't accept, but he was going to make a transaction. Is there a transaction? Please read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u261	It's a little complex, but, well, the different voices are clear, but I'm going to review: the first two points would be as they are, at the third point we would add at the end of our part the first point of the Socialist Party and at the sixth point we would incorporate the second point of the BNG. You know the voices what this introduction is like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u262	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u263	And then we make a point vote that I was asked for. We would vote on the first two points, on the one hand; the third on the other; the fourth on the fifth on the other; and finally on the sixth on the other.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u264	So we started voting for points. We would vote, firstly, points 1 and 2. We vote. Vote of points 1 and 2 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Marcos Cal Ogando and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the project to execute the Atlantic Highway on the route The Coruña-O Porriño, the destination of the budgets planned for this end to the rescue of AP-9 and the preparation of a study for its reinforcement, as well as the fulfilment of the parliamentary agreement on the increase of the frequencies and adaptation of the schedules of the railway service of the Atlantic axis, the reduction of the price of the tickets in it and the start of the procedures for the rescue of the AP-9 concession. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 54. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these two points are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u265	Let us now vote on point 3. We vote. Vote for the transactioned text of point 3 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Marcos Cal Ogando and D. Antóns Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the project to carry out the Atlantic Highway on the route The Coruña-O Porriño, the destination of the budgets planned for this end to the rescue of AP-9 and the preparation of a study for its reinforcement, as well as the fulfilment of the parliamentary agreement on the increase of the frequencies and adaptation of the schedules of the railway service of the Atlantic axis, the reduction of the price of the tickets in it and the start of the procedures for the rescue of the AP-9 concession. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u266	We now vote points 4 and 5. We vote. Vote of points 4 and 5 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Marcos Cal Ogando and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the project to execute the Atlantic Highway on the route The Coruña-O Porriño, the destination of the budgets planned for this end to the rescue of AP-9 and the preparation of a study for its reinforcement, as well as the fulfilment of the parliamentary agreement on the increase of the frequencies and adaptation of the schedules of the railway service of the Atlantic axis, the reduction of the price of the tickets in it and the start of the procedures for the rescue of the AP-9 concession. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. As a result, these two points were adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u267	Let us now vote on point 6. We vote. Vote for the transactioned text of point 6 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Marcos Cal Ogando and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the project to execute the Atlantic Highway on the route The Coruña-O Porriño, the destination of the budgets planned for this end to the rescue of AP-9 and the preparation of a study for its reinforcement, as well as the fulfilment of the parliamentary agreement on the increase of the frequencies and adaptation of the schedules of the railway service of the Atlantic axis, the reduction of the price of the tickets in it and the start of the procedures for the rescue of the AP-9 concession. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 54. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u268	Third non-legislative proposal, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, initiative by Mrs Paula Vázquez. There are no amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, on the momentum for the Galician Union before 2020, a specific study on the financing and implementation of universal basic income in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u269	We voted for Number 4, initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, by Ms. Montserrat Prado Cores. The amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group is accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the demand of professionals in Sergas, especially at the continuing points of attention. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u270	We voted on the fifth non-law proposal, initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, by Ms Maria Luisa Pierres. There are no amendments, there is a self-amendment. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and five other Members, on the actions that must be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to measures to reduce the taxes announced for the purchase of habitual housing used, as well as for young people, large families and persons with disabilities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u271	We are now voting on paragraph 6 of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas, in which she accepts as an addition the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group and also a point vote. Is there a transaction? It's true, there's a transaction here. Do the groups know this transaction? All of them? [[Pause.]] We voted for it. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] For points? [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, how do you separate me? The point vote? For points. Which points do you want to separate? [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] We only vote number one. Come on, let's vote. Point number 1. Voting of point 1 of the Proposal for a Non-Law of the G.P.do Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Ms Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the amendments to the regulation of the Government of Greece reflected in the Resolution of 17 March 2017, of the General Secretariat of Equality, for the granting of the periodic allowance for women suffering from gender violence, as well as the one to be applied in the resolution that you said for that purpose by the year 2019. There is an error in the vote, apparently. No, we're going to make common sense. [[Murmurs.]] The common sense is that we must vote again because there is a mistake in the vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So we're going to vote again on point number one. Well, here we can still change, we're still a normal parliament and a mistake has any. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Let's vote again on point 1. Attention, please. [[Murmurs.]] Point number one. We're going to vote on point 1. [[Murmurs.]] Voting of point 1 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the changes that the Government must introduce to the regulatory bases reflected in the Resolution of 17 March 2017 of the General Secretariat of Equality, for the granting of the periodic allowance for women who suffer from gender violence, as well as the one that it must apply to the resolution it says for that purpose by 2019. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This point 1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u272	Let's vote for the rest of the points now. We vote. Voting of the transactioned text, except point 1, already voted, of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the changes that the Government must introduce to the regulatory bases reflected in the Resolution of 17 March 2017 of the General Secretariat of Equality, for the granting of the periodic allowance for women who suffer from gender violence, as well as the one that it must apply to the resolution it says for that purpose by 2019. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. These points were therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u273	Seventh. Socialist Parliamentary Group, initiative by Mrs Concepción Burgo, who accepts the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Vote for the transactioned text of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Maria de la Concepción Burgo López and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the interventions and works reported on the Primitive and French roads by the various associations of defense of the paths of Santiago, as well as with the projects and the packaging and improvement that are carried out in the Path The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u274	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado, which does not accept amendments from the other groups. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the charges of the highways AG-55 and AG-57, as well as the demands to be made by the Ministry of Development in relation to the fees and the financing of works in the highways AP-53 and AP-9. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u275	The votes were finished. Even though it's the middle of the afternoon, I wanted us all to share -- everyone, the table -- some relaxation, and we'll do it in the Kings Hall. And today I would also like to remind you that, as today, the first Parliament in Galicia was formed, thirty-seven years ago. I think it's appropriate for us to have a memory for all those who have done and worked so that Galicia is much better. For them, our recognition will go today too. Nothing else. We suspended the session until 4:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u276	Good afternoon. We resumed the session. Before I enter the development of it, I have to report a very bad news — some of you Members and Members already know it — which is the sinking of the Sin Querer Of fishing off the coast of Fisterra. Right now, for the data we have, it seems there are three people dead and one missing. From here we have transferred our maximum solidarity and, of course, condolences to the families of these people. And now I invite all Members and Members to keep a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u277	Thank you. Now yes, we're on the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u278	It corresponds to the fourth point, of interpellations. An inquiry has been postponed which has already been communicated. So we will proceed with the second interpellation. Interpellation by D. Francisco Casal Vidal, from G.P. of En Marea on the policy of the German Government in relation to consumer information on electricity tariffs
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u279	Mr. Casal has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u280	I was going to apologize because yesterday at the train station, waiting for the train at ten o'clock at night, I caught the cold, because Santiago's station is a storm when the wind comes like this, and I'm a bit affected. I hope I'm not fainting, because that's what was missing today. We're going to talk about the lack of enough information for the citizenship about light rates and what we think the Galician Union should do. A lack of information that involves a transfer, according to our illegitimate approach, of household income to electricity, which could exceed 200 million euros a year in Galicia, and I think this makes clear the importance of the matter. And the worst thing is that it could be corrected in a rather simple way and with very contained budgets. Profitability for citizenship would be very important, but, of course, the prejudice for electricity would be equivalent. We believe that there is the key to the failure to implement the measures that we are demanding in this appeal and, in addition, we do not understand it. In the past Commission 6th Mrs Vázquez Abeal, President of the Galego Institute of Consumer Affairs, answered — I have to admit — with complete professional solvency and transparency. What characterizes it is not irony, I have to make it clear, because I fully recognize your work. Another thing is he has the means to properly develop his work. And he talked about the actions that his institution develops, which to us are absolutely anecdotal in the face of the gravity of the problem. For example, he said that in four years, information talks — which we came here to claim — were made to 2,600 people in four years. As a comparative data, it's the same number of people who consult at the energy information points of the municipalities of Madrid or Barcelona in a month, it's the same people as here in four years. That means that the interest of citizenship is enormous because of this issue, so we think that the Galician Union would have to further strengthen this offer and — as I shall say later — beyond the information. He also recognized, and that's where most of our proposals go, that really effective information is customised, that could only be done with stable points of information equipped with the necessary training. She told us that there are courses for Red Cross people, for Caritas people. We think that's not the way, because the information about tariffs can do any one, until I'm giving courses on tariffs all over Galicia; imagine that if I do them I can do any one. But the reality of the cause goes much further, talking about energy efficiency, consumption habits, energy demand, etc., goes beyond what a person can do with a course. After all Mrs Vázquez Abeal has developed, she has had to admit that the results are really not the most reasonable, because after these — to us totally insufficient — actions, what reality is it? She recognized that, of course, for all homes it is best to be on the regulated market, what is the reality? The reality is that 150,000 Greek homes a year are moving to the free market. He also recognized that the hourly discrimination rate is the most advantageous rate for all consumers, but in Galicia they only have 6% of their homes, when, for example, in Germany they have 94% of their homes. Why are electric companies not interested in people finding out that time discrimination benefits the vast majority, more than 95% of their citizenship? Because they buy energy with time discrimination, if they can sell it at stable rates all day, they earn a lot of money, because they sell energy for 14 hours for 45% more than it's worth in the wholesale market. All of this we think and give in fact that it is an obvious reality, and all of these initiatives should go far beyond just information on tariffs, than I have just talked about advising on actions to improve the energy efficiency of households, which in Galicia is a very serious problem not only for the issues of temperature, but, above all, for the issues of humidity. Actions to reduce consumption. For example, people don't know that by putting -- some people know, but most people don't know -- LED light in their housing can save up to 90% of energy consumption. People don't know that a refrigerator or freezer A+++ can be amortized in four years, and we think the Government should encourage with some action the renewal of household appliances, because especially in rural areas everyone has freezer, which is the most widely consumed appliances. That household appliance is 14 hours consuming energy at normal rate, when it could be with 45% discount. In addition to reporting on the social bonus, detecting situations of energy poverty, etc. As we think the Government of Galicia does not do enough, in Tidea the truth is it made an important effort. They compare, the Galician Union of 2,600 people in four years, at Marea made twenty talks in the last three months to which 1,000 people came. And what do we detect among those 1,000 people scattered throughout Galicia, which is a good sample? So we find the following: 80% who attend these talks do not know what contract and rate they have in their homes; 90% do not know whether they are subscribed to the regulated market or the free market; 80% do not know the advantages of hiring the hourly discrimination rate when they are absolutely obvious; almost 100 percent of the people do not know whether the contracted power is the right one for their home, accepting what the marketing company proposes to them. Although the most important measures to lower the receipt of light go far beyond all that I'm talking about, In Marea has put out a number of proposals on how to improve the setting of energy prices, but this, of course, are complex to develop, but absolutely necessary, these are absolutely simple to implement. It's one more talk—after having an energy information point in the council—because people in a talk learn about three things: power, it has to be the right thing; secondly, to be on the regulated market; and thirdly, time discrimination. If any Member or Member does not know, he can call the company in the evening or tomorrow and say: I want the regulated market, I want time discrimination, and within a couple of months we can talk and they will tell me how much they have saved. This is serious. But going further and talking about energy efficiency and talking about how to fight energy poverty has to be in a much more personalized way, and that's why energy information points are essential. I don't know if they'll believe it, but they've been working in Madrid for three years, in Barcelona for two years, and it's the most demanding municipal service for citizenship, but with a lot of difference. I mean, an average of nearly 3,000 queries a month. And all this implies? Not having the contracted power that would correspond to the homes — it doesn't give me time to develop the whole study — means between 28 and 37 million euros more than they pay for the Greek homes. Being on the free market means 40% of subscribers pay around 9% more in receipt, around 50 million euros more a year. And most important of all, I say it in case you want to listen, tomorrow call and move on to time discrimination, and you'll notice the difference. That's where savings can be between 10% and 30% on the share of energy consumption in the receipt, and without too much discipline, because there are people who also in the talks tell me: look, I want to put the washing machine when I want to, I want to put the dish when I want to; for still, considering the household appliances that don't have the maximum power, but although the highest annual consumption, like the fridge and the freezer, these are connected all day. If fourteen hours a day is 45% off, you'll save it. That is, for some reason, in Germany — I say — 94% of the population, the subscribers, have time discrimination. That people don't know — and I say, 80% of people didn't know the advantages of hourly discrimination — is a minimum savings of between thirty and eighty euros a year on an average of sixty euros a month, multiplied by 1.8 million domestic subscribers in Galicia, which means, depending on discipline, 126 million euros of savings, without any discipline, making the bet to take on the peak hours, yet 47 million euros of savings. That is, between a minimum of 125 million and a maximum of 213 million euros of savings for households per year with an appropriate level of information. We think the figure is important enough, especially because it affects homes with lower incomes, which are the ones that also have less information. So we think that the Galician Union has to be involved in a much more important, much stronger way. What I'm saying is very transparently explained to us by the director general, the president of the Galician Institute of Consumption on the golden day, is totally anecdotic, we have to put a lot more means, obviously in collaboration with the municipalities, because that's where we have to put the energy information points, with staff perfectly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u281	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u282	I don't say there has to be an expert in every county, but they can go to Curtis on Mondays, Tuesdays to Melide, Wednesdays to Arzua, etc. I wouldn't assume an investment -- I don't know, I didn't really assess it -- of 1 or 1.5 million euros a year and I would save them to the Greek homes 215 million euros. We think the matter is important enough, simple enough to solve, and we hope the Government will take it into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u283	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, the truth is that I thank you for bringing to this parliament issues of interest to the whole of the Greeks. Topics of interest that also affect your pocket and therefore have an impact on your daily life. And, of course, the Galician Union shares with you the commitment to protect consumers, and that's why the Galego Institute of Consumers and Competition develops a very important task of information, training, working with different associations and also, at the same time, defending consumer rights through inspection actions, also sanctions, if necessary, and, finally, the Institute also develops arbitration mediation initiatives to reduce conflicts. In that sense, I believe that the collaboration that the different parliamentary groups can make with the Galego Institute of Consumption is added, because I imagine that in that sense you know that the Institute itself and the Galaga School of Consumption are at their disposal to collaborate and, therefore, to promote any initiative they consider appropriate. But there are two accounts in which it is impossible to agree. I don't think it's fair to say that the Union does nothing, we can say that we're on a complex subject, but magnifying that the Council of Galicia does nothing, it's not realistic. In fact, in the past Commission, the Director-General has transferred to him all the initiatives being undertaken by the Government to facilitate information on the bill of light, on the savings initiatives in electricity consumption, on the electric bond, and knows that the Institute is developing an important work through information talks in more than one hundred and twenty municipalities, with training activities also in the ninety-eight lessons of the Cemit network — the Modernization and Technological Inclusion Centres. And also, and trying to respond to your proposal, you know that the Institute performs an important work of collaboration and training technical staff, and in Galicia, Mr. Casal, you know that we have ninety municipal consumer information offices, the OMICs, and those ninety consumer information offices are ninety information points that the Greeks have to receive information on all these issues. And he also knows that the social services of the municipalities themselves — who have to care for vulnerable consumers — also act as information points within the different routes to facilitate access to different measures. So, of course, in Galicia there are information points through the municipalities, through these ninety municipal offices of information to the consumer and through the social services of the municipalities themselves. But we're also going there and we're paying special attention and advice to the most vulnerable groups, because, indeed, we have to get to them, and we're doing it in collaboration with the associations that are closer to these realities, such as the Gypsy Secretariat, Galician Resources, the Red Cross, or Caritas, and we're also collaborating with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces itself to ensure all information about the social bond and electric bill. In short, there is a whole network of information that drives, in some ways, about the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition itself, which is allowing — to give you an additional data — in the offices themselves and through the free telephone, to attend nearly 30,000 consultations in the electric field. So there's a very important job we're developing from the Galician Council, from the Galician Consumer Institute, from the municipal consumer care offices, and also from the social services itself. The second account where we can't agree is in their extrapolations. I appreciate the initiative to develop talks, but from there to extrapolate data and realities about Galicia it seems to me that this is more likely to be the property of certain sociological research centres which, really, of an analysis would be of what reality is in Galicia from this point of view. It is true that more must be done, it is true that we have to develop all the campaigns that are necessary to bring the consumer closer to reality and explain how they can benefit from very simple measures, and we are indeed insisting on the measures that you propose by adapting the power to real needs through this reduced hourly discrimination, but from there to that black picture that In Marea usually does, because I believe that in this particular case it is unrealistic. And we agree, Mr. Casal, that initiatives must not be just information, being important. Initiatives must lead them to other areas such as fighting energy poverty, defending consumer rights, driving energy efficiency and also supporting sustainable energy transition. There are four areas that go beyond the information and in which we have to work, and where I think we should make a recognition that the Galician Union has been and is at all times developing initiatives. In the wake of energy poverty, I remind you that the Galician Union has been operating since 2014, the first autonomous communities where we are pioneering the electric ticket for aid and to avoid supply cuts, and it also knows that we promote that Law 7/2017, of energy efficiency, which precisely allows us to complete the aid of the new state social bond, thus guaranteeing consumers not only a reduction, a gratuitous service, but also avoiding cutting the supply. He knows that in the issue of consumer protection the Galego Consumer Institute itself performs a very important task. Since 2009, Mr. Casal, the sanctioning files applied by the Galician Union to electricity companies have reached EUR 34 million. I hope it wasn't either, because it would mean that everything develops properly, but the reality is that the Galician Consumer Institute, when it sees an irregularity, opens a file and sanctions, and it's 34 million euros that we've been sanctioned by electricians over the last few years. For giving him a data, during the Bipartite sanctions reached a count of 97,000 euros. I think there's a clear disproportion there and there's a clear interest on the part of this Galician board in acting on any irregular situation on the part of the electricity companies. In the energy efficiency issue, we're working with households, especially to introduce more efficient energies from the biomass point of view and from the point of view even of promoting and self-consumption. This year 2019, next year, the Inega budgets will increase by 27%, we will spend 23 million euros on aid to families, businesses and administrations to reduce the cost of the electricity tariff. And finally, we're working on the sustainable energy transition, with the development of 1,200 megawatts in renewable energy sources, which will surely impact in the medium term so families have a reasonable price from the energy point of view. Finally, what I want is the opportunity to transfer to you that the Galician Union is acting, and is acting and providing information, and is also taking initiatives and combining structural measures with palliative measures, which are the ones recommended by experts, and therefore we believe that we must raise these proposals and follow that direction in collaboration with the different administrations and in collaboration with the different political groups. The only thing I've missed in your intervention is why these initiatives, which many of them correspond to the central government, you don't move them. It's probably because as they now rule together in Madrid, because we have to talk about the Galician Union, but I really think what we have to do is to work together among all the administrations and logically also work together among all the political groups to establish this work in the field of information and also in the issue of regulatory development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u285	Thank you, Counselor. Now we greet the 5th and 6th primary students from the Master Pastor Barral Center, from Melide, and also the teachers who are with them. Welcome to Parliament. Replica, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u286	First a comment about the last one the counselor said. We don't rule in Madrid, if we rule in Madrid, Alcoa would have a solution today. Sure, sure, sure! [[Applause]] But the reality is we don't rule in Madrid. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u287	Mrs. Prado, please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u288	The truth is, I have to admit that the democratic solvency of my data is weak, of course. They're 1,000 people divided into 20 municipalities, weak, but good. You see, now at Christmas dinners, if you want to see if what I say is an astranada, talk to all your relatives about how many they know if they're on the free market or on the regulated market, how many know that time discrimination can reduce their bill by 30% in terms of energy. To see how many know it, and perhaps, of course, it will be a democratic study also insolvent, but it gives an idea of where things go. If it wasn't so, if they were really so effective—and look at what it gives me, I don't know what to say about the Galician Institute of Consumption, which I think is one of the best institutions in Galician Union, because I liked to collaborate with them on the issue of Motorkar in Ferrol and Neda and his performance was impeccable, I have to say and I have to admit it because it is so, but, of course, without any means we can't do things—if you doubt what I'm talking about—but there's evidence—if every year 150,000 people and homes are going to go to the free market, knowing that they're obviously—I don't think that's going to deny it—and if 94% of the homes don't know that hourly discrimination benefits them—but I hope that I don't get them, why they won't hire it? Is everything going so well? Is the information flowing all over the place? It's a little weird, this is a little weird, at least weird, I say!, although there's no democratic solvency. Then, in addition, if we agree, they do a study. Look, for example, everything they're doing in the Madrid Town Hall is part of a very broad study they did in 2016 about energy poverty in the Madrid Town Hall. They could copy the format, hundreds of initiatives came out there, dozens of proposals for what's going on right now, and you're right, this is not only the responsibility of the Galician Union, all the right! and I don't say the state anymore, it's more competition from the municipalities. That's right, the problem is most Galician municipalities have no budget to develop this, and Galician Union would have to be present. Because this can't be done by a social service technician, which is the most elementary: regulated rate, hourly discrimination; that's easy to understand by anyone, but talking about the incidence of humidity in energy consumption, for example, or having appliances at stand by, how much does it cost a year? "What's a folder!" "Don't have the right appliances?" They're a lot of things, and that's already going a little further than an expert in social services can do. So let's really think about it, think about it, maybe not 200 million, let's make it 150, but I assure you it's a pasta for the Greek homes. And if you don't, you do a study and you draw the conclusions yourself. Then, of course, another thing that's already beginning to leave me a little bit of how the data is handled, and it's just that the other day a lady, who, as I've already told her about a lot, said that the complaints were 20 million, and now you — four days later — tell me it's 34 million. I don't think in four days they'd put 14 million fines. So we're going to ask for that information to know why, to see if it's due, for example, to a massive scam that's taking place. I'll tell you what, too, to transfer it to the Galego Institute of Consumption. Do you know how they want to brake that people don't ask for time discrimination? I don't know if you'll know that in Spain a few years ago it changed the regulated tension, it went from 220 volts to 230, and that implied that the contracted regulated powers had increased by 150 watts, because as it was for ampres, it means that who had 3.3 now the corresponding regulated power is 3.45 kilowatts. That person's gonna ask for time discrimination and they say, oh, stop there! But you have to renew the contract, and to renew the contract you have to move on to the new regulated power; that implies an increase in power and you have to pay you access fee and access contract. It's not much money, it's ten euros plus VAT, unless you're told that the network has no capacity, so you're charged a lot more. That's a scam, because the increase in regulated powers determined it by Mr. Rajoy's government, it's not the responsibility of the subscribers. I'm glad that, given the change in tension, multiplied by intensity, they change regulated powers, but they don't stop people from asking for time discrimination by asking them to pay for it when the law explicitly says it's free.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u289	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u290	And one thing, among other tens. You also know how they were, for example, on the social bond, denying some social bonds. He knows that the social bond — which I will ask him later — is entitled to that person who has the minimum pension, but many have denied it. The other day a lady called me, saying, "I'm denied because they say I have financial income." I said, "But how are you going to have your financial income?" He said, "Yes, it's because in the box last year, I was given 1.27 euros of yield, and then I'm told I have financial income and not just the pension; then I was denied the social bonus for that."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u291	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u292	We know that the new Government has already changed it and we thank him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u293	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Close this interpelment, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Casal, we have come to meeting points in the sense that we are actually facing a problem and a reality in which we have to involve all the administrations, regardless of our respective competences. And, above all, by trying to make an important effort on information, so I told you about the information points. We now have ninety points of municipal consumer attention information. And we have all the social services of all the municipalities, which are indeed and must collaborate in the transfer of information. Therefore, to collaborate with the Galego Institute of Consumption, to collaborate with the General Administration of the State because, in fact, many of the initiatives are very simple and would allow immediate consumer savings. And that's what we're involved with, and the Galego Institute of Consumption is involved. Just like we're involved in initiatives that allow for greater energy efficiency. I think the integral biomass strategy, which allowed Galicia to install more than 4,000 boilers in the eid of families, because it's also assuming a very important initiative. Like geothermal-related initiatives, aerothermia and self-consumption. Therefore, in this context I believe that it is taking place, that the Galego Consumption Institute is acting and that collaboration with different administrations and, in particular, with the municipalities is essential. But I think you will also agree with me that the biggest defense consumers can have is that the Government guarantees them a competitive price. And in that sense, I think there is also a responsibility, we have to bring to this chamber what measures must be taken by the State to ensure that consumers actually have access to a reasonable price of electricity. And then, logically, there are shot speeches; the government — and in that sense supported by the En Marea group — defends the closure of the thermal power stations. The government knows that the closure of the thermal power plants meant a 15% increase in the electric power station, which is not meant to be spoken of; it knows that the closure of the nuclear power plants in other communities was supposed to increase the price of electricity by 25%, which In Marea doesn't want to talk about. Nor does he want to talk about In Marea why he supports the revision of premiums to renewables, which are going to assume that already this year 2018 we are in electrical deficit after Mariano Rajoy's government has allowed to drain a deficit of EUR 30 billion in the electrical deficit. In 2018 the Government already recognizes that it will generate electricity deficit, which also goes against the price of electricity. His group also supports the Government in that rise of diesel taxes, and unfortunately also in that ban on the sale of non-electrical vehicles. We cannot agree, and that, Mr. Casal, if it directly affects consumers, because it directly affects the price that consumers have to bear when each month they have to pay the bill of light. We, Mr. Casal, believe in the ability of electrointensive companies to create jobs, so we defend initiatives to support these companies. We defend an energy mix that is acceptable to the rest of the European countries and, therefore, that efficient thermal power plants can be maintained. We also believe in renewables, but we believe that right now they have a reasonable payout and there's no need to touch a theme that is functioning reasonably well and that would lead us to increase the electrical deficit. And we also think, logically, that we don't have to demonize diesel and gasoline, and that the energy transition must be progressive. And before I increase the prices of diesel and gasoline, I remind you that 85% of the Greeks use diesel, and that the Government wants to demonize and want to increase taxes, and we can't agree either. Therefore, at all the debate we have raised, Mr. Casal, I believe that energy policy must also be introduced. An energy policy that prevents the rise in electricity prices as it is provoking the energy policy of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u295	Thank you, Counselor. Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and four other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Greek Government on improving the professionalization of emergency and civil protection services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u296	Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u297	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The question that we are presenting today by the Socialist Parliamentary Group has to deal in a clear and broad way with all the efforts to be made and to continue to do in Galicia for the professionalization of the entire emergency and civil protection sector in Galicia. And in that sense, given this interpellation to Mrs. Education Counsellor, our intention to expose these issues goes beyond the purely formative component. Without prejudice to the fact that we understand that government action is collegiate, and, of course, knowing that the education portfolio is absolutely heavy, I hope that it will also address the set of problems that we are going to formulate in matters of emergency and civil protection. One day, one afternoon — as the presidency of this chamber pointed out — we obviously all want to express our greatest resentment for the wreckage of the Sin Queer Dos, of Portonovo, on the back of Fisterra, since we are talking about emergencies. I would also like to greet the representatives of the directive of the newly formed Association of Emergency Technicians and Civil Protection in Galicia, because they are, of course, already forming part of the workforce of professionals who have to contribute in a decisive way precisely to the deepest professionalization of the sector. Madam Counsellor, in this matter in recent appearances by both the Vice-President and the previous Director-General for Emergency and Internal Affairs, as in the last Committee 1a, we have had the opportunity to hear I believe that an unfortunate part of the intervention of the manager of the Axega, and I say this because in all these appearances — and that is one of the reasons why we bring this inquiry — are hearing in a systematic manner a permanent reproach, a common reproach on the lack of commitment, the lack of responsibility; and even one of the comparators was saying that there is a certain insensitivity — which is a lot — on the part of the leaders of the local authorities of Galicia in matters of emergency and civil protection. And in that sense, I would ask myself an almost rhetorical question, because I believe that neither the mayors of Nigeria nor the mayors of Avia's Carballeda nor Tui nor the Viveiro nor the mayors, of course, today with the loss of their neighbours in the sea can be affected, they can at all be insensitive and can be incur — as was even said in some of the appearances of the autonomic leaders — in responsibilities for not exercising the municipal competences established in matters of emergency and civil protection. And in that sense, and on account of these I believe that there is no fortunate intervention by autonomics in emergency matters, that is why we bring this interpellation, knowing, of course, that there exists, in addition to in Galicia, which has been implemented for two years, a new degree of average vocational training in this field. And in that sense I do not fail to try to remember in each of the appearances—that both the vice president and those in charge of the General Directorate of Emergency and Internal Affairs, or in this case the manager of the Galician Emergency Agency—and to insist that the Galician Emergency Act itself—I don't know whether it's 2007 and being a government is not being observed with the pulsity that deserves such an important standard in Galicia—it always reiterates the integrated approach of formulations, jobs and the exercise of competence by the various public administrations in matters of emergency and civil protection. Article 2 and, above all, Article 10 — and I am not tired of insisting — clearly establish — and I read —: "When distributing public responsibilities in the field of civil protection and emergency management to the Galician Union, it has assigned the highest coordination and direction of civil protection and the management of services that are deemed necessary in a unitary way for the entire territory of Galicia. And the management of emergencies that exceed the means of response that local authorities have, which are usually not enough." And, Counsellor, taking some of the words of some of the Vice President's and President's Counsellor's appearances, he commented that there would even have to be more progress in the comprehensive emergency model, even by improving or exceeding the 2007 Emergency Act itself. Because, among other things, there's a new 2015 Law, the national civil protection system, which has to be incorporated into the autonomic regulatory acquis. And in those appearances on the part -- as I say -- the counselor insists on a series of issues that I want to insist on again. In any case, I would ask you, Counsellor, the Government of Greece, and I would ask you to transfer to Mr. Vice-President, whether from the perspective of this article 10 of the Emergency Act they believe that since the Galician Union they have taken sufficient steps to improve the professionalization of the emergency sector in Galicia. [[Applause]] Because it is clear that there is a professional sector and a voluntary sector, but especially since the last disasters in Galicia since 2017 — not so long ago — in the matter of fires, in the matter of explosions in Tui, of the River of Life or unfortunately — although we are in more competences of Maritime Salvation — today's misfortune in the Fisterra Sea, I believe that the challenges remain there alive. They have just replaced the Director General of Emergency and Internal Affairs, the new Director General, who has experience, has this new challenge ahead. Obviously, the challenge will be to overcome the partial actions that are being taken up to this point and to try to advance a truly professionalized, homogenized and technically regulated emergency policy for the whole profession. As you well know here, Counsellor, the autonomous community itself, by virtue of Royal Decree 2013, which established in the state domain the title of emergency and civil protection, developed in 2017 the training cycle for Galicia. And in this sense this morning President Feijóo himself boasted of the increase in training capacity in the field of vocational training. We did not close the cycle of vocational training, but we closed that cycle with the possibilities of vocational integration. The new decree, the new curriculum of this medium degree training cycle of emergency technicians and civil protection of Galicia, points out that it adapts the titration established at the state level to the professional field of qualification of the productive sector as regards specialization and polyvalence, and precisely enables this issue to be inserted immediately and a future professional projection. The decree itself establishes a catalogue of the most outstanding occupations and jobs for these new headlines: foreman or fireman, forest firefighter, forest fire monitor, firefighters in municipal, provincial, man-community, consortia, etc., firefighters in other public bodies, emergency technicians in armed forces, firefighters in AENA or firefighters, of course, in private business services. And this decree insists on the need for unified and professional training. And it says a question that I think is the key to a little vault to close the vocational training-insertion cycle, because it says how it is stated in this own decree: "As most of this sector concentrates on public institutions and administrations, it is an obligation of the autonomous public sector to promote the creation of this training which guarantees the best possible training through vocational training." That is why the question we want to move is to know to what extent — if by the Education Council — the duties in the field of vocational training are being met in order to be able to have new technicians in truly qualified emergency and civil protection in Galicia, who are making efforts at the Presidency Council and all the intrusion in the emergency sector, not only the Presidency Council — we could talk about the rural environment, we could talk about the Council of the Sea, to incorporate these new Greek professions, precisely, into the development of the best functions in the area of emergency and civil protection. Because, Counsellor, although you do not directly manage it, I suppose you are aware of the absolute fragmentation of the set of devices that intervene in the sector, from the supra-municipal emergency groups, to the municipal brigades, to the different fire and rescue fire extinguishing parks, at the municipal level, at the provincial level, etc., etc., etc. This really makes me think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u298	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u299	...—I have finished, President—that the emergency and civil protection device is absolutely operational and responds to the genuinely critical principle of single command. That's why, Counsellor, we'd like to know from the perspective of the whole of the German Government that is being done to contribute to the improvement of professionalization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u300	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u301	...from emergencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor of the Councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u303	Mr Vice-President, I am sorry to hear from this German Parliament for the shipwreck that has taken place in the Fistra Sea. Good afternoon. Your Honor, one of the most important measures to improve emergency and civil protection services and, therefore, to facilitate their professionalization is to have well-trained and prepared people in order to be able to intervene in the most appropriate conditions in the face of risk situations or catastrophes of different origins that may affect the citizenship of our community. In the name of the Greek Government, in fact, I would like to express that we fully share the interest in the continued improvement and professionalization of the emergency and civil protection services that operate in our community. And they're also interested, as it couldn't be otherwise, that trained people would end up in their work integration. Having the best-training professionals is a fundamental basis for the optimal functioning of emergencies. The emergency care services attended by the Greeks and the Greeks in critical moments for their safety are and must always be a priority for the Galician Union. The current German Government has been training and equipping these professionals almost exclusively. Having said the above, it seems appropriate to recall the fact that competence in matters of emergency and civil protection, according to the Galician Emergency Act, mentioned by you, corresponds to the deputies in the municipalities of less than twenty thousand inhabitants and to the municipalities themselves in those with more than twenty thousand inhabitants, being the role of the Galician Union, in purity, the highest coordination and direction. In addition to Junta de Galicia reflects this commitment in the actions and proposals of its representation in the decision-making bodies of the supramunicipal emergency groups and provincial consortia for the provision of the fire and rescue service. With regard to the professionalization of emergency services, what you were talking about, what I can say in this House is that: First, Galicia was a pioneer in the accreditation processes of the professional qualification of the extinction of fires and rescue. This process started in 2015 allowed six hundred and twelve squares to be offered, first of all, from which four hundred and forty persons and another fifty and six persons obtained a certificate of professionalism, to be believed in some of the competition units that compose it. These sixty twelve have to add the hundred and fifty calls for 2019, which makes a total of seventy-two squares. Second, the training provided at the Galega Academy of Public Safety, Agasp, in the area of emergency and civil protection has experienced a historic increase in recent years as compared to the number of courses, training hours and students. The training activities of Agasp in the last four years in emergencies were seventy-five formative actions, more than twenty-three thousand squares, more than twenty-four thousand hours and about ten thousand graduates, not counting 2018. Also mention that since 2015 and 2016, course 2015-2016, Agasp offers training based on training units of professional qualification, extinction of fires and rescue and the level 2 professional certificate of extinction of fires and rescue. It's about allowing both emergency professionals and civil protection volunteers to access the tests to obtain the professional certificate, which has been previously found. Since then and until 2018, a total of sixty-two such courses have been held in the nine hundred and seventy-three students and students, both volunteers and professionals. Third, the degree of vocational training of medium degree in emergency and civil protection, approved by Royal Decree 907/2013 of 22 November, was adapted to the Autonomous Community of Galicia by Decree 21/2017 of 2 February, establishing the curriculum of the medium grade formative cycle corresponding to the title of emergency technician and civil protection. In order to impart this title an agreement was signed, a partnership agreement between the Vice-Presidentship and the Presidency Council, Public Administrations and Justice, the Education Council, University and Vocational Training and the Galician Academy of Public Safety — hence, Vice-Presidentship and Councillorship, the Education Council, the University and Vocational Training and the Galician Academy of Public Safety — on educational collaboration in vocational training teaching and sports teaching. Under the convention some formative modules of this title, which are provided at the Instituto Antón Losada Diéguez da Estrada, taking advantage of the existing installations of Agasp develop in this, especially those of most practical content. Since the course 2015 and 2016 Galicia already has forty-four mid-grade vocational training degrees in emergency and civil protection. In fact, the first promotions show that they are satisfied with the training received both in theory and in practice. On the other hand, with regard to the actions of the Galician Council in favour of the inclusion of graduates and graduates, it is necessary to recall again, as regards professional exits in the field of public administrations provided for by the decree, that each administration has established its competences both in matters of emergency and civil protection. In this way, as set out in Articles 26 and 27 of Law 5/2007, of Galician emergencies, it corresponds to the municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants and in the remaining cases to provincial deputies providing the civil protection and emergency management service, including fire and rescue services. For this reason, with regard to the Galician Union, at the beginning of April, April 6, 2018, since the Galician Academy of Public Safety, Agasp, they were sent to the Fegamp, and also to the provincial consortia of fire and rescue services, a letter explaining the desirability of local authorities taking into account the title of emergency technician and civil protection in their selective processes. In response to the above-mentioned writing, the Fegamp referred the agreement adopted by the executive commission to the Galician Council in which it certified to transfer to the municipalities of the community referred to the Federation by the Galician Academy of Public Security in relation to the convenience of consideration in the bases of selective processes the title in emergency civil protection. As far as the powers of the Galician Union are concerned, it has also been opened accordingly. The renewal agreement for supramunicipal emergency groups shall include as a specific section of the basis of the competition for barremation as a merit of the title of emergency technician and civil protection. At the request of technical prescriptions for recruitment of the management service of the Integrated Emergency Care Centre, CIAE 112 Galicia, in the open procurement procedure carried out in 2018 was assessed as a priority that the staff assigned should count on the above-mentioned title. And with regard to professional exits related to the prevention and extinction of forest fires, it is being coordinated so that it is taken into account in the bases of future selective processes. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u304	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pomar. On the replica round, Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u305	Thank you, President. Madam Counsellor, as we said in my first speech, for us the duties were being brought forward by the Education Council in setting up precisely all the resources necessary to carry forward this relatively recent degree of training in vocational training. And in that sense, in what I believe to be deeper, as I said at the end of your intervention, it is precisely to ensure that the whole self-government sector, including local administrations, in one way or another, either through requirement or via a new course, will be barred, precisely this new vocational training to carry out the jobs of that catalogue of possible occupations that defines the 2017 decree that regulates this curriculum itself. And, in that sense, both the autonomous administration itself and the local administrations that receive funding or co-financing from the Galician Union in order to bring emergency and civil protection operations forward can, of course, and should lay down these obligations as a requirement, either to consider as a barrier to any local entity, in this case, that can receive this co-financing. In that sense, we trust that the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces itself gives that indication, because it can do nothing else, because it does not cease to be an association entity; those which have the competences authentically are the local entities, from which it is precisely watching the Council of Galicia for that fulfilment. But I would also like to comment on it — and I insisted in his first words — to insist on the distribution of competences. And in that sense, we know that they recently renewed for another three years, 2019-2021, the Union's agreements with Fegamp for the launch or continuity of GHGs, of supra-municipal emergency groups. And I really want to tell you that here the local authorities are not going through the bulk, precisely the Members — like some not so much — are betting and putting all the necessary resources against the current policy of the Union, where freezing the credits that were approved yesterday in the budgets intends to continue to do more with less and that to do less as we are seeing in certain areas in the short and medium term might be causing problems. [[Applause]] And, in that sense, I really wanted to tell you, by setting an example that can take us closer together, as in this case, because the Coruña Parliament is going to fund 20% to 40%; that means, in particular, that for the next year, it has just allocated EUR 350,000 — yes, Mr Pazos — to EUR 784,000. The Galician Board shall keep the appropriations for GES frozen in EUR 300,000 and the appropriations for voluntary associations in EUR 340,000. I want to go to a specific case, because we're always talking about this, and in that sense I ask you to transfer it to the vice president, because you, for example, have all institutional power in the province of Ourense: Together of Galicia, Deputy and Council of Ourense. However, as far as we can read everyone, the commitments by all the institutional power in Ourense are not the ones that seem to be what the vice president claims from the rest of the provincial deputies. For two examples, in the report to which Parliament asked for the four Members on the basis of the study and the Committee on the Forest that received this Chamber on May 3, the House of Ourense is dismissed at the last point: "Because the prevention of the extinction of forest fires is not the responsibility of this Member, there is nothing to say about the evaluation of the effectiveness of any kind of action." And he was asked for information on what had been done since the 2006 fire strike until 2017. It's a way of interpreting competences, but sometimes we don't talk as much, Counsellor, about competences from an administrative limitation perspective as well as political responsibilities. [[Applause]] On the other hand, the Council of Ourense itself, ruled by you, is demarcating the comarcallization process of the city park. So that's why we don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u306	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u307	...from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is spoken of when the commitment of the local entities of Galicia is called upon, where they have all institutional power they assume no responsibility. [[Applause]] And to conclude, Mr President, we will implement in the relevant motion a series of measures both to deepen the professionalization and labour integration of emergency technicians and civil protection technicians, as in a whole series of technical regulation issues across the sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u308	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u309	...to contribute precisely to the substantial improvement of emergencies and civil protection in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u310	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor of the Councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u311	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Díaz, in order to close this speech, I take up your question as it appears in writing. What measures has the Government of Greece taken to improve the professionalization of emergency and civil protection services in Galicia? It seems that this is the interest or interest of the question. And as I pointed out in the first intervention, one of the most important measures to improve emergency and civil protection services in Galicia and, therefore, to facilitate their professionalization is to have people prepared and well-trained to be able to intervene in the most appropriate conditions of risk situations or catastrophes of different origin that may affect the citizenship of our community. In this sense, I can say that having professionals with the best training always has a fundamental basis for emergencies to work optimally, and so we take care of the Greek Government that must be. In this context, I believe that the partnership agreement between the Vice-Presidentship and Council of the Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice, the Education, University and Vocational Training Council and the Galician Academy of Public Safety on educational collaboration in vocational training and sports teaching is becoming useful to the whole of society. As I said, this agreement is allowing Galicia to have forty-four middle-grade vocational training degrees in emergency and civil protection. In fact, the first promotions, as I said, show that they are satisfied with the training received, both theoretical and practical. Finally, since the Greek Government, as we said, we appeal to the responsibility of the other competent administrations, all of them in matters of civil protection and emergencies, so that they have the same political will of collaboration to make these new promotions of titles, better trained than ever, thanks to the efforts made by the Council of Galicia to implement this title, they can have a professional exit according to that training. As I have already explained, where the road to the Union is concerned, the road has now gone through the following points: in the Renewal Agreement of the Sub-municipal Emergency Groups, a specific section of the competition and barrier phase was included as a merit of the title of emergency technician and civil protection technician, and in the request for technical prescriptions for the recruitment of the management service in the Integrated Emergency Care Centre, CIAE 112 Galicia, in the open procurement procedure carried out in 2018, it was primarily assessed that the staff assigned should count on the said title. And with regard to professional exits related to the prevention and extinction of forest fires, it is being coordinated so that it is taken into account in the bases of future selective processes. So, Mr. Díaz, we hope that by uniting the effort of all autonomous, local and supra-municipal administrations we will arrive at the right port with emergency training and civil protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u312	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next point. Let's start with questions to the Government. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece to prevent the closure of the Alcoa factory in the Coruña and the loss of jobs
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u313	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u314	Eight days, Counselor, we are at a time of discount, as you know well, and there are only eight days left to reach December 27, a date that is absolutely key to the ERE of Alcoa and to know whether there will be a closure or not, a closure that, of course, we cannot afford as a country. And the truth is, the picture doesn't look right. Even today the workers are on strike in an exemplary mobilization and an example of working solidarity. Four hundred jobs are at stake and, by extension, it's at stake in our country's electro-intensive industry. [[Applause]] And the truth is, we think that you have an important responsibility, not only because you have ruled in the state in an important part of recent years, but also because, moreover, as representatives of this country, you should be more focused on seeking a joint position that goes beyond the search for culprits, and the truth is that the balance up to now is not very positive. You have breached parliamentary agreements, today there is no work table where you are sitting with the social part, you don't listen to the workers or the groups because you didn't assume that this is a country problem. I have to lament today unfortunately, too, its domino effect, an effect dominated that after an absolutely disastrous push has also dragged an ERE announcement into Ferroatlantics, to whom I also want to transmit today our solidarity on behalf of the BNG to all workers and workers. There's an urgent need for a solution for Alcoa, Counsellor, and by extension for the entire industry in our country. And the truth is, we want to ask them to abandon their sovereignty a little bit and feel themselves working because we owe them answers and proposals. And that's what I wanted to talk to you about. First of all, we would like you to sit once and for all with the union party, too, to negotiate in addition to the employer's proposal of a country for an industrial tariff that is stable and predictable in time, but not in return for nothing. We understand that this must also be linked to commitments such as the maintenance of employment and the commitment to industrial development under public control. And we also want to ask them to open their eyes. We understand that at this point in time it is from all the inescapable points of view that you simply vote for ideological prejudices if you continue to refuse to defend as a country that by our condition as surplus producers we must have some advantage in looking for an alternative. We ask you, Mr. Conde, to abandon your sectarianism and to feel like talking to the workers and to the workers, with all the union forces without exception, and to move an urgent proposal these days, because we're running out of time. So we asked you, Mr. Conde, what you're going to do to defend the jobs that are at stake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u315	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Presas, you know perfectly well that the Welsh electricity tariff is not the solution, you know it perfectly well, but you and your group don't know it, you know it as a whole in the sector, and you know it as a whole of all the agents involved in this process. And you know it's not the solution for a very simple reason, and it's that your independent tariff is more expensive, simply. So, if it's more expensive, that can't automatically be the solution, either for the system set or much less for Alcoa. I think you've said a lot of qualitative performances and adjectives that I think you should correct, but anyway, I think your recipe is just a random estimate; they've been talking about electricity tariffs for four years and they haven't given a single data, none, and the reality is that that that rate is much more expensive, and I think, frankly, that they should leave that independentist speech that Spain steals us and know that it only generates instability, and that in no case will it be the solution to Alcoa. In any case, you move me that we're looking for guilty. No, we're not looking for any culprits, we're looking for solutions, and the solutions you have to provide to the Administration, who has competence in the matter, and we actually make proposals, and that's what we're working on. And we're working at the work table together with the representative unions, along with the central government and the other autonomous community -- you know -- and we're also working with the own electro-intensive companies. We have one element in common, which is that we are looking for a stable electrical frame. Unfortunately, the State Administration, which has the competences, is doing absolutely nothing to find that electrical framework and to establish electrical incentives for the year 2019 that meet the needs of electrointensive companies. The power supply just brought in was a reduction in the price allocated to electrointensive companies, and that's why we're working, and this very morning we're having a meeting with electrotensive companies and we're agreeing to raise a concrete proposal that I'm going to detail in the reply so that the Galician Union can establish, together with the Central Government, a concrete proposal. Unfortunately, what we have right now is a government that is inactive, that is not providing solutions and that is not focusing on the problem of Alcoa where it is, which is in the electrical frame. And if we were working in that direction and you were supporting this government, surely the Alcoa and Ferroatlantic workers would have more hope... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u317	Thank you, Mr. Count. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u318	He dares to insist on me, Mr. Count, I'm going to be older to put myself at this point in my life to give up the independent speech. I didn't mean to. [[Applause]] It's a shame, I feel I'm a BNG Member and not a PNV, which is the independence that the People's Party likes most, but, in any case, because you look at yours. [[Applause]] What I would ask you is that when you come to answer this parliament for a little bit of respect you give up those prefabricated arguments and answer what you're asked. Because I've talked about a lot more than the possibility of a discount because it's an overstatement. And in fact, you're talking about that meeting you had this morning, and I insist again, why is the social part lacking at that meeting? It would be nice if you, in addition to the employer, also met with the unions. I'm surprised to see today a press release from the Galician board asking — which I think is great — a reduction in the fees; now of course, when asked by the BNG is illegal, when asked by the Galician board not. [[Applause]] Finally, among other things, today I also saw — in the press — that you were talking about the issue of CO2. You know as well as I, Mr. Conde, that over a month ago — more than a month ago — you have a detailed proposal on your table for a stable industrial tariff, endorsed by a union force that was received in Brussels by a Commissioner for Energy, who is from the People's Party, from the same party as you, when here in Galicia there has not yet been an assessment of that proposal. I don't think so, Mr. Conde, is that at this point in the game, with which we are playing as a country, you simply feel with sectarianism who you want, rather than everybody else, and don't be worthy of valuing serious proposals like those that are being made since nationalism. We insist, we feel all sides talking about a stable industrial tariff, and we do not give up having to crash at the state table to ask for public intervention, which is a possibility that, unfortunately, is getting closer to having to ask, because there is no way out of the way. I will simply finish, Mr. Count, by sincerely wishing you much more luck in negotiating a stable industrial tariff than the one you had with the nefarious pox, which not only put Alcoa at risk, but also now Ferroatlantic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u319	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. For the Government's reply, the Economic Counsellor, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u320	Mrs. Presas, this isn't an old matter, eh! this is a matter of knowledge and country vision. Unfortunately, you seem to constantly confuse in knowledge the competence of different administrations, and, of course, from the point of view of the country's vision, when you bring me here a proposal that goes against the general interests of the Greeks, because logically this government cannot be in favour, with which it does not shield itself at the age and it hides itself in the knowledge and vision of the country, and so surely we can move on. In any case, the situation is very simple, there is a government that has powers in the field of energy policy, which knows that it has to respond to the needs of electro-intensive companies, and that unfortunately at this time there is no response at all, nor from the perspective of the power supply, which actually reduced revenue by 30%, nor from the point of view of the compensation mechanisms that will be applied in 2019, nor of the total incentives, and therefore of the energy price that our companies can compete with. And what this government is defending is something very simple, it's asking the Government to set up an electric framework for the year 2019 that allows our intensive companies to compete on an equal basis for the rest of the European Union. Something as simple as accessible, simply applying the rules and measures that are developing third countries. And that's why today's proposals for electro-intensive companies go in that direction. We call upon the Government to approve immediately, and not within six months, the status of electro-intensive companies; that it can be defined who is an electro-intensive company and who is not an electro-intensive company; and that from there concrete measures are established, and these measures are established not only by the application of the interruptability hub, but also by the reduction of the electrical charges linked to the cost of transport, and also by those CO2 compensation mechanisms, which were not fully implemented in 2018 nor were implemented in 2019. So it's not a subject of demagogy, which is what you bring here in age shielding this parliament, it's a subject, simply, of knowledge and concrete proposals that allow companies to have a concrete answer. So, I think you should stop looking for conflicts, Mrs. Presas, here you don't look for conflicts, don't look for them in this chamber. We are working in defense of the workers and the workers of Alcohol, and we are going to do everything possible and what is not so that the Government can give a concrete answer to Alcoa and to the electrointensive companies, and in that defense to me what I would like is that it was also its parliamentary group, and that its group does not seek the conflict of conflict. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u321	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by da Sandra Vázquez Domínguez and six other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the measures being taken by the Government of Greece to contribute to consolidating the effort at R & D+i, which is being carried out, especially in the wake of the Galicia Innova 2020 Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u322	To put the question, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u323	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. Yesterday, in this same parliamentary chamber, the budgets were approved for next year 2019. It's good news for Galicia, because we're the first autonomous community to have the public accounts that allow us to continue working for the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks, thanks once again to Galicia's stability. It has political stability — thanks to a stable government —, economic stability and institutional stability. Ladies and gentlemen, EUR 9,850 million, the fruit of work and the measures taken by this government. Over the past few days, the data published by the National Institute of Statistics on R & D activities have become known, in which it is apparent that Galicia is the second autonomous community in which most spending in R & D increased in 2017, specifically more than 13%, at levels prior to the crisis. So this data lets you verify that Galicia is consolidating an innovation ecosystem connected to productive reality. On the one hand, with the ability to boost sustainable long-term economic growth, and on the other hand with the ability to generate new opportunities and quality jobs. The Galician Innovation Agency, which belongs to its Board of Directors, is developing a key role for the development of this roadmap, articulating all sorts of R & D support instruments, ranging from funding to self-accompaniment, as well as access to the opening up of new markets, and even strengthening existing knowledge centres in the Galician community. The economic effort by this agency is also reflected in the budget increase for next year, reaching about EUR 97 million. In the meantime, Counsellor, in the Galician Parliament, statements were made yesterday by the opposition as if we were an innocent government. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is the autonomous community where spending on R & D increased most, more than 13%, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Counsellor, this is not important for the opposition, but from the parliamentary group we believe it is, and that is why we want to know what measures it is taking to contribute to this R & D effort and to achieve this positive data. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u324	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Vázquez, indeed, the latest statistics from the National Institute of R & D Statistics found that the German Government has been defending this chamber for several years and the importance of intensifying all support with the various agents of the Greek innovation system, and thus focusing on business R & D as one of the most relevant industrial policy objectives. Over the past four years, the Government has been making a very important budgetary effort, and today the Galician Innovation Agency has a budget of almost 100 million euros, which means 87% increase over the year 2013. I think it's a sufficiently significant data, which reflects a continued effort by the Galician Union and all the Greek agents to allow Galicia today to speak in the key of an innovative autonomous community and an autonomous community that is betting on talent and that is betting on the transfer of knowledge. In these data, in fact, Galicia was in 2017, which is the last year of what we have data, the second autonomous community in which R & D increased: 570 million euros, with an increase of 13.3%, doubling the increase in the state average, and also from the point of view of staff employed in R & D activities; that is, that bet on the recruitment of talent linked to R & D, Galicia is also in autonomous communities that are growing more intensively, in particular the number of professionals the full day grew twice as much in Galicia as in the rest of Spain, with an increase of 9.6%, when in Spain that increase was 4.8%. It is a fact that we find particularly relevant in terms of personnel. For the first time since the beginning of this decade Galicia has surpassed 10,000 people employed in R & D both in companies and in knowledge centres, which confirms that, in fact, economic recovery and employment recovery are also talking about innovation and R & D key. In short, we're betting on innovation, a bet on talent, different performances, and especially putting people at the heart of innovation policy. We understand that the innovation policy of the Galician Union towards the coming years has to be focused on talent, and that's why the replica will tell you more than we will establish on the horizon of the year 2021 with the Talent Programme that we are going to launch in the next year of 2019.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u326	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. You have the floor for the reply to Mrs. Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u327	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Counselor, for I hope you could have a little bit more luck and that you could clarify the side of the opposition — with the data you have just commented on — because yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia was named as a wagon community of queues. From the data you just pronounced, Galicia is the locomotive of innovation, not the tail car, gentlemen. It seems they don't like the positive data that Galicia is having, and that's why, Counsellor, in your reply we also hear that the number of professionals in the full day grew twice as much in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Finally, Galicia leads R & D spending, and also leads the number of professionals on a full day. I mean, quality employment. It remains manifest by the Government of Greece that intensifies its efforts to support the agents of the Greek Innovation System. The People's Parliamentary Group commends the Council's efforts, and also the set of enterprises that make up business, because without them all this would not be possible either. To finish, Counselor, you were commenting at the end of your answer to my question on the steps that will be taken to consolidate that Galicia Innova plan. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u328	Thank you very much. Mr. Conde López has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u329	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Vázquez, in fact, Galicia knew how to cope with many difficulties, and at the moment of the economic crisis, the productive fabric and the administration themselves knew how to interpret that innovation and the development of new technologies was where our productive fabric was able to increase its competitiveness, and thus generate that capacity for job creation. And that reading was made both by the public administration and by the companies themselves and by the productive fabric themselves. Today I would particularly like to highlight that effort that we have made over the last few years so that companies increase their investment in R & D, and therefore there are new, new, small and medium-sized companies and new entrepreneurs who are betting on innovation. And the reality is that our companies' R & D spending already exceeds 50% of the total Greek. This is a particularly relevant data, because it means that we are being able to attract private investment in innovation. About EUR 290 million in 2017, compared to the 281 that was in 2018. There are over four thousand six hundred people dedicated to R & D in our productive tissue, which is the largest collective that is working in the private sector in the R & D field. So the business sector is betting on Galicia, there are investments in business R & D in Galicia, and that means Galicia is setting a path that leads it to the second autonomous community in 2017 that has increased its R & D effort. But, as I told you, this private sector effort is also accompanied by the efforts of the public sector, and there the Galician Innovation Agency with that budget of about 100 million euros is developing programmes that are demonstrating its effectiveness through the joint innovation units, attracting more than thirty-one investments of large multinationals, through the aid to the smart factory or through the development of the aerospace pole, which has already reached a planned investment of 157 million euros; in addition to the participation of the Ministry of Defence — through INTA, Indra and Babcock — we now have Boing's incorporation into an air security project. Galicia is demonstrating that it has that ability to attract investments because there is a clear bet for innovation and there we will continue to work on new initiatives in the coming weeks such as the Digital Innovation Hubs or the R & D+i Tax Incentives Program, which will be new measures that must allow Galicia to continue on that path of R & D both in the public and in the private sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u330	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, on the urgent actions of a budgetary or information nature which will be adopted by the Junta of Galicia to alleviate the effects that will have for thousands of families the loss of the Social Electric Bond
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u331	To put the question, Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u332	Good afternoon. Well, first I'd recommend, Mrs. Vázquez Domínguez, that you review the data they provided when she says Galicia leads the investment in R & D+i in Spain. [[Mr Vázquez Domínguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Revise! [[Mr Vázquez Domínguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Revise! [[Mr Vázquez Domínguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] So where does he lead him? [[Mr Vázquez Domínguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] If it's not in Spain, where? I mean, he did. [[Mr Vázquez Domínguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] And he says it's the one that grows most in Spain. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u333	But, man, was that a question to the counselor? Please! [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. Listen to everyone. Silence! And you focus.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u334	Yes, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u335	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! Silence! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u336	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u337	Well, focus on it. Focus on what's missing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u338	As before, Mr. Counsellor came out for me as well as myself when I was talking about specific matters, with-believe us!, he started talking about nuclear, thermals... I've already said that we'll talk about it and we've talked about it many times. They don't circumvent the specific issues. Well, the real thing about R+D+i is that Galicia actually grows. But that's as if a father or mother had said: my baby grew from 1 meter to 1.20, then he's more able to play in the NBA than Paul Gasol, who measures 2.20 and doesn't grow anything. That's reasoning, that's data manipulation; if they grow, but we're in investment in terms of GDP. Check the data! [[Murmurs.]] Well, let's go to the question. [[Murmurs.]] No, it's to explain how information here is handled scandalously. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The information is handled scandalously. [[Murmurs.]] Let's get to the point. [[Murmurs.]] As you know, Counselor, and as we have been alerting for more than a year, on December 31st, there will be a true — from the media — to escape in the Greek homes. In fact, out of the two hundred and thirty thousand homes that had the social bond, only 60 thousand were able to renew it. Well, a lot of people around here are funny, of course, they don't get cold in their homes. No, I don't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I, of course not, but I don't laugh about it. But I don't laugh about it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't get cold, but I don't laugh about it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u339	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u340	The situation is worse also because all these people who are going to lose the electric social bond are going to lose protection against light cuts. We could find ourselves in January with thousands of homes in Galicia to those who cut their light for not being able to pay the receipt, that's an obvious reality. And the response of the Galician Union, what is it?, because it provides an budget to be able to meet a maximum of 3,000 homes and only those at risk of social exclusion, that is, those who enter less than 400 euros a month. Do you really think that a pensioner or pensioner entering 600 euros is not in energy poverty? And what would be totally more regrettable is that because of the bureaucracy of the social bond implemented in Mr. Rajoy's government, as well as in the supplement... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u341	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u342	They're taking me off all the surgery.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u343	No, you take sixteen... silence! [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u344	Well, I'm done counting everything that interrupted me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u345	No, no, stop it, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u346	I understand that the social bond is totally alien to Mr. Pazos, who is most likely to die of laughter. They don't know what poverty is!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u347	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u348	I travel around their neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u349	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u350	Counselor, are you going to do something?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u351	No, it's over. It's over!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u352	No, he didn't give me time to ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u353	Man, because you spoke for a minute and a half of another matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u354	I just can't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u355	No, Mr. Casal. No, look... No, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u356	No, look, Mr. President, I can understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u357	Excuse me, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u358	...that the insensitivity to the poverty of these gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u359	No, no, no! I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u360	...it's incredible!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u361	I'm sorry. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Casal, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u362	There's insensitivity to poverty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u363	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u364	Counselor, are you going to do something?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u365	I'm sorry. You've got to finish!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u366	I'll be done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u367	No, no, no, no. That's it, that's it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u368	I'll be done. Counselor, before the debacle that will take place in January...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u369	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u370	Are you going to do something?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u371	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u372	...or do you think to die of laughter like Mr. Pazos?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u373	Thank you very much. [[Murmurs.]] You have the word... [[Murmurs.]] Look... silence, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]] I understand that every time a Member intervenes, sometimes he wants to make reference to what has just been spoken, and there is no problem because it is always allowed. Of course, the references are made that way. If anyone chooses still above to make a prolonged reference, he won't pretend that if he adds time to it, that's not the case. Time is there and you can follow it each. It's okay to finish a sentence or end a sentence and peak. It's okay! But, of course, what we're not going to add the time that's used to talk about other matters. In addition, Article 104 of the Rules of Procedure makes it clear that we cannot talk about issues already discussed, which must be focused on the matter. We've left it to you and to anyone, because it always does. So, please, focus on the matter. And when it's zero, it's over. What he used for what he wanted, then trouble him!, finish his time. Thank you very much. [[Murmurs.]] The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor. [[Murmurs.]] Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u374	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, the truth is I don't know what I have to answer about R & D or the electric bond. But I'm going to answer the two questions that you moved me. They're data from the National Institute of Statistics, and therefore they're proving that Galicia is on the right track. Why? Because you're making an effort from the administration and because the private sector is also betting on Galicia. And in 2017 Galicia was the second autonomous community with more investment in R & D, so it overcame and doubled the growth of the Spanish economy. And if we're talking about R & D investment with respect to gross domestic product — which I was also wondering — I should know that we are the third autonomous community with the greatest increase. That's the data and, therefore, turning the data around and trying to confuse, I think it's not reasonable. And above all, to express that effort so much from the public point of view with that 87% increase in the budget in the Galician Innovation Agency since 2013 and also that bet on private investment. But we are talking about the social bond and reality that affects and concerns citizens — and Galicia has made it clear — this Council of Galicia has made it clear that support measures must be promoted. And we were pioneers in 2014 when we implemented in Galicia the electric ticket through a regulatory base and guaranteeing the rights of all citizens to accommodate the aid. And we've also been pioneers this year with the launch of the Welsh electric bond, because we don't forget that the Greek electric bond is the complement that sets out the real decree that regulates the state social bond and allows the Greeks to benefit themselves — the vulnerable consumers at risk of social exclusion — that the Galician Union pays 50% of the electricity bill. So be free and ensure uninterruptibility of the service. We have a budget of €1.3 million and we have guaranteed all consumers that have that situation that can accommodate that help. So we're simply strengthening our commitment to vulnerable consumers. And in this new call we'll keep the Greek social bond open by increasing the count by 20%, reaching the 450 euros, precisely by the increase in consumption that established the state itself. Therefore, we are giving that answer with agility, with a vocation of service, with transparency and heeding, Mr. Casal, all the requests that meet the requirements. A measure that is having a positive impact on families who need it most, and we will continue to accompany those needs with measures that complement the social bond...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u375	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u376	...and to allow Galicia to be at the vanguard of attention and sensitivity to the needs of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u377	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u378	Well, I see they're not gonna do anything about a real emergency. You tell me... yes, yes, if I know what you said, you have a budget to help 3,000 families. [[Mr. Conde López utters words that are not perceived.]] Three thousand families to 450 euros, multiply. [[Mr. Conde López utters words that are not perceived.]] Multiplier we already know most here, and 450 times 3,000, give 1.3 million euros, it's easy! Well, three thousand families. Do you know what the IGE says about how many families there are in Galicia at risk of social exclusion under the conditions of the social bond? I'm sure he knows, eighty thousand. So you feel satisfied when you reach four percent of the families who need it. Well, this is the attitude of this government. We think that the situation is much more serious than you're running, because it's not just the situation of those eighty thousand families at risk of social exclusion, but the other one hundred and fifty thousand who are left without social bonus on bureaucratic matters. And we think that the Galician Union has to do something, not just budget, but information. There can't be a lot of people who have no social bonus on 31st day, and when the January receipt comes, they find out the unpleasant surprise of the increase they have in the bill -- in people who each euro costs a lot -- without even knowing it. Because there's a lot of people who don't even know that on 31st the social bond is going to expire. And don't tell me that it's normal that a measure that's been implemented for a year only 25% of the theoretical beneficiaries have been able to ask for it; some mistake has to be, something will have to do. And let's not blame anyone, but just act. Let the Galician Union say: well, the decree was poorly developed, the next government went on without developing it, and the Galician Union is going to do something, but don't get hand in hand waiting for the requests, which I'm telling you what's going to happen: if they follow in this attitude they'll save the three thousand families...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u379	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u380	...that he intends to help. Please, Counselor, do something!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u381	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. You have the floor for the Government's reply, Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry Counsellor, Mr. Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u382	But, Mr. Casal, if there is a real decree that regulates the social bond of the State and states that the State increases from 25 to 40 per cent, depending on the situation of vulnerable consumers, the aid for the payment of the electric receipt and establishes and regulates the real decree that autonomous communities and municipalities have to provide 50 per cent in cases of risk of social exclusion, listen, this government has taken that situation to Law 7/2017 — that you voted against, by the way — to regulate the electric social bond, and therefore in Galicia there was assurances that vulnerable consumers at risk of social exclusion could not only benefit from the social welfare of the State, but also from the Greek electric bond. Don't tell me we're not doing anything. Don't tell me we don't do anything when those aids that are already implemented in 2018 are going to continue in 2019 with a budget of 1.3 million euros, expandable if necessary. Therefore, we will meet all requests that meet the requirements. Of course we're doing it! It is true that the change of beneficiaries of the social bond is assuming that at present there are fewer beneficiaries. And it will surely be a subject that will have to review the state itself, supported by you, by the way. And, in fact, you know that in the old social bond the beneficiaries were the numerous families, the unemployed, pensioners and — you know it well — all users who had a contracted power of less than three kilowatts; and now the social bond was established according to income. So you don't compare the previous beneficiaries of the social bond with the current ones, because they're not comparable. And the reality is that the current social bond, developed by the Government of Mariano Rajoy and improved by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, sets out some help that the Government of Galicia also complements with the social electric bond. So, of course, we're doing things thinking, precisely, about the needs of families who need it most. How? By over 50% of the electricity bill and ensuring that supplies are not cut off to those vulnerable people who meet the criteria set by the Royal Decree. So we will continue to work, we will continue to implement measures and we will remain sensitive to the needs of the Greeks in order to meet the cost of the electric bill. Measures that must be linked to the social bond of the State, to the social bond and to the Greek electric bond, and measures that logically we must work together between the different administrations. But I believe that there is no need to confuse people and, in fact, the Galician Union is pioneering in implementing measures that can benefit vulnerable consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u383	Thank you very much, Counselor. We now turn to the accumulated debate on questions to the Government documents 40523 and 41598, in accordance with Article 159.1 of this Regulation. Question by Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and three more MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures taken by the Government of Galicia to ensure the future of the Galego Centre of Bos Aires, preserving its artistic, documentary and bibliographic heritage, as well as the health services it provides to the associated persons Question by Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Galician Union to safeguard the Galego Center of Buenos Aires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u384	To put the question, Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u385	Good afternoon, Counselor. We talk about domestic Galician affairs, but we also have to talk about external Galician matters. In the question that we also asked him on January 23, on the very occasion of this question, we remembered how the centre, born in 1907, was a reference and is a reference in the recognition and struggle for Galician autonomy, in which he died at Castelao in 1950 and that he had come to have recognition by the Government of Galicia with the Gold Medal of Galicia in 1990. The plenary of the Galaga Culture Council, also in January of this year and in accordance with both the commandments of the Law of Galicia and the Law of Cultural Heritage, established, with the presence of the president of the Union himself, the mandate of the Government of Greece to ensure that this very important cultural heritage contains the Galego Centre of Bos Aires. After eleven or twelve months of that question, Counsellor, the situation at the Galego Center in Bos Aires is more critical if it fits. The set of political forces of this chamber and the set of academic and social movements led this parliament to adopt an institutional statement in March in favor of the Galego Center in Bos Aires. But when we talk about the Galician Centre, we're talking about the whole problem of preserving the cultural heritage, but we're talking less about the whole problem of health care that they're receiving and the right of the mutualists themselves, the nearly five thousand mutualists from the Galician Centre. And in that sense, we also raised a number of questions from the Socialist Parliamentary Group about Spain and the participation of the Centre of Wales and Spain in this situation. In that answer to this question that we asked you, Counsellor, you were telling us that you were constantly paying attention and that you would take all the measures necessary to act in defense of that heritage that contains the centre of Galicia. Even you, accompanied by the Secretary General of Emigration in May on a visit that he made, guarantee precisely this heritage. It is announced for a short time — in principle by 29 this month, we do not know if it will be confirmed — a new set of mutualists from the Centre of Wales to make a number of decisions in relation to the future of the Centre. So, Counsellor, let us ask you again the same question, but expanded, ten or eleven months later, with a more aggravated crisis of the Galician Centre: what measures could you take or are you adopting the Galician Centre to preserve this very important cultural heritage, Galician historical memory, and also to preserve the guarantees and rights of health care that are under the control of the Galician Centre's own mutualists? Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u386	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. To put the question now you have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u387	Thank you very much. Counsellor, as you know, the Centre Galego is a centenary entity that has built migrants in Buenos Aires with great effort. It's an emblematic center, but now it's going through a critical situation, and since the BNG, what we say is that it's important, that it's urgent to act, because the loss of the center would mean the beginning of the dismantling of the heritage of Galician emigration. Of course there's a lot at stake: a hospital is at stake, but it's also at stake a whole cultural heritage, historical and symbolic fundamental. In this center, in that hospital there is the museum room — now closed — where Castelao died; a library with more than 20,000 copies; a collection of paintings with works of Castelao, Maside and Colmeiro, and the legacy of an editorial of the Galician Editions calibre. It's true that this center has been dragging problems since 2002, but it's now in a critical situation. And, of course, there is no one responsible in this situation: they have responsibility for the various directives of the Centre and they have responsibility for the Argentine Government. The Centre Galego is in charge and there's a clearly negligible management: since there's an intervener appointed by the Government of Macri, debt has been fired and the hospital has been dismantled, with a very clear objective that neither they deny, that is to sell this hospital. But we also say that there is a responsibility for the Galician Union, because all the decisions that have been made to the Union have led to this centre being like this. It is notorious that the president of the Union, Feijóo, tried to control the management of the Centre, but the candidate he supported failed. And from there begins a punishment to the Galego Center: the first was to dissolve the Galicia Health Foundation and the second was that dark operation by which the Galego Center was expelled from Ospaña, an operation where Alejandro López Dobarro, who was delegate of the Board in Argentina; Santiago Camba, who had many positions of responsibility in the Union, and also Antonio Rodríguez Miranda, the current secretary general of Emigration. Through a dark process they expel Spain and, in its replacement, they become part of a mutual that has been created very recently and that happens to preside over the same President of Spain. And in a process that they have to explain to us, they give this one the appointment of representatives in Spain of the Government of the State and of the United States. Someone has to explain to us how this decision was made, because we had to modify some statutes with a majority that we don't know how they could have and, above all, why the German Government is making decisions that clearly go against the viability of the Centre. Politically, the Centre can be saved, the hospital can be saved. The key, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u388	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u389	...and if they're gonna do something.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u390	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u391	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, not too long ago I had the opportunity to talk about this issue here in the House, also to some accumulated questions, both of the Bloc and of the Socialist Party, I remember; from that moment on there were no major changes, unfortunately, in the situation. There were some elections within the Galician Center, from which a journalist known as The Muxo came out — in which we have a great relationship, a good relationship — that has not yet taken possession, as a new direction of the Greeks in the Galician Center. And we also know by the media that a few days ago Mrs. Pontón was in Bos Aires on a visit and that I even think she had a meeting with one of the speakers responsible for managing the Galician Centre. First of all, we must say that we are glad that you are concerned about the situation of the Galego Center in Bos Aires and, of course, about the Greek community. This is a concern that we obviously share, and I don't even know if it will have to do with Mrs. Pontón's journey — said with all affection — which had been registered by urgent procedure. But, well, the truth is, we all share the concern about the center of Galicia, its cultural heritage and the situation of the Greeks. But the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, we think that if you are mistaken as a political enemy: the person responsible for this situation is not the Council of Galicia, it is not the German Government, but it is the more or less negligent management of the different actors appointed by the Argentine Government; the first, of course, by the Kirchner Government. But, well, what they're interested in is building an account where they try to transfer responsibility to Galician Union, and I'm going to do a memory exercise that I think is very good. They were the partners of the Galego Center who, in 2011, decided to withdraw Galicia Health from management of the Galego Center. The partners themselves! When you retire, the Board pays and leaves the counter to zero; it pays all your debts and pays all the wages of the Centre. And the Center worked better or worse, but it was still working, and it was completely sanitized, with management -- as you know -- done in private. Ladies and gentlemen, you know — because I believe it is public and notorious — that since the Government of Greece we have repeatedly demonstrated our commitment to the Greeks of Argentina, in particular to the Galego Center of Bos Aires, and that we have always been working and continue to work on preserving its heritage in the natural place, where it has to be, both by economic means and by institutional means. And you can be sure that we will continue to do so. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the German Government respects the will of the partners of the Galician Centre. And the known will of the partners of the Galego Center is to continue to preserve them and manage them, in Argentina, their cultural heritage, as they have done many, many decades in recent centuries. In fact, as you know, the management and property of the cultural, bibliographic, artistic and museum heritage has been out of negotiations in a possible and hypothetical purchase that was raised at the time, and that, of course, is a cause of tranquillity for all. That's why there's no reason to doubt now the management capacity of the Greeks and their heirs, who obviously converted the Galician Center into one of the reference places of emigration. And just as health management the truth is that it's not at all brilliant, or much less, if it's true that in the cultural sphere there's a better management, of course, but quite appropriate. And, of course, our position is the same: when there is a firm position in the center of Galicia, Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, it will be there. But in the meantime, what do we do? Did we buy it for you? To whom do we buy it, to the Greek collectives, to the Argentine government, to the creditors? What do we do with him? Where do we deposit or deposit? Or expropriate them if they don't want to sell it? Because as far as we know, they don't want to sell it, and I understand you won't want to expropriate the will of the Greeks living in Bos Aires. I think we'll be absolutely in agreement until then. Now, at the moment that there is the slightest certainty about what is going to happen and the slightest doubt about the evolution or dynamics of the cultural heritage that exists in the center of Galicia, Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, will be there without any doubt, but, in the meantime, we will have to wait for them to decide and make the decisions that need to be made democratically and freely by the citizens of Argentina. In the meantime, we'll be watching, collaborating and respecting our brothers from Galicia. In the field of health services, the truth is that there are many difficulties; of course, there are many difficulties. But, look, first of all, the state, with whom the Galician Union collaborates, has the tools for access to health care for the Greek immigrants who need it in Argentina. Secondly, we must not forget that the health service offered by the Galego Centre is a private service, of mutualists, of mutuals, which, of course, is a complementary service to the Argentine health service. By the way, and thirdly, Argentina — I think it is worse than, unfortunately, for the Argentines — has a universal health service that unfortunately does not count on the minimum standards of quality that we would like for any German or any Spanish. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, there is no deprotection or emergency, and, if there is one, the governments of Spain and the governments of Argentina have their responsibility, and the Council of Galicia of course is to collaborate and bring this situation forward. In any case — as I have already said — we have the status of the Centre Galego very clearly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u392	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u393	First, to preserve the rich cultural heritage and, second, to guarantee the health services of its partners. And we think that the Greek Government — while not making decisions within the very heart of the Galego Centre — has to be eager and has to know what is to be done so as not to expropriate — I insist — the will of the Germans of Bos Aires.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u394	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u395	Counsellor, by your words I have the slight feeling that the commitment of the Government of Greece to the Galego Center in Bos Aires is of lesser intensity than in January 2018. I hope we're not wrong. He was talking about possible solutions, why don't they work to link the Galician Centre back to the leadership of Ospaña, not in the opposite sense? Because, Counsellor, in April this year, the Argentine Government ruled that the Galego Centre had returned to conduct the social work of Ospaña, thus leaving without effect its previous resolution, which it had taken in 2015 and which disengaged the Galician Centre of this entity, created by the impulse of the Government of Turin, precisely to maintain the health care provided at the Centre. Since the Government Feijóo, in 2011, liquidated the management of the Galicia Health Foundation, the Galego Center of Bos Aires accidentally broke into a breach, ending up being intervened by Argentina's justice until today. The debts accumulated in more than $50 million, since that date, are now virtually terminally located in the centre of Galicia for their nearly five thousand associates, as I said before. This decision by the Government of Feijóo could have been related — as it was previously noted — to the fact that since 2010 no successful applications supported by the Council of Galicia to lead the Centre Galego?, I ask you. Without going further, in the last few weeks, to the Galego and Bos Aires Centre, neither the President of the Ourense Parliamentary, nor the Vice-President of the Union in the southern country, nor the Secretary-General of Emigration himself, nor the newly appointed Social Policy Adviser were they worthy to visit the centre, to visit its new directive. Not to mention the systematic management – as you know perfectly well, we all know – of the former Secretary General of Emigration, Mr. Camba, that since his responsibilities in Spain and since the Labour Agregation of the Venezuelan Embassy worked everywhere to remove the Galician Centre of Spain. [[Applause]] I don't know if it was reprisal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u396	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u397	...but if it was an absolute irresponsibility. They have a formula. We do not intend to intervene in the Galician Centre, Counsellor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u398	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u399	...to make it clear to their partners, but we do want the German Government to work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u400	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u401	...to preserve the heritage and to find solutions for the services provided by the Centre Galego. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u402	Thank you very much. For the reply as author of the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u403	Counselor, it is clear that you will not do anything at all. You're going to see if everything falls and you can pick up something, and we think that's not the attitude that the German Government has to face in this debate. Look, the members of the Galician Centre didn't want to disassociate with the Galician Foundation in Europe. Ask the president of the Galician Centre at that time what was their mandate. They brought a feasibility plan from the center that you didn't even study. Moreover, he felt betrayed when he saw how some people were fulfilling the mandate they brought from Argentina, which was to maintain the Foundation and maintain the viability of the hospital, because it was absolutely possible. You'll have to explain what happened and how they paid for that betrayal some people did at that time. Clearly, today the offices of the center are subjected to blackmail, why? Because you did a deliberate management of the Government of Macri to load the hospital, dismantle it and sell it; and I know perfectly well. I know absolutely what I'm talking about because I've been there, not like some people who just go through the interventions we've been doing since the opposition. Look, we think there are solutions, and the solutions happen because you're involved. Last year Mr. Feijóo was with Macri and told him he was very grateful for the work the Argentine Government was doing. We ask Mr. Feijóo to sit down with Macri to secure the hospital's future. Because if a clear offer is put today to ensure the viability of the hospital which also involves the Argentine Government, that hospital has a future. We want there to be assurances that the entire heritage will be preserved and preserved, and there are formulas that we can use from here. Why don't we name as a property of cultural interest to the room that Castelao died in? Because it's part of Galicia's cultural heritage. There's a fundamental problem here, Counselor, and it's just that you've decided, at the moment, to drop the center...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u404	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u405	...and today what we ask them to do is to comply with the mandate of this parliament, to guarantee the future of the hospital and to guarantee the legacy of Galician emigration to Argentina.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u406	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. The Minister for Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u407	Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, I am a little concerned, after listening to you, by your way of understanding politics, by your way of understanding the will of our Germans in Bos Aires and by your way of thinking and acting with a sovereign state as Argentina is. Why do I say that? First of all, Mr. Villoslada, our commitment today is absolutely the same as it was a few months ago, exactly the same. What's going on? We need to know that the stage exists at the Galego Center in Bos Aires, which unfortunately we don't know. Why? Because there's been an election, the new directive has not taken possession, there's a power vacuum and you don't know what they're going to do. When we know, we can act. You're saying — I think it's a lie — that the Board has left. No, no, it was the very users of the Galego Center who demanded him to leave for the Union, the partners themselves. From there, the Board left, left control, and the interveners of Government Kirchner and Government Macri managed this center, taking it to the break. You're absolutely wrong as an enemy, you're completely wrong as an enemy. The new directive did not take possession, when it takes possession, we will talk to them. What are you going to do? From there on, we have our roadmap very clear, and I repeat it. First, respect your will for the management of cultural heritage. And secondly, in case there is a risk or whether they will voluntarily want to do some kind of management, sell the collection or whatever, I tell you Galicia will be there, without any doubt, but, in the meantime, what are we going to do? Are we going to expropriate their cultural heritage? Because if you don't want to sell it, you'll understand that the only possibility is that you're going to expropriate. And of course, what is the action?, what do we do, buy, expropriate, or wait for things to be clear? And Mrs Pontón, who has been gathered around two hours—so we know—with one of the culprits—the Government must have information, Your Honor—that she has been nearly two hours together with the intervener, could tell us that the intervener has spoken to you, and that is what you really propose, because you are meeting with the person responsible for the situation, with the culprit in the situation, and from then on, of course... No, I gather, Mrs. Pontón, with the collectives... [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u408	Quiet, he's answering. Mrs. Pontón, when you... Mrs. Pontón, be quiet. Mrs. Pontón, please, when you asked the question, the counselor listened.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u409	...of the community, I meet with the ambassador of Spain and I meet with the Argentine Government, but I do not meet with the culprits of the current situation, like you. If you meet with the intervener, I don't know what deals or what information you give him or how he comes here and really proposes that, and above all you tell us that we're going there to declare BIC, interfering in a sovereign country. You think Argentina is a country of second division. How will you interfere in the property protection legislation of a sovereign country? Dear Lord, this is a novelty of nationalism, Mrs. Pontón, a real novelty of Greek nationalism. Look, you have little to tell us about the good relationship and work that is being done to preserve and value the cultural heritage that the Greeks have that reside in Bos Aires. A short time ago we launched an exhibition, bringing an iconic piece that many governments wanted to bring in and were unable to. And why? Because we were able to win — a word that seems not to exist, that is trust — the confidence of the Galician Centre, that other governments wanted to do and were unable to do. I'll also tell you that in the center of Wales, when there's some kind of problem, don't worry that Galicia will be there to preserve and value this heritage. And I also say that some statements, in which I see you, or some people who are very closely associated with the Galician Nationalist Block, are worrisome, they tell us that, in fact, cultural goods, cultural heritage, the Argentines have to be in Galicia, as if the Greeks who reside in Bos Aires had no right to manage, as they have been managing their heritage for a long time. So, really, you here are suggesting that we declare BIC Argentinian cultural goods, that we enter the current Galician center without knowing what we want to do, that we do not respect what they have told us. It's really a very worrying situation. And then, with regard to the field of health, I think I've already told you and I can repeat it, there are some state agencies, at the Argentine and Spanish level, which guarantee health care, and there are tools for access to health care. Obviously, Argentina's health, unfortunately, is not like Spanish and much less like Galician. And there's also a question that is to make a collective reflection. Obviously, Argentina's health is much better. A few decades ago it was much better than ours, much better, but it's no less true that the fact that Argentina was subjected to a succession of decades of political management of left-wing populism led to an absolute breakdown of the country. [[Murmurs.]] There's a book from a journalist who usually puts himself here, in these benches, called the Fifth Province. Then you can see how it describes that the constant use of absolutely populist and absolutely meaningless development by a government of which you will surely be very proud, as peronism, has led Argentina's health to the situation in which you are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u410	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the measures provided for by the Government of Greece for the conservation of the French Way as a heritage of humanity, specifically to its passage through the Town Hall of Touro
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u411	To put this question, you have the floor to Mrs. Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u412	Thank you, President. Counselor, our question today is motivated by a fundamental reason: the silence; its clamorous silence complicits before what may entail a serious aggression to our heritage. As you know, we are talking about the possible impact of the Touro-O Pino megaminery project on the Way of Santiago; an impact that the Mina Touro-O Pino platform itself has not come to denounce and corroborate a recent technical report of the International Committee of Monuments and Sites, Icomos, a UNESCO advisory body on the conservation of world heritage, which has already warned of the serious threats against the layout of the French Way. This report suggests that the project involves a clear violation of the rules of protection, which not only invades the French Way, but also involves the material destruction of its plot, violating the national and international legislation that is prevailing in the matter. It's been said that I'm reading textually what the report says. It must be remembered that for a cultural asset to be included in the list of world heritage, the administrations responsible for their custody must be responsible for a strict preservation of it to preserve its identity values. However, in the above-mentioned report, Icomos states that the performance of the Administration — his — contradicted the commitments made by promoting the inclusion of the Way of Santiago on the list of world heritage. In particular, it points out that it was not taken into account the need to prevent the World Heritage Committee from taking action, in reference to the aforementioned project of the Touro-O Pino copper mine. After a detailed study on what would be the affected section, it points out a long list of negative conditions that would end up causing the mining project, which include both the deterioration of the natural environment inherent in the Santiago Way, which according to the report would affect at least 2.7 million pilgrims in the time of mining extractive activity, such as the destruction of part of the protected Jacobean itinerary, between Quión and Arca, and of its cultural assets associated with the Way. The results of these affections, coupled with other aggressions suffered by the Jacobean route in recent years, as we speak this morning, imply a continued loss of the heritage values of the Way itself that can involve -- this is quite important -- a profound impact on its influence on the identity of the Way itself. As for the loss of identity, the report recalls: In the event of the loss of exceptional values by which a cultural asset was included in the list of world heritage, or that the State party does not solve the proven or potential dangers affecting good, it may be excluded from the list of world heritage by UNESCO. Excluded! The question is, Mr. Counsellor, of course, very clear: will you keep the silence complicit or will you protest loudly against this aggression? What are you planning to take the Board to preserve the French Way as the heritage of humanity as it passes through the Town Councils of Pino and Touro, in the face of the threat of reopening the mine? Either mine or way, Mr. Counsellor, both won't be possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u413	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u414	Mrs. Chao, as you know, one of the main tasks of the Council is to ensure the protection and preservation of the Greek cultural heritage, and of course the Way of Santiago, which is a source of pride and wealth for the country. And also tell him -- before you try to manipulate my words with what I'm going to tell him next -- that we have absolute respect and we always take very seriously the recommendation of Icomos, and we always collaborate and have a great job with them. As far as your question is concerned, you speak of silence. I will tell you that there is no silence, not much less, and that our posture is absolutely clear. On September 25, 2018, this 2018, months before receiving the report of Icomos, the Directorate General of Heritage issued a prior assessment of the Touro copper exploration project. This assessment, made by the technical services of the Directorate-General for Heritage, basically refers to the areas of competence of the Council itself, namely the protection of the heritage, particularly of the Ways of Santiago. What does this report say? This report, made by the Directorate General of Heritage, clearly states that the mine-affected area is not in the delimited layout of the Santiago Road or its buffer zone, so there is no damage or impact on it. In addition, the technical team of the board performs a positive pre-assessment, but sets out a series of precautionary measures that the project holder must comply with. These measures guarantee the protection of cultural goods that are close to the mine and that the company must ensure. In November, Icomos sent the board a report, which you cited in your question and in the explanatory statement. From there we wanted to talk to them, our technical services wanted to talk to them, there's no silence. It is true that we had a meeting for this month, and we have had to postpone it because of the indispensability of the affairs of Icomos at the state level, and this meeting is going to take place in January. And what will our technicians tell Icomos technicians? Well, they're going to basically talk about a series of questions. With regard to points 1 and 4, which are in the summary of the report you cited, you can say that where you say that you are Santiago's Way, we are not talking about known routes, delimited routes, or routes that are subject to protection within the field of cultural heritage, they are simply areas or paths that have to do with the Path directly or indirectly, but that in no case are paths that are neither recognized nor delimited, nor are they part of the cultural heritage. As far as points 2 and 5 are concerned, the assets you cite as well, here I can tell you that precautionary measures have already been incorporated. And with regard to points 3 and 5 they have to do with issues of parasitic incidence, and obviously it will have to be the corresponding sectoral body in this case that sets out precautionary measures, whether or not necessary. In any case, as you see, Your Honor, all the issues that are dealt with in the report you cited here have already been planned by our technicians in the previous assessment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u415	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u416	...and they're, as I said, out of the field of competence and what it has to do with Santiago's Way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u417	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. For the reply, by the author of the question, Mrs Chao Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u418	Thank you. Counselor, our question was about Icomos' report, not his reports, and you know why? Because his reports did not consider such things as the destruction already carried out today by the mine of a castle, as was the castle of the Cup. So, of course, that's what makes us suspicious. In the face of those assaults, you didn't say anything and you didn't do anything. Fortunately, there are other organisms that do their work, as Icomos cited today. That mine affects the way this organism says, says the platform "Mina Touro-O Pino, no," tells it the associations of friends and friends of the Way, tell it the neighbors and neighbors, and you, the most responsible in conservation of Galicia's heritage, don't know or answer, or you don't care, we don't know. And that, despite the fact that we must insist that this report of what we are talking about is prepared by the experts of the reference body on the conservation of the world heritage, not any of them, confirms that we are facing one of the greatest threats to the conservation of the Way of Santiago as a cultural asset of universal value. That's why he has on the table the demand, as a responsible administration, to put all the means that the law makes available to him to prevent what would most likely become the greatest heritage attack suffered by Santiago's Way into the Greek floor. The thing seems serious! It seems you haven't read the report, so we're going to try to synthesize the most serious consequences. First, serious negative impact with the possibility of disappearance of the historical branch of the Way that joins Arzua with Amenal. Second, serious negative impact with the possibility of the disappearance of the 1 and 2 upper pens and the cupboard, which has already been badly damaged. Third, an important negative condition of the landscape, environmental and intangible values of the territorial area that forms the environmental environment of the Santiago Way and which impresses its character. Fourth, negative impact on the Historical Way, path from Rosas-Loxas to San Sadurniño, element that structures the path that links San Sadurniño with the historical branch. Physical and visual interference from the Ferral mill. This very interesting itinerary is collected in the Galician Geometric Charter of Sunday Fontán, referred to as the provincial road. In the county of Pino, it retains its track and road infrastructure, two bridges, autochthonous vegetation, hermitage and church, which are threatened by the project. Indeed, Counsellor, knowing these consequences, these great threats that could possibly be lost in the world heritage condition, will they continue without showing their unanimous rejection by the project? It's about what we want it to stand for. Are you in favor or against?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u419	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u420	Mrs. Chao, I have already answered you on the basis of the technical reports of the general management. I understand that you don't like it and that you prefer to talk about another matter. I've already named you, of the five points that you quote, which are in this report, and I've told you exactly what the position of the technicians of the General Heritage Directorate is, because this is not an arbitrary decision, this is not that the general director or the advisor or the president or whoever wakes up in the morning and say, make a report like that. You, if you really think that, I'm also concerned; I'm also concerned that you think that. The points you cited are overshadowed and raised absolutely by our technicians, which I've already told you are willing to go and talk to Icomos — to whom we have a great relationship — to explain to you what I've already explained to you in a very careful and very synthetic way. You're talking about mammals, mills, where there are precautionary measures already put forward in the heritage report. And it speaks of some roads, some roads, which may be very important but which are not, in any case, part of the declared heritage of mankind of the Way of Santiago, but of routes that may be more or less close but which have nothing to do with the Way of Santiago in a direct way. What you are proposing, your doubts, has already been provided for in this report and has also been proposed as demands, as precautionary measures, to the company itself. For what? To preserve and to avoid any threat to the heritage. And of course, we're talking about routes, roads and clues that are absolutely out of the scope of protecting the cultural heritage of the Way. This answer that I tell you here very deeply and very quickly, based on the time we have, of course, is what our technicians want to pass on to Icomos technicians, so that they realize that in no case the condition of the Touro mine affects the Santiago Way, in no case. As I've already told you, the protection of Santiago's Way is guaranteed, and what you're proposing here is a sort of... they actually show that the mine is authorized. Mine is in the process of environmental assessment, absolutely in the process of environmental assessment. You're here thinking and presenting as a certain fact something that's in an administrative process that, by the way, if it wasn't handled, would be a prevarication. In which, really, it's surprising how you interpret political management and administrative management. I repeat, the mine is neither in the trace nor in the buffer zone of the Way, that is, the zone of influence, the area that has precautions for cultural protection and protection of cultural heritage. Therefore, the exploitation project may have other conditions, other sectoral bodies will have to say so, but, from the heritage and cultural point of view, the exploitation project has no effect on it. It has no effect on the field of competence of the Council of Culture and Tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u421	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Ms Eva Solla Fernández, from G.P. of En Marea, on the opinion of the Galician Board of Directors on the use of the staff of the Povisa Hospital by the company that manages this hospital when it is demanding more public resources
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u422	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u423	Thank you, President. Well, good afternoon again, Mr. Padre. Look, we've been asking you a few weeks ago about this circumstance, when we applied for the company's accounts, and, of course, since you started this company's entire conflict asking for more public funds, we knew you were going to give in. We knew that, we knew the users and users of public health, those 137,000 people who have to go to public health care because of a decision by the People's Party, and obviously it seems that they knew almost everyone, and that was a circumstance -- it's gone back to me and I'm not going to repeat everything I said in the previous question -- that we know from the minute you did the Galician Health Service dependent on Povervisa's health care, which the Board of Auditors already says structurally. The concert was renewed in several annuities, and before it was renewed in 2014, you were in charge of reducing the project of Vigo's new hospital for that time so that right now you needed the beds that were still offering your own company. We're left with the re-ordering of beds, with 517 fewer beds, so that we can continue to guarantee Mr. Silveira's business, so that you protect, like former Moscow's Rocky Counsellor, so that you don't have to come to a commission of investigation of the cuts. That situation has led you to renew the 2014 concert, but in a situation that we denounce again and again here, which was causing very serious job problems: lay-offs, precarious work, cut-offs to the staff, and hence a decline in the quality of care, but also continuous abuse of the more than a thousand workers and workers in the company. You guys started a negotiation with the company without having the accounts deposited in the Commercial Register. We denounced this circumstance, we applied for the accounts, and they weren't deposited in the Mercantile Register. And by the time we had those accounts, Mr Almuña, we were able to verify — by consulting different economic experts — that the company had no difficulties in the short term. This was one more object from the beginning to get more public money, using as hostages at all times some workers who, now that you have decided again, once again, 10 million euros —9.6 — to the company, do not get in exchange an improvement in working conditions, with which, Mr. Almuño, we are left with 9.6 million euros less for public health, with fewer labour rights and with assistance, again, conditioned by their mismanagement, Mr. Almuña. What is your opinion, after all this and the agreement they have just signed, that workers and workers should be used as currency of exchange to demand more public resources? Do you agree with what you've just done, handing you back 9.6 million euros without any wage improvements, no job improvements and no improvements in the health care of several districts?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u424	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. For the Government's answer, you have the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u425	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For 40 years now, even before the transfer of health care from Health to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, an agreement was already formalized with the Policlinico de Vigo, Povervisa. As you know, in 2006 a basic health agreement was signed in the Health Area of Vigo between the Health Council, the general secretaries of the UGT unions, the Workers' Commissions and CIG, the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs, the University of Vigo and Povvisa. Its purpose was to guarantee employment in the health sector in the region of Vigo, both in the public and in the private sector providing concerted assistance, so it could be affected as a result of the construction of the new university hospital in Vigo. Concerts that were signed up to that time with Povvisa were concerts by activity held, within a portfolio of services and with a protected population for several municipalities in the Vigo area. The September 2014 concert, with a period of eight years of execution since its formalization, is a capitivity-based concert, i.e., to assign a maximum population for hospital coverage services and to establish a capitulation in the form of payment for the population that had chosen that center to receive its attention; by the way, that it had opted for its attention, it was decided by citizens. The first thing to highlight from this concert is that the population freely chooses to receive health care in one center or another. For the first time since the formalization of concerts with Povervisa, citizens in the Vigo area can choose to receive health care at the center of their choice, always respecting the maximum number of populations fixed at the concert, which is 139,000 inhabitants. By the end of March 2018, Povisa sent a letter to Sergas indicating the complicated economic situation of the company as a result of the accounting losses it had recorded in the last three years, and requested the possibility of establishing an economic and financial rebalancing of the contract. Since Sergas, information was requested immediately, with the aim of assessing and believing the situation, and trying to achieve, within the context of the concert, solutions that would ensure the maintenance of the care quality of patients and, at the same time, the fulfilment of the obligations of the workers. By Sergas we understand that the conditions of the concert have been met, so you have no responsibility for the situation that Povervisa has moved. The reality is that the indicator to which this evolution was referred, and which is published annually by the INI, had no increase in recent years, which resulted in the captain being stagnated at the same amount as in 2014, without evolution, as was normally expected, however, the hospital cost has grown significantly in these years. As mentioned above, since April 2018 Sergas has been holding different meetings and exposing different possibilities and alternatives to the object of being able to search for solutions within the framework of the contract, with two single premises, which were to continue to maintain the level of care quality of the people signed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u426	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u427	...and maintain the stability of an excellent professional template. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u428	Thank you very much. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u429	He didn't answer our questions, Mr. Almuño. And, honestly, it seems to me to be a management at least no longer questionable, but a disaster on its part -- one more that accumulates in management in recent months. I'm surprised you're still sitting in that chair. Look, Mr. Almuña, given the accounts you refused to facilitate, and when you started trading without being in the Commercial Register, there is no risk of collapse due to short-term defaults, the company has a balance. In fact, although there have been losses in the last three years, if you consult the accounts, Mr. Almuína, there is more outstanding balance than payment: 21.3 million euros outstanding in 2017, and 17.1 million euros outstanding. So there's no problem, never existed, of short-term viability, something else is in the medium term. And what we've been demanding from En Marea and generally from the health-care platforms, the neighbors, the neighbors and even the workers, is that health care should be guaranteed. You've been playing with 137,000 cartons, threatening and commercial to hand over, once again, money to a company. Mr. Almuña, even if you hadn't paid him and the money was insufficient, the company could still go to the external financing of its own banks or to the financing of its own multi-millionaire and profitable business group each year, Mr. Almuña. And by the way, when workers and workers were used — even those who were cut off the hours, those who were harmed at all times, those who were despised until they made a hunger strike and had to support the company and health care of 137,000 people — while that happened — 2017 accounts, Register Mercantil — paid benefits, paid salaries to the board of directors and senior management. Board of Directors, 2017, EUR 800,825; and senior management, EUR 546,210. You said it, Mr. Almuinha! Why did they use 137,000 hostages and the professionals who are holding...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u430	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u431	...this company?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u432	Thank you very much. For the replica shift, on the part of the Government, the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u433	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, today we have reached an agreement with the Povisa company with several measures to make this concert much more efficient. The Galego Health Service will assume outpatient medication for external patients in Povervisa. The agreement, which is enshrined in several measures, will enable us to continue to work more efficiently on the execution of the concert and to maintain the safety and quality of health care. Outpatient dispensation medication for external patients will be supplied — as I say — by Sergas. For his part, Povervisa will keep the duties of the hospital pharmacy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u434	Sorry, Counselor. Give your voice to the scene. Now. [[Pause.]] That's it. I'm sorry. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u435	I'm saying yes, that you've reached an agreement. And I say the measures taken in that new agreement, which is that the medication of outpatient dispensation for external patients will be supplied by Sergas. Povervisa, for his part, will maintain the duties of the Hospital Pharmacy Service in controlling these drugs. In order to process this pharmacological prescription, Povervisa must implement the Silicon system, which is the one used by Vigo's EOXI. You will need to adjust to the Pharmacotherapeutic Guide in protocols of these products, also approved by Vigo's EOXI. Comply with the same controls used in Vigo's EOXI when prescribing medicines. That is, more control and, of course, equity in the system; there will be the same treatment, regardless of the specific area where you live in the Vigo metropolitan area. In addition, we have other measures within this amendment, which is the Waiting List Reduction Program, Perle, for patients assigned to Povervisa, already conducted this year. The agreement also specifies the realization of additional activity, such as the care of patients on Vigo's EOXI waiting list and the realization and follow-up of complementary tests to patients from the colon cancer screening program. Even so, the invoicing of processes out of concert, such as agreeing specific prices for services that are not collected in the Order of Tariffs, or those for which they are deemed necessary by their specific conditions or their volume. The maximum amounts for the billing of assistance provided to the population of Povervisa in the centres dependent on Vigo EOXI and issued by Povervisa for the assistance provided to patients not belonging to the assigned population will also be set. The funding of the concert between Sergas and Povervisa establishes a capital system, through the allocation of a captain by each user who opts to receive hospital assistance through a free choice system. With regard to teaching and specialized health training, Sergas will also assume the costs of the resident doctors who incorporate Povervisa, in the accredited specialty squares of this centre for the advance training, in the first years of training in its rotation as R1, R2 or R3; R4 and R5 will be assumed by the Povervisa clinic. And we also cover the teaching needs provided for by the regulations for all family residents who can rotate around this center. So we continue to improve the relationship and effectiveness of this concert to try to give the population the highest quality. And, as I say, always trying to maintain the working conditions of all the professionals who perform...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u436	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u437	...his task in this field. And, of course, as I say, we will maintain the highest quality controls of the service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u438	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by José Manuel Rey Varela and ten other G.P. Members Popular of Galicia, on the state of processing of the file and the estimated deadlines by the board for the initiation of the remodeling works of the University Hospital Complex of Ferrol
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u439	To put the question, Mr. King Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u440	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Counsellor, very late. As it is known, the university hospital complex of Ferrol is a health care reference for 200,000 Welsh and Welsh people, who live in the district of Ferrolterra. We will also demonstrate the importance of this hospital complex: 15,000 revenues in the last year, 7,000 surgeries, 64,000 emergency care and 288,000 consultations. A complex that is also composed of three hospitals: the architect Marcide, the Naval and the Novoa. The Marcide Architect with 47,000 square meters and the Naval with 39,000 square meters. It may seem a very important surface, but, given the increase in health care throughout Galicia, and also in the district of Ferrolterra, it has become small and, above all, with a need for major renewal for many years. From that need, the Government of Galicia introduced in April 2017 the Master Plan that we had been waiting in Ferrol for some time. The Plan Director includes an important renovation of existing installations and also a very important expansion. It will call for a major change in care for 200,000 Welsh people: new facilities in the kitchen, dressing room, emergency room, pharmacy, nephrology, hospitalisation, ICU or pediatrics. A plan that has a very good welcome among health care workers because their professionalism in many cases is improved, with an improvement in the facilities they work in and in which they care for people. A month later from the presentation by President Feijóo and yourself of that Plan Director, he referred to the Council of Ferrol the proposal for a collaborative agreement to make this important investment a reality; an agreement which reiterates the Council of Galicia a year later, in May 2018. At the moment — for the information we have — the Ferrol Council has not replied to the signing of that cooperation agreement. Also four months ago, the works license was applied for in order to make reality a very important investment for Galician health, but — if I may — much more important for Ferrol's health and its entire territory. In addition, yesterday the budgets of the Council of Galicia, which are reserved for the year 2019, were even approved. 10 million euros. For all this, and given the concern and interest of this group, we would like to ask you, what is the current situation in which the file is located? How long does the board manage to make this important investment happen? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u441	Thank you very much, Mr. King Varela. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u442	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, there's good news for the Ferrol area, which has a hospitalization that, of course, is quite improved. But that is why we are going to make a master plan which, as I said, has been presented a while ago to renew the infrastructure in which health care is provided in this area of Ferrol. But not only at the architect Marcide Hospital, but also at the remodeling of the Naval Hospital. We started the zero-phase performances, we're already working on it. Pre-execution works prior to hospital expansion. At this time, the reform was carried out at Naval Hospital to locate the Laboratory of Pathological Anatomy, an adjudicated work amounting to EUR 1,088.000, received already in August 2018; a great service of Pathological Anatomy. In January 2019, the construction of an interim kitchen at the Naval Hospital will begin, to supply — let us say — during the transfer, which will be assessed by the amount of EUR 1,065,000. The laundry works at Ferrol Naval Hospital are also pending to adjudicate, with an amount of 2.8 million euros. In March 2017 we published a Resolution announcing the formalization of the drafting contract of the Director Plan, and the drafting of the basic and execution project of Phase 1. This basic phase 1 execution project is already supervised and approved by Sergas, and since August the municipal licence has been requested. The announcement before the bid of the DOUE has also been published, which will allow the deadlines for the start of the recruitment process. As I have said, in August this year we are applying for the construction license of the basic project and the execution of this phase 1, the extension of the south and this one buildings, which include services that will need more urgently a change, such as the Emergency Service or the Pharmacy area. These new buildings will also host the Day Hospital, Cardiology, Dialysis, ICU and Neonatology, External Consultations and Cabinets, Management, Management and Administration, Nephrology and dialysis, Pediatrics, Paediatric ICU, Adult ICU, and New Hospitalization. The Naval Hospital will perform the necessary works for the temporary transfers of certain services, in order to give viability to the works of the architect Marcide Hospital. The works provided for at this stage 1 are necessary and essential for the operation of the hospital, for the correct health care, so the works have the consideration of exceptional and public interest, and are also urgent to improve existing infrastructures as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u443	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. King Varela has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u444	Thank you very much, Counselor, for the information you give us, very important information. We're talking about a very important investment by the Galician Board, one of the most important health investments in all of Galicia, and, of course, for Ferrol the most important investment in the last forty years, since the Marcide Architect Hospital was opened. We're talking about improving our hospitals to, by improving our hospitals, improve health care — as I said in my first intervention — for 200,000 people. But if you'll allow me, we're also talking about an investment that will generate employment and economic growth in Ferrol and throughout its territory, which is also very important, through public investments. That's why, Counselor, I wanted to ask you to continue with that commitment, it's a very important commitment to Ferrol and his county. To ask you to continue with that commitment, given that you are waiting for a year and a half for an agreement with the municipality, that you are waiting for four months for a license — a license is a regulated procedure — by a council that is putting at risk — as I say — a very important investment. So my question to finish, Counsellor, is whether you're still waiting for these authorizations and, of course, if that budget implementation commitment can start in 2019, so that the inhabitants of the district of Ferrol are on an equal footing with other districts of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u445	Thank you very much, Mr. King Varela. For the Government's replica shift, the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u446	Of course, the Galician Union has the conviction that it is necessary and urgent this great investment into the area of Ferrol, because we are talking, as it has well commented, of more than 200,000 inhabitants. Since the Galician Health Service a proposal for an agreement for the works was submitted to the Town Hall and a licence was applied for on 14 August 2018. The Town Hall has referred allegations to the Convention, and a new proposal for the Convention has already been sent. Last December 4th, in the presence of the Council's delay in signing this agreement and granting the licence, a new requirement was made for it to be pronounced on both issues, without unfortunately getting an answer so far. These works are already entrusted to the Galaga Infrastructure Agency by resolution of 23 August 2018, so we hope to be able to proceed to its immediate bidding. The works of phase 1 of the master plan will have an estimated tendering budget of approximately EUR 56.8 million and a run-in period of approximately 36 months; with which it is clear that we need to start as soon as possible to make this phase 1, which will then follow the following phases, the second and the third phases. But the most important of all is this phase 1. Even though we don't count on the municipal license today, tomorrow we'll take to the board of directors the authorization file for this investment to proceed with their bid. We will continue in the process by exhausting up to the last opportunity for the Ferrol Council to do its duty. As you well say, a license is a regulated act and, of course, we think it's gonna have to be that way. As I explained in my first intervention, a series of pre-implementation works have already begun prior to the extension of the hospital — that is, we haven't stopped since that decision was made — the laboratory of pathological anatomy, which is now one of the best laboratory of pathological anatomy in the country, the packaging works of that provisional kitchen at the Naval Hospital and the laundry at the Naval Hospital. This is leaving blanks at the Marcide Architect Hospital just to be able to remodel at the next stage. The Council of Ferrol has not yet spoken about the urban viability of the project through the licensing of the project, nor has it given a good visa to the signing of the convention, as if they have made other municipalities which are not of the same political colour as the Government of the Union. Because sometimes it's said that it's the Government of the Union who's looking for barriers. It is not so, and the Council of Pontevedra — it was told at this very session—if it signed the agreement, if it put money for expropriations, and unfortunately we do not get the same deal from the Council of Ferrol. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an ambitious project and we look forward to all the collaboration on the part of the Council of Ferrol that allows us to continue with the works of improvement of the University Hospital complex of Ferrol for the ferrolans, for the hospital they need. And, of course, the commitment of the Galician Union is that in 2019, yes or yes, the work will begin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u447	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by D.Antón Sánchez García and Da Flora María Miranda Pena, from G.P. de In Marea, about the availability by the Public Health Administration of Galicia of some strategic plan of continence to organize, structure, plan and order pediatric care in the Town Hall of Cuntis
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u448	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Miranda Pena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u449	Mr. Calvo, now that I have the floor, put another call to order there because I reaffirm. It's very expensive and very painful to insinuate that there are no doctors because they get low. They're inferred by their working conditions, because you're mismanaging, and the price is paid by workers and sick people. Call me in order, I can do that. [[Murmurs.]] Counselor, today we've done magic. There were no pediatricians, but we presented this question and a pediatrician appeared in Cuntis. Parliamentary questions almost as magical as PP mayors. I'm glad of the children and the children of Cuntis and Moraña, and the pediatricians of Caldas, who attended 2,700 children of four municipalities. I wonder what will happen to the girls and children of Mondariz, Aldán, Bueu, Malpica, Coruxo, Trives, Covelo and all over the country. Many of the municipalities protest. The situation of pediatric care in our country is alarming. There are no pediatricians or alternative models. They don't have pediatricians because they abuse professionals. They improvised the idea of focusing attention on hospitals, as if they didn't know the sociodemographic reality of this country and the most elementary: primary care has nothing to do with hospitals. They don't have any resources, but the worst is they don't have plans either. They don't have pediatricians because they haven't been trained or left -- "and now you cry," my grandmother would say. Training a pediatrician has been twelve years. The forecasts are still out of reach, they're improvising. You know why they don't have pediatricians? Because they put their birth data on them. They forgot that demand is growing. And they were not accompanied by health education policies and the promotion of autonomy. This is irresistible, Mr. Padre. We have to approach him. And you also know why you don't have pediatricians? Because they don't take care of their professionals, because they offer misery to those who have invested time, savings and energy in training, because they leave the country. Pediatric care also vertebrates rural, Counsellor. Do you think not rural? Well, bet on it. Otherwise it will be a more gray reality than its management, a rural of vulnerable elders with no future or hope. Admit it, Your Ladyship, it's on a dead end street and they don't have plan "b." They promise attention that they can't support. For years they have dedicated themselves to encouraging precariousness, cutting out in training and decent recruitment, and smashing the stitches of the system, pediatrics and primary. Over the last few years there have been many of the municipalities that have been complained to you, Mr. Padre, also those of your rope. He had to make balance tempering kittens even in city halls friends. I don't want to be in your skin. He's running forward, but he'll have to explain how he reorganizes the attention. With the family doctors lowering the pediatric age? With a pediatrician for the county? Explain it, explain it to the parents and mothers of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u450	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u451	My question is, does the Public Health Administration have any strategic contingency plans to organize, structure, plan and enhance pediatric care?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u452	Thank you very much. For the answer, you have the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u453	I feel that the solution to a problem makes your question more important, but it does. Look, as far as pediatric care was concerned in the municipalities of Cuntis and Moraña -- because he talks about Cuntis but not about Moraña, which also surprised me -- he came by lending himself to a pediatrician who, in the open and permanent contest that was settled last October, chose another square. I think that's good for professionals, who can choose another place when they need it. This is new, this has been done for the first time in this year. In the face of this situation, we are left without a pediatrician in this county, and pediatric care has taken place since Caldas de Reis's health center. All children have assigned a pediatrician. Since Pontevedra and Salnés, they have continued to work and take the necessary measures to organize pediatrics in the municipalities of Cuntis and Moraña, so that since yesterday we have a responsible option to pass the pediatrics consultation in these centers. It was never said that this square would disappear. And it was always said that, as soon as it appeared, it would cover itself, as it was done. In Galicia and the rest of Spain there is a shortage of pediatricians that affects us all. We, as you say, abused pediatricians. But curiously he says he's leaving Galicia. But I don't know where they're going, because the rest of Spain doesn't go either because there's no pediatricians. And neither is Europe, because there are no pediatrician squares in primary care. Spain is one of the few countries in Europe that bets on pediatrics in primary care; and Galicia is one of the most inside Spain. Only 12% of primary pediatrics are covered by a family doctor, who, by the way, I think you're a family doctor, I'm a family doctor, and we have training to care for children, we're trained to care for children. It's a percentage higher than the average of Spain, as I say, which is in 75%, or that of communities like Andalusia, which is around 70%. But — I repeat — in Galicia we believe in the current model of pediatric care specialized in health centres for children in Galicia. If we note that the number of children in Galicia 20 years ago was 391,000, the ratio of children for each pediatrician was 1,355. And right now it's 941; that is, we have pediatricians who care for less children than 20 years ago. It's also a reality the difficulty of recruiting new pediatricians, as there's zero unemployment. And so when these specialists take vacations, it's not always possible to replace them. In the Galician Health Service we bet on the maintenance of the current model, and in addition we go to the hand of the Galician Society of Pediatrics, seeking formulas that certainly favor special care for all children. They told the mayors not to amortize this square, and they didn't amortize it. It was covered as soon as possible. By the way, PP mayors, Socialist Party mayors and any one's mayors. For us there is no difference, for us there are the children of Galicia. And so we will continue to act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u454	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Miranda Pena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u455	How would the plaza be amortized if that pediatrician cared for 1,080 boys and girls! How they would leave 1,080 children without a pediatrician! There were 2,700 children and girls who were attending Caldas' pediatrician! It's a barrage, they know the coupons are between 800 and 1,000 per pediatrician. You're so predictable that you already knew what your answer would be. Did they cover Cuntis? Yes, but they have no short- or medium-term pediatricians to cover the current demand. So, I repeat, answer the question. What's your plan? Put pediatricians in the comarca headsets? Cover the pediatrician with family doctors? I ask him again: what will they tell parents and mothers? Did you plan alternatives to care without programming, without choice and without promoting the autonomy of families? Are you aware that the demand is growing and there is no answer to shorten it? You know this isn't only solved with carelessness. Where are you going to get the pediatricians you're promising to your mayors you get to pacify their parents and mothers? How do you explain the differences between rural children and city children? Do you think this helps to reduce the serious problem of demographic decline? Where's the distributive justice, Mr. Almuña? Or don't they share it? Don't you believe her? Who could pay a private. And who doesn't have a car or money, what does he do with the sick kids, Mr. Almuño? He knows that even if the MIR squares are extended, the problem doesn't even shorten in the medium term. Tarde's been crying! This only cuts with decent conditions, they're telling them loud and clear. Listen to the professionals, listen to the professionals! What are you going to do? Are you going to tell your parents and mothers what they're going to have to travel? They improvised with the relocation of pediatricians in hospitals, they were really clumsy. They have no resources for any of the modalities they consider, admit it. They have no resources because they have been despised. And with the professionals he doesn't play; and with the small, less. What will you do with the health of the children and the children of Greece, Mr. Almuña? Exercise your responsibility and organize at once...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u456	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u457	...the present and future of pediatric care in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u458	Thank you very much, Mrs. Miranda. For the Government's reply, you have the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u459	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If we take it seriously, I do! We talk to pediatricians and pediatricians and try to find solutions. We're expanding the retirement age, we want to believe more teaching units to form more pediatricians. That's all we're doing, and we'll keep working. As I say, it's a problem at national level because if you want to treat children in Spain since primary care with pediatricians, which seems to me to be the model, of course, that you have to defend. And we're going to defend him. The county of Cuntis has a population of 4,794, with a declining trend. Moraña has a population of 4,246, similar to that of 2006. Cuntis is located 27 kilometers from Pontevedra, where its reference hospital is located, and 12 kilometres from Caldas de Reis, where its CAP is located. The total number of TIS is 4,679; of these, 707 are pediatrics. And 65-year-olds are 1,375. The knowledge of TIS by professional is found in the ranks recommended by professional societies to provide quality assistance. The general annual activity of professionals is similar to that of other doctors in different health centres. In human resources Cuntis has a total of three family doctors, one pediatrician, three DUEs, two PSXs and one mistress. Of course, also with the Council of Cuntis — not with Moraña, with the Council of Cuntis — we have just signed an agreement for the improvement of the health centre, worth EUR 25,000. I mean, we're still working in health centers, looking not only at staff supplies but also at facilities. Absences from professionals are being met with the same criteria as in any other health centre, and they guarantee adequate assistance and accessibility to the population. Professional staffing is performed with exclusively technical criteria, which take into account, among others, the number of inhabitants, geographic dispersion, population aging and isochronics in relation to the reference hospital or the CAP. As I say, we have already taken steps to help to overcome the low number of pediatricians, although the Ministry — still yesterday — has said that the number of pediatricians and the number of doctors is adequate but that they are poorly distributed. For us, we need more pediatricians. And both the current and previous ministers, Carmen Montón, are specifically asked to speed up the accreditation procedures for six new squares. We don't have them at the moment. Let's hope they keep that word. But we also created the specialty of pediatric nursing in primary care. It's the first community that did it, and we've got squares in the O.P.E. also for this guy, for this specialty, inside the nursing facility. So we're taking steps to ensure that the children and the children of Greece have the best pediatric care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u460	Thank you very much, Mr. Almuña. Question by Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the consideration by the Board of Galicia of the block resignation of numerous primary care chiefs in the area of health of Vigo as a point of the necessary inflection in their health policy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u461	To put the question, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u462	Thank you, President. Good evening — almost evening already, by the hour, Counselor. There is a serious situation in primary care in Galicia, which you know and which we all know continually through the debates that are taking place in this Parliament, the serious news that is being known, but which has been demonstrated in a timely and clear manner as historical fact in the resignation of a very high number of primary health care heads in the area of Vigo. And I'm going to read you some claims that professionals make, or some appreciations. They speak of indiscriminate cuts, of economic and intellectual waste which involve the immigration of doctors to other countries, of the problem of cuts in MIR training, of cuts in research professionals. They report the waiting lists in primary care, the overload in consultations, the blocks of primary agendas, the shortage of staff. The schools of doctors refer to these assessments. They talk about vacations of doctors covered only with day replacements, two days — sometimes. They're talking about personnel cuts, job precariousness, a non-structural waiting list that you don't know about. In general, you know all these claims, because they've been doing them a long time ago. Given this, the manager of Vigo's EOXI, which you have awarded for the great management in the case of hepatitis -- the irony is known -- says they're missing the truth. More than twenty primary care heads resign, and they cease from a job that is actually very vocational, and you say they're missing the truth. They must think that primary care heads don't know the primary care of their services. That must be it. [[Applause]] You have the emergency room in Santiago's hospital on strike, the doctors are on strike, the CAPs are on strike, the ambulances are on strike, the heads of service are dismissed, and we keep saying nothing happens, in that service it's all perfect. Today we know that it is the fault of the system workers, that there are many who are on the ground. This system, Counselor, works thanks to the professionals and despite their leaders. You've heard me say it many times and I think the facts are giving me more and more reason. They must change policies, clearly change policies. Mr. Feijóo has announced a number of measures, and curiously all are retracting measures that you yourselves have taken earlier, so it remains in evidence that it is washing your face at the council and telling them that you have just got wrong. We were listening a moment ago to Mr. King Varela, who is quite fortunate, for he asked a question which would curiously be settled tomorrow at the Board of Governors of the Board of Trustees, Mr. King Varela is a skilled politician and managed to correct what he was going to go to the board of directors. I'll see if I have the same luck, that I don't know; just like this subject goes to the board tomorrow and gives us good news. [[Applause]] I think it should be another news. You should choose, you have two options: either quit because you've just painted your face with everything you've done all these years or quit because you don't even share with your president what to do, and of course, with any of the professionals. He has two options. See if this goes to the board tomorrow too. Do you think it's time to have a turning point in health care or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u463	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. To answer that, you have the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u464	First I wanted to say I'm not going to resign. Second, I'm going to say that we never said that it was the workers' fault, never; otherwise, they're magnificent professionals. And I also mean that Vigo's manager didn't say that. This morning the spokesperson for En Marea had to be retracted, just as at one moment Mr. Torrado had to be retracted as well. But neither did he nor I. [[Applause]] Look, Vigo's primary health care has the largest budget in its history, and the highest in Galicia's EOXI, exceeding 250 million euros. Since 2016 more health centers have been built and reformed than in the last fifteen years, with an investment of more than fifteen million. In Vigo's primary care, 1,563 professionals work, of whom 505 are doctors, and 85% of staff are fixed. The organizational changes that Vigo's health area needs were, as a whole, agreed on in this great pact that was the Strategic Plan 2017-2021, in which all the professionals of primary care and in which they were very decisive. With regard to the evolution of the population that each primary care professional in our autonomous community, from 1,448 people in 2004 to 1,275 in 2017 — the sixth of the National Health System that fewer patients per physician have—. Since 2008, the number of primary care physicians has increased by 164, 7%; nursing staff by 80, 3.4%. The number of consultations conducted in primary care during 2017 was 26.176,000. Primary care is the best rated healthcare service by the citizen in all health parameters. As for primary care, the score is 7.54. An 88.5% of users of these services in Galicia consider that the attention paid was either good or very good, 88.5%. Zero unemployment in family or community medicine and in pediatrics, which affects all autonomous communities, makes it impossible to cover the absences of the holders, to whom we have to thank the great effort they are making to ensure that this exceptional quality we have provided in Galicia. We continue to work and adopt measures, such as the 1,544 professionals more than in 2008, and better working conditions, such as the career, which begins to develop now in January; annual calls from OPE — between 2012 and 2016 we offer 1,606 squares, and in the 2017-2020 period we have offered the possibility of stabilising 5,000 people—. We prioritized categories such as family doctors, primary care pediatricians and family and community nursing specialists. We're behind retirement age. 88% of the structure template of the Galego Health Service is stable. And we've increased the training of specialists.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u465	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u466	No MIR-formation clippings occurred. We've been increasing the family MIR in the last two years and we're going to continue to increase. In addition, we ask the Ministry, as I say, on repeated occasions, to extend the accreditations in all the deficit specialities: family doctors, pediatricians and others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u467	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u468	And, of course, we're going to continue working on this line. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u469	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez Almuinho. For the reply, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u470	Thank you, President. I don't think it is necessary to reiterate the debate. Of course, Mr. Villares has already explained it, I think quite clearly. He corrected that you were not — I think that was what Mr. Villares said — and then he retracted himself by saying that he was the manager of Vigo's EOXI. If not, it's easier: instead of asking for portraits from others, let's go to El Correo Gallego — 12-12-2018 — ask El Correo Gallego to withdraw and see how journalists can take note. [[Applause]] But it's more, not only did he accuse them of missing the truth but they say they have a problem of perception, that the heads of the health area who resign have a problem of perception. There must be 70 patients coming through, but it's a problem of perception, it's only 25. They have a problem of perception, it must be that when they talk about obsolete material they have a problem of perception. They're actually all new things, latest technologies, and they have a problem with perception. When they talk about how you can't manage misery, they have a problem of perception, they sense misery where you perceive that this is fantastic, that this health is ultragalactic. See if it's gonna be the problem of perception that you have, because everybody's telling them otherwise. We all have a problem of perception less than you do, because you say we're missing the truth we and the heads of service. Look, about the MIR, as you explained a moment ago, they said they were working to believe the pediatrics. Well, they work, because they haven't asked for them in nine years. They work well, trust them, that the Ministry will grant them. By the way — a curiosity — I like it when you say: We're increasing the MIR family doctor's squares, but the Ministry hasn't even increased those of pediatrics. No, no, if they want to blame the Ministry for some things -- which already told them they were going to increase -- they also place the responsibility of increasing the MIR family doctor's premises. By the way, the best measure was taken by the Ministry. [[Applause]] It's good that a socialist government has arrived to at least give them a hand, which you have not been able to. But, look, I'll give you one last date. You tell me now that since 2016 they've done a lot of things -- I suppose to defend their management -- from previous, other advisories, they don't want to do it. Do you know what the problem is? That all the data I read to you before, and medical school statements were from 2012. They've been making these same claims for six years, and you're still saying now that a lot of things have been done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u471	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u472	And yet they keep saying the same thing. Are you going to resign at some point, Counselor, or do you think you're going to continue the same, leave things as they are, and that the problem is the perception of others?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u473	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, Mr. Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u474	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, the truth is there are complaints that are even of the time of the Bipartite. There was a report in the Bipartite that said the CAP solution was that there was less CAP. That's the Bipartite solution. We're not going that way. [[Murmurs.]] Look, as I said, it's not all done. I mean, we have a very good health service, good primary care, but we all agree that we need to evolve this model. And we're proposing a new model, a new model that is consensual with everyone. Because in recent years we have launched electronic revenue, electronic clinical history -- which, by the way, is not generalized throughout Spain, and we have it working -- the rapid pathways, Connecta 72, Telea, many projects that are having a very positive effect. But, in spite of everything, as I say, we are taking action in all areas: trying to have more professionals, trying to make more investments, better hospitals, better health centers, with more endowment, too, and to be resolvative. Because there is a basic principle with which we, of course, will follow to the end — whether it resigns or ceases — that is to bring the services closer to the citizens. That's a maximum. We said, when we approved the Health Act, that we wanted to try out which primary care would solve as much as possible, that comarcas would resolve as much as possible and that, of course, we must avoid displacement by maintaining the quality of the health service. That's what we are. And now we believe that this model, which has been a successful model for many years, has signs of exhaustion. Of course we want to evolve it, and for that we try, among all, to improve that system. We had a meeting yesterday, I think it's very important, transcendental. We have the unique opportunity to have magnificent professionals in many professional categories of primary care. Six groups were formed. Those six groups are going to develop a series of improvements for everyone. And of course we're going to take him to the end. If the opposition doesn't like it, he doesn't like us trying to improve our consensus with professionals. Of course, if anyone can talk about Vigo's chiefs of service, it has to be me, because I know a lot of these heads of service. I've worked with many of them, they're great professionals. The only thing I don't agree with them -- and so I passed it on to them -- is that, having meetings, like I had two days before, we couldn't keep counting on them. Because I think they would, of course, be a sure guarantee of this change. But they're going to continue to collaborate, I know, because they're professionals who care about the system. Of course, our doors are open. We're going to try to involve all professionals, all professional categories, the associations of patients — very important and every day with more weight — and also the unions. I think we all have to be. I'd really like to count on the opposition groups as well. I believe that this is a role we have, and this Parliament should serve to have the best possible model for all citizens of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-19-DSPG098.u475	Thank you very much, Counselor. Finished the agenda points, we finished the session.
