ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u1	Good morning. We resumed the session. Item 7 of the agenda, questions for oral answer by the president of the board. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Greek Government regarding the modification of its policy in relation to the Greek language
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u2	We started with the question of Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u3	Thank you very much, President. "I speak because yes, because I like it,/ because I love it and I want it and I want it;/ because it gets me out of the inside...". Mr. Feijóo, if we're still Welsh, it's by work and grace of the language. Having one's own language is a wealth, but you've preferred to weaken Greek. He came to the throne to ride on that great lie of imposition and takes throughout his mandate by slamming our tongue. And the consequences are in sight: the Greek is the only language in the state, the only one that loses speakers. English is the only language in the forbidden state to teach Mathematics or Science. English is the only language in the state that doesn't have its own newspaper, it's the only one that's coming down the edition of the book. English is the only language discriminated against in school. As far as Junta recognizes that in the case of children, it is reduced in the case of children, it is excluded from 90 percent of schools in the cities. This data will, of course, leave it to you in a very bad place. But they also dismantle that strategy of blaming families when you or they are responsible for dynamizing consensus and favoring Spanish monolingualism. Because look, his politics is neither bilingual nor cordial, nor harmonic. And this doesn't just tell the BNG, tell him we want Galego, I told him the teaching unions, I told him about the pedagogical renewal movements, the Council of Culture, tell him to the Royal Galaga Academy, the Royal Galician Academy that very few months ago made a report in which he says two things that are very important. The first is that since 2010, with its decree, the Greek has retreated to school until indexes of the 1990s. And it also denounces that there is a large part of the citizenship that feels a strong pressure to abandon Greek and settle in Spanish. Mr. Feijóo, with his scrache you are failing to comply with the Statute itself, which clearly says that we must walk towards the normalization of the Greek and his equality with the Spanish. And, in this context, since the BNG we have called for a recombination of consensus in relation to the Greek. The 2004 General Linguistic Standardization Plan is available to us. Is he going to you? Are you willing to repeal the decree against the Greek? Are you willing to support the book's edition, to regain support, to comply with the law that we unanimously approve? Are you willing to help the media for normalization really be for that? Are you willing to ensure that children and girls don't lose the Greek at school? Mr. Feijóo, to deny our language is to deny the country. I ask you not to renounce Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, after listening to your opinion, minority, about the situation in Galicia, I don't think it would be reasonable for me to give you my opinion, because I think we have to pick up the opinions of the people who, since independence, are studying the sociolinguistic situation in Galicia. Therefore, Your Honor, I will not give you my opinion. The minority views you represent have arrived for your opinion. But if I give you the written and published opinions of the Royal Academy of Galician Language. Language and society. The socio-linguistic evolution 1992-2013, which is the latest comprehensive report of the Royal Academy. Conclusion — cito —: "The Greek has a vantage point of democracy compared to other languages of Spain and a strong position in Galicia itself." He just totally disassembled his speech. I mean, the Royal Galaga Academy comes to remember something that we have already spoken and concrete in three conclusions: firstly, that the health and presence of Greek in society is good compared to the rest of the languages of Spain; secondly, that the level of knowledge of Welsh is the highest in Galicia's history; and thirdly, that its use, especially among the younger — and, in particular, among the newer in urban areas — is not accompanied by its level of knowledge. There's the problem, Your Honor, there's the problem. The Royal Academy indicates that the language has an unquestionable vitality and that 73% of the population commonly uses Greek, and insists: "it also highlights the high degree of knowledge of the Greek." Tell him the report. At the height of 2013 the Galicians and the Galicians from 5 years old claim to have a level of oral understanding practically total, and 9 out of 10 are considered capable of speaking it. Next: 8 out of 10 people are able to read and 6 out of 10 write in English. It's good news, but what's good news isn't what I'm telling the Royal Academy. Your Honor, if you want to go on, let's go on. Greek can be used by 89% of the population of Galicia, compared to 85% of Catalan and 55% of Basque. That is, 9 out of every 10 Greeks can be expressed in their own language, the highest rate of all autonomous communities with their own language. Your Honor, that's the data, and it's not the opinion. [[Applause]] As you will understand, always representing minorities, not even accepting reports from the Royal Academy. I, Your Honor, at the moment we represent the majority, trust me with the independent reports that make the Royal Academy of our language. Your Honor, what you can't hide is that Galicia is a bilingual society, and that's why I take your proposal to defend, adhere to and make us the 2004 Language Standardization Plan, among other things, because in 2004 we were in the Government. From what you have separated, you have been from the agreements — as is customary —. [[Murmurs.]] And what I cannot in any case give up is a decree that has all the legal assessments of the Greek courts, the High Court and, of course, the lordship...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u7	...that guarantees knowledge of the Greek. And, in fact, that's why -- the Royal Academy indicates it -- we're in the highest position of knowledge of the Greek in our history. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u8	Thank you, President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, as you say, your reference is what the Royal Galaga Academy says, because, indeed, we have this report here. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo shows a document.]] By the way, it is 1992-2016. I don't think he's had a good time. I don't know, I suppose you don't have time to read this kind of report in detail. But look, precisely speaking about this issue, the president of the Royal Galaga Academy, in a recent interview they did to him in a media of communication in this country, said literally: "The board argues that the German has an even greater percentage of speakers than the Basque and Catalan, but why? Because we have set off from a very favourable historical position, but the retreat in these years has been disturbing. With the policies followed so far, he has not been able, in urban areas, to incorporate the population into the Greek." And he says something that I think is also relevant -- I don't know if he cares about you, I do -- there are a lot of kids in his house who speak in English that when they get to school they lose their language. That's a responsibility of the Public Service. That's what the president of the Royal Galaga Academy says, even though there are advisers who laugh at them, because they actually mock this country. [[Applause]] I never thought I had to say it, but it's obvious that in linguistics you are a retrograde to even what the Fraga governments have meant. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And look, where you won't be able to change things is if you really don't take on the problem you're creating. I know your Government is talking about a plan now to believe that it is to dynamize — because now they don't want to talk about normalization, even though it collects the Statute — for youth. But do you really think there can be some future plan for our language and some plan to incorporate youth when, for example, you still have on TVG the same cartoons that I saw when I was a child — Doraemon, Son Goku, Shin Chan... — cartoons from the 20th century for children of the 21st century? You won't be able to advance in the matter of normalization of our language if you don't really waive that shameful decree that told you by the Galician Court of Justice itself that it was illegal and that it violates what the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization says. Please don't be cynical, Mr. Feijóo, don't be cynical! The plan says, for example, that it is essential that mathematics and science be given in English, and you made a decree to ban it. It's a real shame, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u10	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u11	Let's do it, because you say you agree with that general plan, a call...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u12	Finish, please. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u13	...to regain that consensus in favour of us running what the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization literally says. BNG is willing to sit on that table to recompose consensus. But give me, Mr. Feijóo, that you are unwilling to do absolutely nothing to change that embarrassing situation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u15	He doesn't follow the plan or pass the law, nor does he apply the Law of Book and Reading. He's dynamizing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u16	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u17	...to the programs on Tele galega cultural broadcast, Mr. Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u18	Thank you, your time is up. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, you're not listening anymore. Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Pontón, your time is up, you're not heard anymore. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What's the matter? What's the matter? No, I'm asking Mr. Sánchez what the problem is. Please. 1,48, what do you mean by this? [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Let's see if we behave, because it's okay. [[Murmurs.]] The President's question is closed. [[Murmurs.]] Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pontón, I am surprised that a spokesperson like you makes such a macho comment about the advisors who are part of the Government. There you are, Your Honor, there you are, and your behaviors are so macho. Yes, Your Honor, yes. [[Applause]] Yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, Your Honor, yes, yes. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] But as the important thing... Mrs. Pontón, Mrs. Pontón, I repeat...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u20	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u21	You may amend the Journal of Sessions, but you have just made a masquerading comment, clearly, in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u22	Quiet, please. The President is speaking. Silence, please, silence. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Mrs. Pontón, that's it, time's up. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. I have more important things to talk about than your comments. Mrs. Pontón, you quote interviews from the president, I quote reports. It seems more appropriate to bring reports to the House than to bring interviews. And in those reports — reiterate — I read: increased oral and written knowledge index of Welsh. In 1998, I could speak German 96.8% of the population. In 2013, or 97.4%. In 2008, I didn't know anything in English about 3% of the population and dropped to 2.5%. In 2008, I was able to write 81% in English. In 2013, or 83.5%. And in 2008, they couldn't write anything in English at 18% and they went down to 16.5%. These are the data from the Royal Academy, Your Honor, not the interviews. But if you want to dig into the data, it always surprises us how nationalists hide another report from the Royal Academy. Yes. It turns out in that report of the Royal Academy, the percentage of boys aged 5 to 14 who always spoke in English dropped abruptly when you were in government. Yes, Your Honor, let me remind you. [[Murmurs.]] In 2003, one and a half years before collecting the Government of Galician Union by the BNG, in 2003, they spoke German 27.1% of the boys, and in 2008, they left at 15.3%; that is, they dropped 12 points while you were ruling. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, this is the data. From 2003 to 2008. The historic moment, according to the Royal Academy, where the use of the German by youth was lowered when you ruled. For something it will be, Mrs. Pontón, for something it will be. Obviously, boys are free, most of them don't vote, they have their own freedom, and they're fed up with the language policy of BNG. That's what happened, Mrs. Pontón, that's what happened. [[Applause]] And what happened, Your Honor, is that it's a cordial Greek. It is the first time that the Portuguese Republic condemns this government for making a policy of proximity, for making a policy of respect, of promoting the language of the Greek within the Lusophone world, and it is the first time — I insist — in the history that the President of the Portuguese Republic condemns this government. Your Honor, let's keep working, that's my goal, I don't hide it from you. What am I concerned about the low use of young people in urban areas of Greek? No doubt. Then we agreed, fully. But that, of course, in Galicia, the Greeks speak more of their own language than the Catalans and the Basques speak their own language is unquestionable. That's why, Mrs. Pontón, the biggest damage that can be done to language is appropriate, it's to consider it to be an intellectual property of nationalists. Nationalists are not the General Society of Authors, owner of the Greek. [[Murmurs.]] The Greek existed before the nationalists...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u24	Finish, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u25	...and will continue to exist despite the debacle of the nationalist vote. Mrs. Pontón, Galicia wants to be a Galician, she wants to be a Spanish, she wants to be bilingual, she wants to be tolerant, and we're still being friendly, Mrs. Pontón. You have my word that while I'm president, I will continue to work for the Greek. You have no doubt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] What do you want the word for, Mrs. Pontón? [[Murmurs.]] Silence, please, silence. Quiet. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u27	I want to know if you saw a few words in my speech that could have hurt some person's dignity, because if you just accused me of doing a masculine intervention. I want you to clarify, in any case, the president to refer to, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u28	Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u29	Because I think so far...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u30	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mrs. Prado and Mr. Bará...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u31	I'm here talking perfectly quietly, I don't know why they're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u32	Mrs. Pontón spoke to me and I'll answer her, I answer her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u33	I want to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u34	But I answer you, don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u35	No, no, but I want you to clarify me, anyway, because here are accusations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u36	But that's what the president is for, to interpret what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u37	...of a calibre that frizzes with a very serious theme...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u38	He's... No, no, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u39	...and, of course,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u40	You understand everything. I answer you, Mrs. Pontón, I answer you. I believe that the interpretation I make — and, in this case, it is worth —... Of course, for that I am the president, I have these privileges. [[Murmurs.]] Of course! I'll do it. [[Laughter]] I think the interpretation comes from that you make both advisors at a given time laugh at an expression you used, but you only mention the advisors when other people laughed in the Chamber. Other people did not laugh. [[Murmurs.]] I think the comment... you don't come in, that, Mr. Sánchez, the question isn't with you. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It's an issue, it's an issue. Zanjada. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, of course. No, no, of course. Quiet, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Interpretation of the Presidency, which is the right thing to do in order in the House. And now it is up to you to ask the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leicega. Whenever you want. Question by Dr. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia regarding its policies regarding the correction of the internal territorial imbalances of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u41	Mr. Sánchez, you have a call to order. I remember him because, as he was yesterday, he might have forgotten. You run the risk of a second and you know what happens next. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Feijóo, I don't know if you know this FIFA announcement with the field bowing. Well, I think something like this has been happening in Galicia for some time now. It's gradually tilting activity, population, towards the Atlantic axis. Almost all the loss of population in Galicia in the last ten years has occurred in Lugo and Ourense, in addition to the Costa da Morte, Ortegal and the Terra de Montes. There were 180 municipalities, 180 municipalities, which, since your rule, have lost more than 10% of the population, and of these, 122 are in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense. There are entire districts of Galicia where more than ten deaths occur for each birth in the last year in which there are references. There are many areas where we have the possibility of a vacuum in the next few days. We also have that in these provinces, in Lugo and Ourense, there are no relevant projects in the last decade of industrial deployment, just -- I don't remember any relevant ones. There are also exports in these provinces, while Galician exports are good, they are sickening. It is leading to the crisis of many of the farmers who formed the productive tissue in these areas. And you removed the previous government's territorial balance plan and replaced it with a Plan Impress Lugo or Impress Ourense, of which we never know the balance. We don't know what balance he had. It ended early in 2015, but what happened to it? You have a chance now to explain it to us. If we know that since that year, since 2015, do you know how many assets have been granted by Igape to companies in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense? An avalanche, an avalanche in three years for those provinces. Something's happening and we need to explain it not only, but also correct it. And from public services, for example, health care, the news that comes to us from your Government is that it's with the elimination of comarcal hospital areas, it's introducing more division and affecting more directly peripheral areas of Galicia. The other day in an interview a recognized health professional claimed — and with him, we — that hemodynamics, cardiology services, are operating 24 hours a week also in Lugo and Ourense, and this is a historic claim that should be completed as soon as possible. When we have problems in these areas and in other social services, we are helping to fuel these internal imbalances. And what about the infrastructure? You promised in 2009 the AVE Lugo-Ourense saying: if you don't encourage it, we pay for it. And yesterday he got on a train with the Minister of Development to tell him in Lugo that there's nothing about AVE, that there's not going to be the AVE. There won't be AVE. That's what they told us yesterday. Yeah, yeah, that's exactly what they told us yesterday. [[The President of the Committee of the Regions speaks words which are not perceived.]] From the North Coast VAC ten years and no news; from the A-74 we know nothing; from the A-56, neither do we; from the A-76, nor do we know anything. And there are projects that have been standing for years to bid. And this is what would better connect people in these provinces and give them a chance to develop. Then we'll talk about other things. But, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, since you are ruling, that field, which was already levelled -- I will not do it responsible for you -- even if it has revealed a little more, and I think we have an obligation from the public domain to re-enter the agenda the problems of the internal territorial imbalances, to be able to balance that little by little, and to give a chance to people living outside the Atlantic axis, which is the most dynamic area of our country. And what I ask you to do is make an effort to make this possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u43	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that the decisions which the Government has taken and which it has taken and which it continues to adopt cannot be clearer, being aware, indeed, that territorial balance is an undeniable issue for any democratic government and, secondly, that governments — you know it well — write in the annual budgets from the point of view of their economic policy, from the point of view of their decisions and priorities in investments. If you take — and I suppose you would — all the budgets of the Galician Union since I am President, you will see how, year after year, the per capita investment in Galicia is superior in Lugo and Ourense to the rest of the provinces. Per capita investment in Atlantic provinces, for example, in 2008 is €2.730 per capita; in Lugo and Ourense, 3,700, 35% more. For example, in Lugo we invested 1,200 euros more per person than in the province of Coruña and in Ourense we invested 800 euros per person than in the province of Pontevedra. If you want to look at this budget again, the last one — if you don't take any other — will see that the increase in Lugo investment is 6.7% and in Ourense it is 8.7%; that is, higher increases in these provinces. In other words, although these provinces account for 23% of the population of Greece — not 24% — investment is more than 30%. This is constant and continuous, Your Honor. When we follow the other sectoral policies, we see that, for example, in spatial planning, in the decision-making of communications, in well-being, in health, in the productive fabric, in the creation of wealth, continues. We approve a new Land Law, but it will be the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants that we offer to make a basic plan by the Galician Union. We encourage all the procedures in that law for logging and agribusiness. And we're speeding up all the rehabilitation requirements. In improving infrastructure, we have been open in Galicia 212 kilometers, since we arrived in the Government, high-capacity routes. Well, 97 of them are in Lugo and Ourense province. We now have 33 kilometers that are running and committed to this legislation and 16 of them are back in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense. If you take any other indicator, you can see that the railway actually surprises me what you just said. Look, Mr. Leicega, if you tell me that one of the problems of territorial balance is the schedule of the hemodynamics room in Lugo, I suppose you don't say it seriously, simply because you are sent by the socialist authorities of Lugo — which, for now, we don't know who I am —. But finally... when you were in the government, there was no hemodynamics room, four years without hemodynamics room. And now it turns out that the problem is that the hemodynamics room starts at 8:00 in the morning at 10:00 in the evening. When you were in the government, there was no nuclear medicine, there was no radiotherapy. Now there's nuclear medicine, radiotherapy and hemodynamics room, and the problem is the hemodynamics room. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, when you were in the Government, on the high-capacity track of the north they didn't make a mile in the province of Lugo, not a mile. We opened a stretch. As my advisor, I presented five variants in Viveiro, five variants in Viveiro being advisor, and now, who am president, we are going to present to Viveiro the sixth proposal. I hope you support her. It is regrettable, Your Honor, that, even above, he gives me lessons on the high-capacity roads of the north of the province of Lugo. Zero miles in four years of economic kindness. And, Mr. Leicega, that you're talking about the AVE of Lugo is amazing. Of course I said I was willing to forward the money from the AVE of Lugo. The problem I found is that we owed 2,000 million euros. Of course, Mr. Leicega, and the AVE of Lugo is between 1,300 and 1,600 million euros in total investment. [[Murmurs.]] Imagine: we could do the AVE of Lugo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u46	...and they still had money left, Mr. Leicega. But we just compromised Lugo's AVE. Is it not just an hour and thirty minutes in the year 2021 that seems to you little for connecting to Ourense? Is it perhaps an hour and five minutes, once you finish the variants with Ourense, and three hours and twenty minutes between Lugo and Ourense, you think that's not a high-speed train?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u48	Sorry, between Lugo and Madrid, three hours and twenty minutes, isn't it a high-speed train? Mr. Leicega, what is not high speed is the Socialist Party in Lugo. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u50	I'm glad the president of the board is pleased with the way things are going about the internal territorial imbalances. I've already told you no, that you have to go faster, among other things you have to make a real high speed. If you're telling me that in 2021 Lugo citizens can go Lugo-Ourense on a high-speed train, if you're telling me that, tell me in this House, that it's recorded, as the president recalled yesterday. [[Applause]] Tell us if you're going to be able to do it by the Ministry of Development, because you are probably not well acquainted with the Pears, but, with the low level in that area where the AVE line is going to go, thinking that it might be ready in the year 2021 is a coat of hair for all citizens of Lugo, a ton of hair for the citizens of Lugo, Mr. President, an insult to intelligence. [[Applause]] You can't tell us that. You can't tell us that or try to divert your attention to other things. It's an absolute coat of hair that the Minister of Development to Lugo came to do yesterday. It's good to renew the line, but renew the line is to tell the citizens of Lugo that they won't have AVE, that they won't have AVE on a reasonable horizon as long as you continue to rule. And that's what you've come to make sure. [[Murmurs.]] Ten years after his promise, once there is already economic recovery, that they are already ruling in Spain from now on, I don't know how long, perhaps he didn't have the funds -- I suppose he will have them today -- because put them now, because there's no AVE, put them now, and tell us here that he's finally going to fulfill his promise, ten years later. [[Applause]] And so on. Look, in the VAC of the North Coast what you opened was bided in the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño and another plot that you also inaugurated was bided during the period of President of Emilio Pérez Touriño, of the VAC of the North Coast. Of course, the variant of Cedeira... - Sorry, the variant... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Who paid it? Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u51	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u52	But look, look, there's hanging patterns...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u53	Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u54	...to bid in A-56 and A-76 that would allow sensitive renewal of internal communications between Lugo and Ourense, and between Ponoferrada and Ourense, which have been lost in the foster drawers for six years. I guess I'd have time on that train trip with the minister to tell you these things, and see if we're finally able to unlock these provinces. And what I'm asking is that we reintroduce into Galicia's public agenda the internal territorial imbalances and that we do everything possible to, from the public sphere, services, infrastructure, economic incentives, give these provinces an exit, feeding on those projects that are already in progress. Some things seem good to me. In the Rocks promises go far ahead of reality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u56	...they're hiding reality. Let's make those promises come true and do something like it in Ourense, where you're ruling everywhere, and it turns out that it's the province that has the most economic and demographic difficulties of all. That's what you have to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u58	It seems good to me that there was a commitment to it, telling us that the internal territorial imbalances were finally to be introduced in the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u59	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u60	...to be wrong. It's not the variant of Cedera, Your Honor, it's the variant of Ortigueira. But that's not in Lugo province, as you know. Of course, it's not in Lugo province. [[Laughter]] But it's okay, Mr. Leicega. You're rare to make mistakes, but in this case it's gruesome. Look, I repeat: one thing is bidding and another thing is paying, as you should know. It was paid by this government in full economic recession. [[Applause]] Your Honor, you should know, yes, Your Honor, every time you speak of territorial rebalancing, that the highway between Lugo and Ourense, for eight years of the Government Zapatero, after the Galician Plan "of Mie...", which was already compromised, for eight years, you between Lugo and Ourense made a plot, between The Barrela and Chantada. [[Murmurs.]] Do you know what they did after? Uncheck it, i.e. cancel the contract. You know why? Because you were implementing the public debt and called Mrs. Merkel by telephone, they changed the Constitution, they began to meet the public deficit, and the first question that was made was to cancel the only stretch of the highway, between Guntín and Ourense, auctioned by the Socialist Government, The Barrela-Chantada. [[Murmurs.]] Take note, Mr. Leicega. That's what I found when I got to the government. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the AVE de Lugo, I gladly explain, I gladly explain, Mr. Leicega. Lugo-Ourense, an hour and thirty minutes in the year 2021. Lugo-Madrid, three hours and forty-seven minutes in 2021. Lugo-Madrid, after the two variants of Canaval to the Pearls and Rubian, three hours and twenty minutes. That is the commitment of the Government of the People's Party in Madrid, and I am a depositary of that commitment. And if it's not done, you have no doubt that I'll be the first to report it. I will not be silent, as the Socialist Party and the BNG did when Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero was ruling in Madrid. Don't count on me for that. But, of course, lessons of territorial rebalancing of Lugo and Ourense, Mr. Leicega, academic lessons, all; political lessons, none. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, for the technology of Rozas, 150 million euros. Degree of aerospace engineering in Ourense. A new FP titration in Lugo. Marine gas is shining, 65 million euros. Energy guidelines from Galicia in Lugo increase the wind power by 23%; it will assume nothing more and nothing less than 5,000 jobs created over the next three years. Let's keep going. Back to the activity of Cementos Cosmos, in Oural, 3 million euros, 375 jobs. [[Sirria]] Let's move on. The only district of Spain currently financed from the geothermal energy point of view, Ourense 2018, 22 million euros. Connection of the San Cibrao polygon to A-52, adjudicated, 22 million euros. Lugo-Sarria highway, at this moment in a constructive project; didn't they even have time to do the construction project in four years, Mr. Leicega, or do the construction project between Lugo and Sarria?; if I no longer ask you to bid, but at least you leave the projects made. Industrial soil bonus between Lugo and Ourense of 55%. Joint Unit of the Meat Technology Center in Ourense, 20 million euros. Registered unemployment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u62	...the province where unemployment has declined most since 2009, Lugo, 39.3%; in Ourense, 36.4%. Mr. Leicega, we are working on the territorial rebalancing — no doubt about it — we are even supplicating the rule of the Deputy of Lugo — don't you have any doubt about it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u64	If the territorial rebalancing model is the model of the government of the Lugo Deputy, Mr. Leicega, you will understand that at least it produces a smile. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u65	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the intentions of the Galician Union with regard to the partisan use of the public media to carry out electoral campaign
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u66	Whenever you like, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u67	Good morning, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, the future of the city of Coruña is at this point in order of its coastal facade, its maritime facade. This is something that is evident throughout the city of Coruña, for all the corrupt and corrupt, who sees in the present situation of the port a historic opportunity to rethink their city, to open it to the sea, to put it to the service of the common good, to put it to the service of the whole of citizenship. That's why the entire body of Coruña citizenship is mobilized, is on the street defending public and staffing use of the whole harbour land, and that's why there's a clear social and institutional debate around this subject. And this is no minor concern, and it is also grounded, because, in 2004, the urban ballast conventions, woven at that time between Town Hall, Union and Development, sought nothing but, in the context of the real estate bubble, a speculation of urban character that created a real concrete wall that closed the city to the sea, which deprived the citizens of the Coruña of enjoying a land that should never cease to belong to the public and which, therefore, now in this historical context is claimed for the public. Today this situation is unsustainable. The situation of the 2004 conventions is unsustainable from the point of view of spatial planning, from the urban point of view and, above all, from the point of view of transparency. Today there is a conscious citizenship that has learned from the past decade all the mistakes made in the context of real estate bubbles and speculation, all the exclusion that has produced from the social point of view, from the economic point of view, and today they want to be particicipal. Coruña's citizenship wants to be the protagonist of the future of its city. It doesn't want speculation or new real estate practices that deny the city its future. For this reason, the Council of Coruña, last October, offered dialogue to all the administrations that had something to say about the future of the city, about the future of its port, and therefore called for a thorough review of the urban ballast conventions of the year 2004 in non-speculative key and in defense of the common good. What was the citizenship of the Crown, represented legitimately by the Municipal Corporation? Nothing but an indecent protocol signed in April of this year, 2018. And we said indecently because it was left behind the citizenship of the Coruña, it was turned behind the Municipal Corporation, it was made behind those who held the municipal representation and who legitimately had the right to opinions to decide the future of the city, in addition to, of course, having competences in urban matters. Why was that exclusion made? Why did the Galician Junta lead that indecent exclusion, re-editing that urban ballatz? Of course, with this, the People's Party once again showed its most active face of real estate speculation, exclusion, sectarianism, especially from living behind citizenship. And everything for what? To punish, intentionally, a government that wanted only and exclusively more transparency, more participation, more democracy and put this in the service of the common good. Look, you intended, with your practice, with that protocol -- it ended, the punishment of a government that was legitimate in a city like that of the Crown, and you did what you did as a result was punishing the whole of citizenship, refusing to choose its future. The protocol of shame highlights what the interests of the People's Party are and which are contrary to citizenship, the protocol of speculation confronts you with the common good, and the protocol of the People's Party's interests is to rule only for a few, for the rich, impoverishing the Coruña. You still lack all knowledge, however, when you don't read the small letter and you don't know to the public the small letter of that protocol, which is that of, among all those who sign, sending the opposition of the council to a councillor crowned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u68	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u69	I don't hide it from you that I like the town of Coruña very much, but I don't hide it from you that I'm not going to introduce myself to the mayor of Coruña. As you can see, you have some interest in presenting yourself to the Mayor of the Coruña, I don't feel bad about it, but since you want to talk about the situation of the city of Coruña and the Mayor of the Coruña, because I have to answer, as it is natural, because I am a respectful person, and of course I will answer to what the mayor of Coruña says through you in this parliamentary session. No, no, the future of the Coruña didn't start the other day when we signed the protocol, the future of the Coruña was when we got the outer port of the Coruña. That's when he started, that was a permanent claim. We took several oil catastrophes to the gates of the town of Coruña and there were some, others never were. And there we got over 1.2 billion euros, the largest port of the European Atlantic facade. You were dedicated to other things then. Well, Your Honor, I was there, and we got that port, we got European funds and we got an agreement with the city of Coruña; by the way, where there was a mayor who had the absolute majority in the Coruña, and we signed with the city of Coruña the way to finance the outer port of Coruña. Then the future of the Crown began. Let's move on. They now accuse us of reaching an agreement with Ports of the State and the Ministry of Development, the same agreement that the mayor of the Coruña had asked me to arrive, because he was unable to understand anyone, and he also says that it is the protocol of shame, the agreement made back to the city of Coruña, and it turns out that the agreement is not signed, because the first thing we did was to send it to the mayor of the Coruña to see if he agrees or wants to argue some specific question. [[Murmurs.]] So, what deal are you talking to me about? According to the agreement to send it back to the mayor of the Crown to see if there's anything that benefits the city of the Crown? Is that exactly your problem, Mr. Villares? [[Laughter]] You should see that protocol, which may have been hidden from him by the Mayor of the Crown. I'll pass it right away. He's got four keys. First, the public property of the interior docks of the Coruña, Battery and Calvo Sotelo, in co-ownership, 51% title of Join Galicia, a public institution by nature. Secondly, they were offered to the Council of the Coruña and the Deputy of the Coruña if they wanted to come in — yes, if they wanted — is that they told me they wanted and now it seems that they don't want to, therefore, nothing can hide the possibility that they will change their mind again. They'd better! What do you think we're not going to do anything in the Coruña while the mayor of the Coruña doesn't make any decisions with himself and his group? It doesn't seem reasonable. So we're sending that protocol to the mayor of the Crown to see if you agree. Thirdly, a smaller issue, we got 140 million euros, full funding, 100%, the external port of the Coruña financed by the Central Government. First time a railway is funded by the Central Government. [[Applause]] Mr. Villares, what am I accused of? He accuses me of fulfilling a motion adopted at the plenary session of the Council of the Coruña in January 2017, which says, and I read: "Defend to Ports of State and Ministry of Development the rights of the Coruña and the Coruña, avoid auctioning the harbour lands and the docks of Battery and Calvo Sotelo." Yes, indeed, you avoid auctions, you don't sell them, you're going to be public. Is it true that you would be extremely pleased if that mayor you represent had achieved this protocol? Is that true?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u71	But of balls in the Town Hall of Coruña, if you want us to keep talking. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u73	It is regrettable that the President of the Galician Union is here to say that in order to defend the city of Coruña we must aspire to be mayor. Of course, those we're here, at least from this bench, we're concerned about the Crown and the general interest of the whole of Galicia, regardless of whether we're in a government or another, for one reason, because we're not sectarians, and we really want to rule for the common good and for the whole of citizenship, the difference that you make. [[Protests.]] [[Applause]] So take note and the actions you do do do do not do them to favor the future conciliator of the opposition of the People's Party in the Town Hall of the Crown, which I take advantage of to greet at this moment. Look, the construction of the external port of Coruña, of course, was one of the measures you could put in order to solve the problems of maritime traffic and the problems of accidents. I was asking you to do us at that time, we were integrated into research teams to modify the civil liability regime of damage caused by hydrocarbons, although that will not interest you so much, because it means, too, loss of business for your friends, those who have oil tankers domiciled in Gibraltar, despite being high positions of the European Commission. Look, said this, the external port has other financing systems that are not at the expense of speculating in the city of Coruña, because the state port law itself has this purpose, and in view of that, the president of the Harbour Authority had nothing more and nothing less than the undoing to say that his function — even if it is true, eh! — is not to build a city. Actually, since it's not about building a city, it's just about getting resources, even if it's at the expense of speculating against the city's interests, because you can do it. Perfect! But for something there is a democratic corporation of the entire city of Coruña, to defend the interests of the social majority, to defend the interests of all the world, not only of a minority that hides behind those agreements that you signed in 2004 and that it is necessary to review. That's why we absolutely asked for the review. What do you ask the county to join now? But what do you think, that the Coruña citizenship can be a mere guest of stone to which you have previously agreed in a back-to-back office to citizenship? No sir, the times when things are going back to town are over. That was the case with non-democratic corporations, but it's not the same as our own democratic system. [[Protests.]] By the way, if you're interested in knowing what the Coruña citizenship thinks of what you've just done, look, for the vast majority of you, the Council of Coruña approved last week a motion that brings you a message, and says, "For the vast majority of social and political in the Coruña, first, to repudiate institutional disloyalty and lack of respect for the closeness of the president of the Union." That's not what a mayor tells you, I don't tell you a parliamentary group, tell you the citizenry of the Crown, who doesn't want to be invited by stone from its descent, from its antiquity, from the city closed to the sea. [[Murmurs.]] They don't want that. In addition, they urge the Galician Union to leave this protocol of April 18 without effect to open up a dialogue process, where citizenship is heard and there is no final agreement, where they can only sign yes or no signature. They want to decide the corunais and corunais as they want to live a public space, as they want to open the city to the sea, as they want the enjoyment of the common good and the set of the coastal facade, and not an agreement that comes prefixed to them in the offices...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u74	Thank you, Mr. Villares, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u75	...that thinks of the particular interests of the People's Party and its friends, not in the whole of citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u76	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u77	Of course, Mr. Villares, that we can talk about the Crown, of course, if I'm delighted, but let it be clear that you want to talk about that particular matter. What surprises me, Your Honor, is that you don't understand that we are interested in the Coruña when we have just signed the definitive solution so that the inner docks of the Coruña remain the property of the coruñas. It's amazing that you don't understand, it's amazing! [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, so I see you're against the outer port of the Coruña, you're against the railway to the outer port of the Coruña and you're against that the inner docks of the Coruña remain of the coruñas, and it says, of course, that what you're sponsoring is a possible candidate of the PP. It must be that the three things are positive, because sponsoring someone with negative things, that only happens to them at tide, Your Honor. [[Laughter]] Don't worry, that's only what happens to the tides. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But let's go on, it turns out that the only democratic corporation in the history of the Crown is the current one. The democratic corporation of 2004, as the Socialist Party ruled by an absolute majority, was not democratic. And now it turns out that as I rule in Marea after losing the elections, that's absolutely democratic, as is logical. I mean, when we agreed with the democratic corporation and with a mayor with many more votes and many more concelers than the mayor of the tides the solution to the outer port and the solution to the interior docks, that wasn't democratic. And now it turns out that by listening to the mayor who has lost the elections — but the mayor is, and I respect him — and by fulfilling a motion from the Town Hall of Coruña to shield the public ownership of the docks with a pre-agreement that I sign with State Ports and I propose to the council if you have something to claim, that's not democratic. Mr. Villares, you will understand that about democracy you speak a lot, but you don't practice it very much. We honor, we speak of it, we practice it, we believe it and we don't like it for anything that, for example, the tides ask me for explanations for Banesco's intervention by the Venezuelan Government. That, of course, Your Honor, I don't admit it, I know you're going to ask me for explanations, they've already asked for them. [[Murmurs.]] They ask me for explanations that a government friend of tides intervenes in a bank, and it turns out that the responsibility lies with the chairman of the People's Party of Galicia. [[Laughter]] That's democracy, Mr. Villares. That's democracy! [[Applause]] No doubt about it! We must learn what democracy is in this Chamber. Look, Your Honor, democracy is on the side of the people of the Coruña tides, because they buy apartments for friends. That's absolutely democratic, of course! [[Murmurs.]] Democracy is, for example, in advertising and propaganda increasing the budget of the city of Coruña by 37%. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm reading budget data. Democrat is, making a joke called Coastal Weaving, spending 100,000 euros on a meeting and, however, not wanting to talk to the president of the board about the Coruña coast. That's very democratic. [[Murmurs.]] Democrat is spending 1,340,000 euros on advertising and advertising and 328,000 euros on housing. That's very democratic. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, Your Honor. By the way, of the 382,000 euros in housing, you're going to cancel 225,000 for irregularities. [[Protests.]] Look, I don't have any drawbacks, I've always understood with him, with the mayor of the Crown, I'm convinced that the mayor of the Crown is satisfied with what the president of the board did by the city of the Crown, you have no doubt. Another thing is what I have to say. And I'm telling you one thing, I'm absolutely proud that this government has taken a decision: to shield the docks for the crownings for the first time since we started the project of the outer port. It's as true as truth is the protocol we signed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u79	Mr. Villares, there is no lesson in democracy. I put together a solution with the Democratic Government of the Coruña in 2004 and I made a motion by the Government of Coruña in 2018. That's democracy and respect for the krunis. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. We're still on the agenda. Quiet, please. What do you want the word for, Mr. Casal? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, silence, silence. Quiet, please! Silence! I don't know if that's... nothing was heard from here. No, sorry, please, quiet. [[Laughter]] Silence! This isn't a school yard, it's not a tavern, I'm here... No, Mr. Basketballs. Mr. Balsairos and Mr. Casal, don't talk. You didn't hear what happened here. In any case, behave. No, but you don't serve me either, because if you won't say... between you and yourself, eh! Thank you, thank you, please. Between you and me, eh! Among yourselves, thank you. Please, where we got here! Well, shut up. I don't know what the problem is. Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Silence! We'll resume when this is to resume. I'm in no hurry. No, no hurry. [[Murmurs.]] We'll do it right, when this is in the environment of being able to talk. People who are here in the use of the word must be protected, they don't need an environment that bothers them. Let's take this calmly from all of us. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, you're the first, too. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Justice in connection with the creation of new judicial units in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u81	There is a self-amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group and amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Galician Nationalist Block and the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u82	Mr Moreira has the floor to make a non-law proposal. [[Murmurs.]] Wait till there's silence. [[Murmurs.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u83	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. The year 2010 was the last year in which they had been established in the traditional sense of the term in our community, since due to the economic crisis and the law on the creation of squares in the public sector, the Ministry of Justice had adopted the decision not to proceed with the creation of new judicial units under the 2011 programming. It must be said that this was with the former Socialist Government. Thus, after the creation in Galicia in 2010 of 9 judges, no trial has been created until now. Even at the time of 2010 there were territories, such as the Autonomous Community of Valencia, which could not put the judicial bodies that the Ministry of Justice gave them that year into operation. That's why it was a remarkable fact that under the 2017 programming the Ministry of Justice had set up 37 new judges. And with regard to the concrete creation of judges in the traditional sense of the term, the Ministry consulted with the instrumental administrations their availability for their implementation, the reality being that only 15 out of 87 came into operation last January 31, and among them the 4 judges corresponding to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. And being also the reality that other territories postponed their entry into operation, most of them for the last semester of this year, and some still without a date of entry into operation. And it should be noted, however, that on every occasion where the Central Government has decided to set up new units, the Government of the Union has always expressed its willingness to assume the number of organs that conform to the objective criteria are assigned to our community. And that the concrete determination of which these units must be is always a result of the analysis of the needs within the Joint Committee with the High Court of Justice, making the request for establishment in a manner that is always consistent with the Superior Court's Government Chamber and unanimously with the Joint Committee. And we must continue to move forward to meet the catalogue of needs that the said body considers necessary, and increasingly beyond subjective opinions or sectoral collectives, because it is the so-called representatives of the judiciary who know at first hand — as you can understand — and with a global view, the most appropriate measures, and even the Union of Galicia regarding the resources available on the territory. Our proposal therefore includes a request for the Ministry to continue the creation of new judicial units in Galicia as a result of this year's 2018 programming. But our proposal also deals with an issue which is currently of concern to the Greeks, and it is the wish to end the strike in Justice and to sign the proposal put forward by the Galician Council, an offer that meets the five points of the parliamentary agreement which had been adopted by this House unanimously. On the other hand, the improvement in Justice must be said not only when it comes to the creation of new organs and also of judicial infrastructures, as they are building, it also requires important doses of justice and tolerance of those involved. The offer made by the Galician Board would be submitted to the workers' consultation. But as far as we could see and hear from both workers and union leaders, that consultation was neither developed under the right climate nor with the minimum guarantees required. And so we watched with some shame and wonder what was going on last Friday, April 27, during the consultation. These are images, which we have, in which the voting day was carried out in insults by a sector of trade union representatives to workers who thought differently than that sector concerned intended. And the most serious thing is that they were delivered by those who are called workers' representatives. Even the so-called representatives of the workers have come to recriminalize the directors of the judicial offices, the lawyers and secretaries — now lawyers of the Administration of Justice — that they are exercising the executive functions that the organic law entitles them to. To such an extent that lawyers have been questioned in their task of organizing the service to avoid prejudices to citizens who attend an essential service, such as justice, and to avoid endangering essential legal goods. But not only were they confronted with the directors of the judicial offices, they also faced the workers who said they represented, comrades, but it just happened that they were not of their own rope. And I think everyone here is condemning the images that are circulating on social networks, that we saw in the media, screaming, insulting, to hold a democratic consultation, even damage in a particular vehicle of a union leader. I believe that these are situations that are more of their own countries where democracy is a value in the business, but which, of course, should be separated from our community. Behaviors that should not happen in any sector, in none, but I think much less in the sector of justice. And I'd like to think that all groups have the same opinion about what happened in that consultation with the workers. I hope so, because even the representatives of the other trade unions expressed that the consultation with the workers of Justice last Friday took place... literally said, "in a coercion environment that did not allow it to develop with guarantees." And they also report that "from the first hour of the morning there has been an intolerable persecution by assault groups organized by CUT, STAJ and CIG." These are the words of the other union leaders. And I want to make a difference, in particular. When the vote on the agreement took place, it was produced under duresses, insults, damage to vehicles, police intervention, and the result was a no to the agreement. And yesterday, in an assembly where there was no kind of coercion or disturbance, because what went out was to stop the strike, I think it's a very important difference to underline. And what we have to say is that the strike has done a terrible, difficult to calculate damage to the users of Justice and to legal operators, such as lawyers and prosecutors. But what we have to say is that the Union has fulfilled its parliamentary mandate here adopted, and has scrupulously fulfilled it. On May 2, the strike committee called for a meeting at the Galician board where it called for the meeting to move forward in two ways: in the definition of the review clause and in the work hours recovery plan. Interestingly, two issues that were not in the parliamentary mandate, two issues that were not part of the demands that started the strike. What it means is that there is no discrepancy about what is in the parliamentary agreement, and what is meant is that what was included in the parliamentary mandate is being fulfilled. I think this is the show, but, in case it was little, even today, a union officer says that one speaks of an agreement that met the demands. They are acknowledging that this agreement met the demands of the justice sector. However, if everything you asked for is offered and to sign, the question is, why does the strike continue? That's what the Greeks and many workers in Justice ask. And now there are unions that come together with a novice mode, which is to interrupt the strike, something like unemployment. I think it's a semantic juggling that even some unions are claiming it's a figure that doesn't exist. Right now there aren't all the unions on the strike committee either, there are doubts, there's confusion, who's the interlocutor now in the case of the strike? And in the end, what is happening is that you're adding more confusion, and what is needed, ladies and gentlemen, is clarity to resolve as soon as this situation is done. Because if the officials were to sign the agreement, they could already be enjoying the advantages and wage improvements, or other kinds of advantages included in this proposal. Yesterday the follow-up of the strike was less than 4% — it didn't reach 4% — and when the strike was called — and it was an important follow-up, as it was recognised by the Galician Union and this parliamentary group — we took note. And I think that now that the strike is barely followed, we hope that the unions will also take note, because what we need now is to end with this dispute, with this conflict and that an agreement is signed on the table, but we have to sign with all the unions. We therefore propose to urge the Galician Council to address the Ministry of Justice to continue, under the 2018 programming, with the creation of new judicial units. But we also believe that it is appropriate — and we propose here today — for Parliament to manifest itself vigorously condemning the attitudes shown by a trade union sector against the employees of the Administration of Justice. I don't think we can produce this kind of action again, and we therefore ask that we all come to an agreement. It is recognised that this proposal by the Galician Council meets all the points of the parliamentary mandate here unanimously because it is clear that what is now in question is two points which were not part of the parliamentary agreement. So, for our part, nothing else. Then I'll speak in relation to the amendments. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u84	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. We greet the first students at the ESO at the Plurilingual Institute of Elvina, the Coruña, and also the teachers who accompany us today. Welcome to Parliament. You have the floor now, for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Moreira, it became clear that his initiative was not about the creation of new judges, but about the strike of Justice. What happens is that they didn't dare present it as such, in these four months they didn't dare present here any concrete proposals to solve this strike. [[Applause]] And now they've come from a cover-up putting this proposal here, opportunistically. Do you know what we're saying? The strike is a democratic right, it is a right to defend the interests of the working class, and who has to decide whether to reach agreements is the representation of the working class, workers and workers, through democratic procedures such as consultations. [[Applause]] You don't like appointments, especially when you lose them, because you've already prepared the picture. Mr. Rueda had already prepared the press round and he was taken by the photo, as he was caught when he tried to divide the strike committee by negotiating with him as well, he had also prepared the press conference and he was beheaded because he was not accepted by the agreement. [[Applause]] And you're lying and manipulating with complete contempt, because you're here saying that the parliamentary agreement is met. Look, who has to decide whether the parliamentary agreement is met in all its terms, in all its terms of negotiation, is the union representation and it is the workers and the workers in a democratic vote. Not you, not even this Parliament. Because you were worth an increase of 55 euros in three years, which proposed that I propose to you in December, and which you, too - according to you - complied with the Parliamentary agreement. And now we're at 140 euros. What are we talking about? Who has to decide whether the proposal is worth it is union representation and, in any case, workers and workers. You don't impose it here. But really, what you did was artificially prolong the strike, because what you wanted was to defeat and humiliate the union representation. But they didn't get it and they couldn't win that vote, and that's why this answer, that's why this spirit of revenge, which is what moves them right now to you. And indeed, strike is a collective failure, but it is a collective failure above all because of the responsibility of the Government of the People's Party and Mr. Rueda, who is primarily responsible for this conflict not yet resolved. And of course, yes, union representation has the right to claim as one of the fundamental points of the agreement the recovery of lost days, the recovery, too, that would, in any case, allow for the recovery of all lost work and speed up the processing that is behind. His initial initiative here today, which was about the creation of the new judges, which makes it manifest — as well as the conflict of strike manifest — is the critical situation in which the Administration of Justice is present. It's really in the ICU, it's in intensive care the Administration of Justice, not the strike, it was before. Because at the Lugo Social Court they were already two years behind bars and there was no strike. And that's because we haven't put in place the means for an administration of axil justice, next, that would respond to people's problems, and because we have, in addition, a administration of justice in this country that is deeply reactionary, retrograde and machist, as we have just seen in the last judgments that have just been uttered. That's one of the great problems of an estate administration of justice, too, of frankism, as many of its ideological approaches. [[Applause]] And with regard to the proposal for the creation of new judges, we have already discussed this issue here last year, we have already concluded that it was absolutely insufficient, as you have acknowledged on your day, too, Mr Rueda in the negotiation of the Joint Committee, which was absolutely insufficient for the proposal of four new judges. We've reached agreements in that sense, but we're tired of reaching agreements with you, of agreements that are not met, of becoming wet paper and of throwing them to the stationery after you get here at agreements with you. So we have a lot of doubts, really, if we should again come to an agreement that is not worth anything. Look, the Administration of Justice has many problems with the lack of means, the lack of staff, the discrimination suffered by the officials of the Greek Justice Administration who led him to this strike, the problems of infrastructure and equipment, the problems of creating new judges, the problems of substitutions. The judges cannot be closed in August, especially the judges of macho violence; they cannot be closed in August as has been happening these years. What we propose -- because this is not a tomb, this is not a auction to see how much happens to anyone, to everyone in court -- is that we have to create what we ask, which seems to us to be a sensible proposal, and to set up a working group on the basis of parliamentary agreements that examine the needs of new judges in Galicia, which the High Court of Justice has already said were many more than what was proposed here, as well as the necessary measures and priorities for modernizing, agitating and having a truly efficient and modern administration of justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u87	This is our proposal, let's hope that they will accept it and that we can come to an agreement that really works for something, not as it has so far been wet paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u89	Thank you, President. Good morning. I welcome our guests, who are always good at seeing new faces in this Parliament. Possible conversation between Mr. Rueda and Mr. Rafael Catalá: "Rafa, send me half a kilo of judges this year." This is your balance sheet, in eight years, 4 judicial bodies in our autonomous community. That's the result, that's the real balance. And I must die to bring this initiative to this Parliament today. A parliamentary group that now comes here tells us that they've got half a kilogram of trials every year for Galicia, and come here to tell us that we need to tell them we need more, but not say anything else. We need a lot more than you say and what you do, I'm not asking anymore, but they can. We need new judicial bodies in the provincial hearings of Lugo, in Pontevedra for Vigo, which take years to dictate judgement, years, Mr. Moreira; a new social trial in Santiago, in Lugo, in Vigo, because it takes years to go to trial, to summon people to trial; a new trial of first instance in the Coruña; more prosecutors, more prosecutors in the prosecution. It would be enough for you to comply with your own decree of the year 2014, to comply with your own standards came upon us as soon as possible. A prosecutor against corruption and organized crime for Galicia, who Galicia's own superior prosecutor asks for in his memory. More personal for the Immelga, a budget game not to be left without judges and judges substitutes for half a year — in June last year —. A new judicial office in the seven Galician cities and in all judicial starting head organs and that works, not a pilot experience only in Ourense. And that's our amendment. Of course, we must congratulate him, because it must be — it should be — the Journal of Sessions — the first time in history that an initiative is amended by all parliamentary groups, including their own. Because you have to die to self-amend, you have not submitted a single initiative during the conflict of justice, relating to the conflict of justice. And you can record, the honourable Member will be more interested in you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They can record — because, as they often tell us, they have 41 Members — non-legislative proposals. So, Mr. Moreira, you could have registered a non-responsive bill for this whole only with what he says in his amendment if they really cared about something, something, the conflict of justice. The problem is, they don't care about conflict or justice. Now that this is fashionable to defend the fight against machismo, for in our amendment we collect the demands that the Galician society has demanded of us all this time: more exclusive judges of violence against the woman, a permanent psychologist to assist the victims in those trials, the launching of a personalized judicial accompaniment — that you refuse —, the comarcalization of the services of the Immelga, the victim care offices and the judicial police, especially for those provinces of Lugo and Ourense that you refuse. And the commitment to invest in specific and permanent training for all those people who belong to the judicial and fiscal career, that we don't believe they are heirs of franchise; we don't believe, they are democratic people exactly like the others and they do their work every day, the workers and all the officials of the Administration of Justice. But if they need someone to teach them how to interpret regulation from the point of view of gender, that's indisputable. And that would serve — with all that we are asking for in our amendment — so that we don't fall in the face of shame between that judgement of the Provincial Audience in Pontevedra almost thirty years ago, of the life of a bachelor, and the particular vote of La Manada just a month ago. Because in that judgment almost thirty years ago — twenty-nine to be exact — there was talk of the victim as a married girl, though separated, and therefore, with sexual experience, of leisure life, without a fixed home, alone in a discotheque and who had sat in the car between two unknown men willing to be used sexually. Well, to move forward in justice and not to spend another twenty-nine years and we have to have similar judgments, it would be nice if you would accept our amendment, and if you would like in the next plenary, Mr. Moreira, to record a proposal not by law a little more serious than your self-amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. I turn to the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, and you have the floor to Mrs. Santos Queiruga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that from our group we think that we have come to debate on a GNP and not to come to hear the attacks of the People's Group — even though it is not strange at all — the right to strike and the actions of the union representatives. The truth is, it's a little surreal that they devote this time to manifesting their deeply anti-democratic spirit and that they keep muttering all the rights they have achieved. Also, perhaps, as they have submitted an empty proposal of content and they don't have much to say, or perhaps they have a lot to say in order not to end up saying anything, because they have to be attacking the freedoms and rights that are exercised through the union struggle and the right to strike so as not to talk about what they use this Parliament to oppose, to prepare municipalities and not to make politics for the Greeks and Greeks on a proposal basis. That's the big problem, perhaps, that most absolutists have. From En Marea we have considered the need to ascertain in what respects is the declaration of intentions containing the proposed container of the People's Party charged. It is necessary to create new trials arising from the existence of workload that makes necessary its creation, status recognized and known by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and the Joint Committee itself, and thus we present an amendment which, like those of the other groups, raises the need to create at least 3 new social trials in Lugo, Santiago and Vigo; new family trials in Coruña, Pontevedra, Vigo, Ourense and Lugo; new judges specialized in gender violence in Ourense and Lugo; and 1 more comarcal competition in Pontevedra. New trials of the litigation-administrative in the seven major cities of the country. To improve justice is to improve response times and bring it closer to citizenship. Justice, to be effective, must respond agilely and in short time, and this is not possible if there are no more resources, not only physical or technical, but also human. That's why our amendment also envisages compromising the necessary budgetary departure to the effect. But, above all, who can take the People's Party seriously that supports a government unable to allocate resources to justice, material or personal? How are we going to take a government seriously unable to solve a devastating strike in Justice, where they didn't take the demands for improvement in the working conditions of workers and workers of Justice, demands that were not only and are of an economic nature, but also of resources and recognition of rights that would have a better quality service for citizenship. A Union that is more concerned about publicly twisting the motives of strike, criminalizing strike, than finding a solution to cover the futility, failure and attempts to submit by Mr. Rueda, his political inoperence and his tyrannical attempt to resolve this conflict. And as you failed, now we have to draw attention and divert attention to other things that nothing has to do with, beyond attacking civil rights and freedoms. The Board and its officials, in this case Mr. Rueda, have shown inability to manage the strike and to reach agreements. That's the only truth. That's why the Government has to worry, and you, Mr. Moreira, have to come here and worry about securing the necessary resources and the ability to agree that will enable you to overcome the current situation of mismanagement of justice, the poor situation of workers and workers and the lack of resources directly affecting citizenship. Justice must guarantee access to it by citizenship under Article 24 of the Spanish Constitution: all persons have the right to obtain effective custody of judges and courts in the exercise of their legitimate rights and interests, without in any case there can be no defence. That's what you should worry about here, exercising your absolutist majority to talk about justice. There is defence, and we have already seen it in cases already maximum such as the Manada case, when access is not guaranteed, and when during processing and until the resolution of it is produced — part of judgments with a clear ideological bias—unjustified delays or undue delay, as a result of the abnormal functioning of the Administration of Justice. So, instead of trying to take responsibility for those who fight for rights and freedoms, and for the equalization of rights and absolutely legitimate issues, you should realize that the administration if it doesn't work is a damage to all citizenship and there's a demand for courts of new squares, demands for more judges and judges, demands for more resources, and if you don't take care of it, it's because you don't want to.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u93	Because they have a personal crusade with justice, because lately they have a lot of revolting judges and workers who are dedicated to unleashing the corruption of the People's Party. So, therefore, meet the demands of Justice, make use of the trust given to them by the Greeks and the Greeks, don't look for excuses...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u94	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u95	... they don't criminalize civil rights and freedoms and do their work, which they pay them for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos. Thank you very much. He's got the shift on the part of the non-legislation panel, Mr. Moreira Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Very good morning. Here in this non-law proposition there are more groups that have also been self-amended, in Marea and BNG they have also self-amended themselves with few minutes of difference. On the other hand, I want to remember here—after there is an offer from the Galician Council with which there are trade unions that already agree with it, and there are workers who agree with it, and that there is no belief that there is any point in discussion that is not met—what opposition spokespersons say. BNG spoke of the prepotence and closure of the Galician Union, which persists in maintaining labour discrimination, wages and rights of this collective, and a blockade. Where's the lock? The deal is for signing. Where is the mouth on the side of the board? Mr. Bará, you think you're a concel in Pontevedra or you were, I don't know, I don't see you there much; in any case, your party continues to rule in minority in Pontevedra. I invite you to offer the officials of the Pontevedra Town Hall an agreement with 13% increase. They're waiting for him. Pontevedra officials are waiting for that 13% improvement, and the local police. You know that very well. Give us an example of how to make improvements. [[Applause]] It's funny, you yourself here yesterday, that we brought a proposal for agreement, an amendment to a PSOE motion asking to develop an agreement that was signed at the national level between the Ministry of Business with the main trade union organizations, the result of the dialogue of a People's Party government with the unions, you came here saying that this was an agreement negotiated between domes and trade unions between domes and domes. What are we left with, Mr Bará? What are we left with? Should we talk to the unions and make arrangements? Or when you get to agreements are agreements between bambalins? That was a lack of respect for the unions, for their part. And today he comes here to say the opposite, as if it were separate episodes the full yesterday and the one today. It's the same full and the same House, and the same Greek people that you're listening to; what changes the texture and opinion is the BNG. You have no criteria, Mr Bará, you have no criteria. I'm sure, if you come to an agreement now, you'll also say it's a two-way agreement. What are we left with? Do you want to end the conflict of justice or not? Doesn't that look like a 13% rise or not? If it doesn't seem like it, you'll get better and give us an example of how it gets better. As for the Tide, you say we attack the right to strike. Home! I believe that the only forces that were here were when there were workers who tried to vote in freedom on the proposal of the Government of Galicia and did not leave them. And look, you talked about resources, I'll give you a simple data. Justice has today in Galicia better budget allocation this year than in the best year of the Bipartite, for looking for a reference, when there were another 2,000 million euros. And then there were 99 million euros in justice. Today President Feijóo's government is destined, with €2,000 million less, € 146 million, almost 50% more. These are the resources that the Government of Galicia has allocated to justice, which you do not know. And finally, to finish, in relation to the amendments, we're not going to accept them. We don't believe, as far as BNG is concerned, that we have to set up a working group to determine which judicial bodies are necessary or not. There's already a working group, there's already the Joint Commission, which is where they decide...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u98	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u99	...all these questions. As for the other proposals, they propose to create bodies in particular. I believe that we must debate this in the Joint Committee. So we are not going to accept any of the amendments, and what we are asking is that of all of us, from this Parliamentary House, if these attitudes are condemned...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u100	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u101	...which occurred among the workers of justice. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u102	Thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Dolores Toja Suárez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the realization by the Italian Government of a study on the possible implementation of the system of individual transferable quotas and its implications for the multi-specific fisheries operating in the Cantabrico
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u103	This motion for a non-law has been tabled by two amendments, the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea and the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u104	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Toja Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Within the trends that are seen within the framework of the common fisheries policy, we note that they are beginning to proliferate proposals on alternatives to resource management. One of these is called ITQ. But what are ITQs? ITQs are individual transferable quotas. The difference with the TAC system and traditional quotas is essentially in which fishermen are the owners of fishing resources. So in the ITQ-based system there are possible scenarios, and one of them, for example, where you could earn more money by renting quota, renting fishing opportunities, instead of fishing. It involves investing in the sector to buy quota, and finally, what we're talking about is privatizing the sea. Two management models. One based on the common good. Another, quite different, which implies the speculation of an open market as a result of difficulties in control and real access to fishing opportunities for the weakest, and, on the other hand, benefits those other sectors, which can exploit and benefit even in a hidden way. The big business in front of the weakest, who don't always lose the same. In front of overfishing, every day it sounds stronger this model, to promote and protect the private property applicable to fishing. The idea that much of the environmental problems can be solved through improved and increased allocation of private property rights is becoming increasingly present in conservative discourses. And why do we bring this issue to the full today? Well, for a number of reasons. One of them, the National Register of Fishing Opportunities document, which is the step before the creation of the ITQ system. Two. Another reason. We know that Segepesca is currently working on a draft that closes management of the ITQ model, a document that the sector is waiting for. They told him they were going to give it to him for Holy Week, now Mrs. Seijo said the other day in Burela that they would probably give it to him for June. It's a reality, we could all read in the press the other day the government opens the door to the purchase of coupons. In the face of a failed fisheries management up to now, setting up a system of property rights as a solution. That's what Segepesca wants us to sell, a system, a failed fisheries management. Simply by consulting EPA data, if we consult and compare the first quarter of the year 2017 with the first quarter of 2018, we see that in Galicia 4,400 people have been lost in the sea sector. And 4,400 people means that out of every five jobs, there's one less. That's what a failed model is. In the face of agriculture, industry, conservation and services, fishing data are devastating, and even worse if we review the data for women, 31% less women in just one year, from the first quarter of 2017 to the first quarter of 2018. A plan failed because, as you know, the year 2013 was declared null, the year 15 had complaints, it had to be modified twice. In the end, a problem arising from the incompetence of a government that offers as a solution now privatization; that is, the sector assumes the incompetence of the Government. Good governance would be to come out of a problem the Government has put us in. The Central Government and the German Government, who have failed to comply with the rules they have regulated, opening cracks, causing problems in a sector, present problems and future problems. Futures because, as you know, we have more than 4,400 ships that haven't guaranteed generational relief. The Cantabrian Management Plan is a non-transparent document, it does not allow to operate in equilibrium to the fleet. There is a problem since 2013, the Administration cannot take so long to make a management change, and the alternative cannot be privatised by the sea. And the German Government, in view of this, must protect, must defend, the Welsh fleet. How long has the sector been asking, without answering, why do there be privileges in this country in fishing according to where you live? Because everything, all this was known. And why isn't everyone the same? It draws attention to the fact that the documents, with the amendments made all these years, have always been currency of exchange with the autonomous communities, the possibilities of fishing in political negotiations, even if doubting the constitutionality of distributions. They've always been in the middle of that data, and you know it. Why does the sector — I ask — have to be begging? Where are we going with closing dates in March and April? Just what are the reasons? Because in the same locker some have some possibilities and others have other possibilities, depending, for example, on the flag or the purchasing power. It seems common to ask yourself these questions, just to put a voice to the sector. If we don't change governance, we'll continue with the same problems in the sector. This system, the ITQ system, poses serious risks to the weakest. In Galicia, as you know, 85% of the fleet is craftsmanship, small and craftsmanship. Who's going to benefit from an ITQ system, a privatization system? Of course, the little ones don't. They will always do the most powerful in the face of the weak. Who's going to hurt? I think the answer is obvious: to the usual ones. It's a reality, this system opens up the possibility of serious dangers for the smallest, obvious risks. We know, therefore, that since the Spanish Administration it is intended to open the door to the purchase of coupons, with a line that ultimately consists of making more money by trading with quotas than fishing, rather than catching species. This model does not seem to be suitable in the Cantabrian north-west, where fishing vessels are multi-specific, multi-arte, i.e., few on many species. Galicia is not Norway, which has few species. Galicia is multi-specific. Choosing a model or another is no doubt an ideological option and it obeys a way of governance, with interests created and geared towards establishing the property of access to resources; that will determine the future of the Welsh fishing. From the Socialist Group we believe that the economic profitability of fishing should be based on long-term planning to restore fish stocks, taking into account the environmental balance, but also taking into account the survival of the fleet. In the middle of all this, the real concern of the sector is to survive. So today from the Socialist Group, what we ask the Government to do is do a study, what value, that measures the consequences that Galicia can have for the implementation of the ITQ system. We urge the Government to anticipate, to what extent these consequences are worth, and for at least four reasons: One. On the one hand, because of the 4,000 Galician ships, 85%, are artisanal and multi-specific. Two. Because there's a public announcement, made by the central government, that opens the door to the purchase of coupons. Three. Because there is a real threat to those who are weaker. Four. Because it's possible that speculators come in. That's a reality. And five. Avoid the same mistakes that have been made historically in the Cantabria northwest. Five reasons for this initiative to be approved. He's simply asking for a study prior to the implementation of a system that can bring serious consequences to the Welsh sailors. But if all these reasons, these five reasons, they're not enough, they're raised by questions that for now have no answer. In an area where we have here, for the year 2019 — it comes soon, it is already a matter of a few months — the obligation to land, and if we do not know, it seems that in Europe they are closing the door to the flexibility of the system, which means how this system of ITQ fits and how it will affect in particular those that we say, smaller and smaller arts. What are you gonna stay for fishing? Miseries! At least give them an answer to these kinds of questions. And another question we asked them. Did you appreciate that instead of selling these quotas, for example, they are divided among the most disadvantaged? These are issues that are open and that, perhaps, before this system is implemented, the Government of Greece should have a study that values the repercussions it might have for the Welsh fleet this model. By unmasking reality, you have no other objective than to reduce the fleet of the Cantabrian. Europe is committed to reducing the fleet of the Cantabrian, and this goal is born for that, because if it really amortizes amortises, you can also cushion that possibility of fishing and receiving money in return. Little by little, the ships of the Cantabrian wharf will be reduced. Unmasking reality, that's the goal, this system is suitable for reducing the fleet of the Cantabrian. In June the sector will have the document, what we are asking the Government today is to anticipate, to do a study, to assess how Galicia will impact the implementation of this system. We want to assume that there will be no drawback in accepting this initiative. If they don't convince him of all the reasons we gave him, just to be careful...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u106	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u107	...—yes— because the Treaty of the European Community itself lays down in Article 174 the precautionary principle, which is normally used for the conservation of resources, but which must also be taken into account for social sustainability. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. We are talking about parliamentary groups. The Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea has the floor to Mrs Santos Queiruga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the Socialist Group for this initiative. It is a proposal in which we share what is at the heart of the matter and the concern for the sector, and of course we share the analysis of the data, that goes ahead. It's a proposal that I'm proposing to do a study, a report that looks at how it would affect the application of ITQs to the Canary Islands, and we've obviously shared this same concern, but we understand that the effect of this application would be quite negative. That's why we present our amendment to add; that is, we agree that it goes ahead with the report, but the truth is that there are already studies that detect the problems arising from this privatization fishing model, and so we refer to those studies. For us it would be like pruning a tree with a squirm. That's why we don't think it's best. It is necessary to act to ensure the sustainability of fish stocks in the Cantabria and all the seas on the planet, but we do not share that this is the formula. That is why we added, through our amendment, the following text, which would be: "The Greek Parliament expresses the need to guarantee its own shares to the craft fleet of the Cantabrian north-west, restricting the access of other fleets to their quotas and catches, in addition to the non-application of ITQs." The application of ITQs elsewhere on the planet has shown two things: on the one hand, it is not useful to reduce fishing effort, but rather to achieve reductions of up to 30% of the fleets and concentrate on fewer boats fishing effort and profit, which translates into concentration of capital, less employment and more scrapping. You can even create speculative bubbles on your elbows. Let's remember the problems of our dairy farm; it's precisely a case that can be equated. The deployment of individual transferable quotas means that these can be sold and bought at the best bidder, something that we think would be very pernicious, just like the privatization of marine resources. They could even be used as mortgage guarantees or subsidiary monetary guarantees, causing them to be used as assets and therefore a new market and financial speculation with quotas, which could produce an over-inflation of the price of these quotas, so that in many cases they exceed the real value generated by the affected fishing industry. But in addition, it would cause unacceptable imbalances for the craft fleet — which is the priority of our group to protect — and it would certainly be done on the basis of historical criteria, which would extend over time, by its being permanent, the inequalities that have already suffered our workers and workers from the sea and the entire fleet. In Marea it defends the distribution of quota, which must meet socio-economic criteria, not on the basis of historical data, and favour more than more jobs produced by downloaded tonne. It prevents access to the sea to new generations, which would be forced to buy quotas that would be above their real value, precisely by the speculative market, and let's remember what happened and happens in Galicia with the purchase of GTs for the ships and all the problems we have derived from this management. Finally, we would be letting ourselves fish only for those who can afford it, which is totally unfair — and we can never support it — and by concentrating resources on the hands of the strongest and most powerful, and not on most of the sea sector in our country, and above all people who have every right to be able to work equally with those who have more resources than they do, because the sea has always been an unequal source of wealth on our land and who has given access to all the working classes and social majority of the entire coastline, directly and indirectly. So if the Socialist Group accepts our amendment to add, we will support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor, Mrs Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u111	Good morning, thank you President, and good morning, gentlemen. I have to start by saying that the Socialist Party is bringing here today an initiative that generates a certain alarmism. You are becoming very alarmist and scaring the fishing sector, from the point of view of assumptions, of what you think, with the themes you always talk about, besides today, because we see that especially similar to the themes you always have in Marea here; until you say that subject of privatizing the sea. And we have to say that this is nothing strict. First, because there is no Cantabrian management plan yet -- you said it now -- these arguments that you draw, those conclusions that you draw are not from any plan, and so first you will have to see the plan and then you will have to draw the conclusions. It's working, but nothing business, nothing business, nothing privatization, nothing that you've got to say as long as it's going to end the sector and it's going to end, when, in addition, the data says everything else, because you're talking about conclusions, and here you say very horrible phrases and you expose themes that you've concluded here, but then the data says everything else. The reality is that we are working -- yes, it's true -- from the central government for the use of all quotas and the distribution of all quotas corresponding to Spain. It's also working in an orderly manner, and it's working and considering ITQs, which you always see the devil, as you always see, the devil in any word you can contain or some private property word. So, now they apply to the sea, they apply "marine bubble, they apply "privateization" to everything that is put before them, and this is a re-ordering of the sea sector and taking advantage of the quotas there is, and being ahead of us to some topics, as you said here too, which is the possibility of implantation that there is then an obligation to disembark, and that, in addition, by course, this is a subject that can help that adaptation. The law completely prevents people who have no boat from acquiring fishing quotas separately. That's clear. And you also know, besides, that there are many limitations on quota transfers, permanent and non-permanent. Sometimes they're also untapped, and many times, in addition, the permanents are on ships of the same census. So that's what you say that many will always end up with the same, those theories are their speculations, they're not realities, nor are they no conclusion, as I say, of any study. That, if you want more studies, as Mrs. Santos has said — there is already one — if you want more studies, we are willing to have a change, we put an amendment only to the text, which does not change the essence of your LNP, because we have no problem with doing any studies, because the fact is that, in addition, the conclusions often give that the system being used and the measures being taken forward are positive to the sector and are also improving profitability, improving in many cases in addition and facilitating the possibilities and setting and taking the necessary steps to further adapt to the European measure, especially those of the discards, which is the one that we are most concerned about now. So you don't come here to talk about ideological management. What ideology? You don't know if you remember when the Socialist Party was ruling — it's been clear for some time now that the Socialist Party has not ruled; I don't know, in addition, if it's going to rule again — but it's funny that you, when they're ruling in the Central Government, and even in the Bipartite, were there orders that said exactly the same thing. For example, the 2008 order that regulated the distribution of bluefin tuna quotas, which was chosen exactly by the same model, and it was a command issued by you. Then, even above all, it was the ones who started the fleet distributions by guiding the management of the ITQs, and then, when the People's Party arrived, it was what had to improve the distribution to defend the fleet of the minor arts. The People's Party has arrived and improved the distribution to defend the fleet of minor arts. So don't say anything else here. We don't quite understand the explanatory statement. I, frankly, when I read the explanatory statement of this PNL, did not understand it very well, and above all knowing how the fisheries policy that the Socialist Party practiced when it governed and the common fisheries policy that is being carried out in Europe, which is developing in the whole of Spain and with specific interest and the pressure of Galicia, always at the front of other autonomous communities. Any quota system is bad if the quotas go down, but they don't increase, and therefore what is being done here, and the interest that is permanently on the side of the Galician Union and on the part of this Government, and on the part of the People's Party, always, is to be in the hands of the sector. And no ideology. Here's a saying from the Galician Fisheries Council, which has raised needs and petitions, and that's what's going on. But the Socialist Party rejected this ruling from the Galician Fisheries Council sector in Parliament. So we conclude that we have to get out is that this is not negative. I'm going to give you the latest data, which you've probably already heard, because you can't miss the opportunity to talk about the data, the terms of download and the volume of invoicing. The year 2017 was the best exercise in the historical series, with 27% of the annual average, and in terms of volume of billing the record of the historical series, with 18.7% above the annual average, and thus breaking that 500 million euro barrier into billing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u112	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u113	Finally, President, saying that we tabled an amendment. We agree to accept the essence of this LNP, which is to do a study, but do not urge the Government of Greece to carry out the study that analyzes the possible implementation of the quota system, but rather the evolution of the implementation of the quota system, and add, in addition: "both in terms of improved discharges and availability of quotas in Galicia". We believe that it remains more complete and that it is more rigorous than you present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u114	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u115	Good morning. Once again, the People's Party again accuses of unfounded alarmism, and of course, what creates alarmism is not the initiatives we bring here, Mrs. People's Party; what produces alarmism is the measures it takes. And he says that what concerns the People's Party right now is the measures of discards. When we brought here initiatives and warned of what that measure was supposed to mean, it turns out that the People's Party accused us of alarmism and said that the subject of discards would be an opportunity, and it turns out that, five years later, they haven't done anything in five years and it turns out that they're now worried about the subject of discards. If they dealt with it when the European Union wanted to impose the problem, they weren't so worried now and they had avoided a problem in the sector. Same, same, right? [[Applause]] Turns out we're in the same now. It turns out that QITs are a new opportunity and it turns out that QITs are a further consequence of this entry into the European Common Market at its time by the Spanish State, and the new common fisheries policy 2014-2020 is the maintenance of those same conditions that the Spanish State has accepted, and that this new common fisheries policy does not change, and that introduces the obligation to go to that model of QITs, which are the non-transferable individual quotas, and which means modifying the public right of marine resources by the right of use for shipowners and to become private law. We do not say so, it is in the common fisheries policy, Madam. Maybe if I wanted to read it... it's going from that public model to a private model, in the hands of a few shipowners. That's right: a few. Once you have acquired that right, you can sell it, rent it, exchange it, that a few decide that you do it with them for your own business. It means respecting that principle of relative stability which condemns the Spanish State to maintain a 7% of these fishing rights. That's the reality. It means, therefore, that a few will improve as jobs are destroyed, the economic activity that generates the entire coastal communities of our country, refusing to regulate our fishing sector and continuing to evaluate measures that are not to tackle the problems and strengths that our country has, but to destroy our fishing model, despite the fact that certain shipowners and associations, which are mostly those that defend the People's Party, will benefit. A few, a certain group of industries, a certain group of shipowners will benefit, but not the whole sector of our country. And it is evidence that the European Union legislates not for sailors or for employment, nor for maintaining economic activity, but only for a group of shipowners, who will see how fishing rights become economic value for themselves. Without need of fishing, they will have business, because, without need of fishing them, they will be able to acquire those fishing rights and with them they will be able to speculate; they will be able to sell them, rent them, change them. And those small fleets, those small boats, they'll have to end up selling those fishing rights in exchange for small aids and subsidies, and what you'll see is that most of our fleet, most of those ships in our sector will end up in the hands of a few. Fisheries policy is pure hypocrisy, and, of course, we can see it as in our artisanal fishing, as in the garden, the sardine, the mouth, although in the literature they say that certain issues are to favor artisanal fishing, then the reality is what we see as in the way: how many tons have for the way? 175, for example. And that's where you see the reality of these models. Or we can talk about what the reality of the mouth is, which has practically no quota. And you come here to defend that model. Of course, at the BNG we don't defend these models. The experiences of this model elsewhere give this excessive concentration, that concentration of capital to the service exclusively of capital. And, of course, vessels with greater possibilities — more efficient, more effective — have the opportunity to increase their fishing capacity even further; vessels with less profitability — less efficient from those criteria — must go selling their fishing rights, receive compensation and leave the sector. If you continue with this system, in a very short time, the sector in Galicia will almost be an anecdote, you will have to dedicate yourself to marine tourism, which is where you go to the sector, and fishing communities will lose the fishing rights accumulated for hundreds of years, and that generation of employment and resources on the coast, in the interest of that capitalization in the hands of a few.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u117	Of course, it's not BNG's model, they won't count on BNG's support, and we'll do everything possible and impossible because you don't pull that model forward. We will support the Socialist Party's initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u119	Mrs. Egerique, do you defend that the sea sector is going better, but what data do you use? Because I give you some data that are from the active population survey and there show 4,400 places less, 1 out of 5; and in the case of even worse women, 31% less than in a year. Then you'll tell me what data you use. It's just that I'm hallucinated with your answer, really! And he also criticized our LNP, and finally, when it's over, he says he's in line with the essence of the initiative. Well, of course it agrees with the essence of the initiative. He won't be! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And they talk in addition to reorganisation, re-or-de-na-tion. They're creating a new language, the metallengage on the right: re-or-de-na-nación. And in the end it says we create alarmism. Doesn't it seem alarming to you that 31% less women in the sea and 1 in 5 men less? Doesn't that sound alarming to you? [[Applause]] It seems alarming to me. [[Applause]] Here's the Galician rural population! So here's the rural population, because fishing has a responsibility too, which is a stabilizing factor in the population. What we ask you to do — to see if it is clear — is to study before the implementation of the ITQ system... — please, Mrs Egerique, I let you talk —...to assess the possible repercussions you may have. [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera speaks words that are not perceived.]] Before, for caution. And what you're offering us is to do the study later, when it's already implanted, when the damage is done. And why not before? You just don't get it! The scientific method leads to an analysis of the consequences of a decision a priori, not a posteriori; and when it does the posteriori, it is because some untrustworthy interests are defended. Yes, Mrs. Egerique, yes! [[Applause]] Before, not after! [[Applause]] It's 4,400 people less than a year, in a year! [[Applause]] That's what there is. Of course, we're not going to accept your amendment, logically. And with regard to En Marea's amendment, we can try to get into a transaction. I understand we'll have no problem getting to one. Anyway, I'm telling you, Mrs. Santos, that all our efforts will not be worth anything because the PP has already pulled the knee. And nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the salary situation of the teachers and the teaching staff of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u121	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u122	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u123	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Thanks also to the union representatives who accompany us and jump every day for improving the working conditions of the teaching staff in this country, and therefore for improving the quality of our teaching for all. I pledge that it is, of course, totally absent from this Government's political agenda. And his behavior reveals how much he cares about Feijó the education of our daughters and our children. So much so that, since 2009 when he arrived at the Government, the president of the board did not sit down once and for all with the teachers to negotiate with them improvements in their working conditions. Not once in nine years! Question of priorities, of course. For what if you had time and desire was to trim your rights over and over again, like the one that happened with the specific complement of the extraordinary payments eliminated by the Government of the United States from 2013 to 2017. Please note that it implied that since 2013 the German teaching collective had virtually lost an extra salary each year, being the only ones in the entire state that did not charge the autonomous part in the outstanding wages of 2016. This assumed that the German teaching staff had lost some amounts that ranged from 4,480 euros to an unanticipated teacher to 7,936 euros for a 30-year-old professor. Or the cut in the coverage of work casualties. Thus, this fantastic Law of Tax and Administrative Measures 12/2014, in its additional fourth provision, established that they will receive 50% of the wages, both basic and complementary, and the provision of dependent children, if so, from the first to the third day of the situation of temporary disability; regardless of whether it is the first, the second, or more temporary disability within the natural year. A provision that incomprehensiblely penalises the diseases and illnesses of the teaching staff. But not only that, the German Government refuses to cover the teachers' casualties in the first 15 days of their production. All this, as they repeat over and over again that the crisis has happened, but their attitude towards education remains the same: cutting and dismantling until public education of quality, as a universal right to all citizenship, is a blurry reminder of the past. Recovery for who? For the teachers at the public centers, I'm telling them no. For teachers and teachers who have been holding on their backs for years, not our education system. For all of them and for all of them silences, absences and scorns by a Government who has long decided to ignore all the many claims of rights come to his door. Except for the Professor of Religion, of course, that they do business with the People's Party. Anyone would say they enjoy a real papal bull due to which they are allowed nothing more and nothing less than to receive their salary every month without imparting a single hour of class. A ridicule, a contempt for the professor who leaves his back every day in the classrooms of the entire state to give us a better future. A contempt for all citizenship, which sees the public money squandered without shame. A real scandal over what the People's Party, and specifically the competent minister of education, preferred to look elsewhere. For the rest, increases in educational burden, increases in ratios, constant mistrust, more and more demands, abandonment, disillusionment... a situation that we consider particularly serious in our country because the Greek teachers and teachers are the least charged in the state. High school teachers face a comparative aggravation, they are always those who earn less wages. On the contrary, of course, the personnel of Euskadi or Navarre. The salary divide between the two is up to EUR 400 in the case of teachers and masters, and 500 in the case of secondary teachers. The latter charge in Galicia an average of 2,276 euros, compared to the 2,757 euros charged in Euskadi. Every year, this means nothing more and nothing less than a difference that goes around 6,000 euros, which meant EUR 200,000 less at the end of the career for the Greeks and Greeks who teach classes in our schools. Is this fair? Is it assumed? Do you perform different tasks that justify similar injustice? We think it's not, that it's time to pay the teaching staff properly. The gap is further enlarged if we note that in some communities there are permanent training supplements that do not exist in other territories. So as well as puppetry supplements, level or cycle coordination, department headage, residence or danger that are also returned differently depending on the place, which is going to make that pay gap bigger and bigger. Of course, this is not the first time in Galicia we've been in this situation. This is the meaning of the salary review agreements signed in 2003 and 2007. The latter — it must be remembered — is historical, the result of the consensus of all trade union organisations, tried to place Galicia in the sixth place of the salary table of teachers from all over the state. The agreement had incorporated a review clause which was, of course, forgotten and trampled. But an agreement that at the time reached the commitment to increase 150 euros from 1 January 2007 to 1 January 2009. Of course, from now on, since 2009, the situation has only worsened, until we are again in the same situation as in 2006. After analyzing the wage differences for each body and an ancient course, we again observe that the Greek teachers are far below that sixth place that had been reached at that time. That's why unions have claimed it's time to activate the review clause and start a negotiation that will put Galician teachers back in a fair place on this table. And it's just that right now, as we said, the teaching staff in Greece is still the worst pay of the state. In addition, wage freezes and cuts have made Galician teachers almost cover the same amount they paid a decade ago. The unfair and unequal situation that affects, of course, also the interim professor. So, in some communities, the temporary staff charges the same supplements as the official staff — like the sexians — while in others not. Or the case of summer months' remuneration, still pending in this territory. Is this an accomplished government with its employees in public education? Nothing further from reality! And the bottom line is why are the cuts kept? Don't they insist from the People's Party Government that we're on the path to recovery? Why does he then keep these cuts paid for the teaching staff in English? Why don't you sit down and negotiate? Shouldn't the professor who is dependent on the Council of Education of the Galician Councillor treat him at least as equal to the professor of the rest of the state? Or does the cocoa recovery only serve to give great headlines but not to repay with dignity the workers and workers of the Greek education, who are the ones who keep quality in the classroom? From En Marea we consider the compensation and restitution of the rights of all employees and employees in the public sector, and of course also of all teachers in Galicia. It is urgent that you advance in wage improvement, at most at a time like the current one, where other civil servants are getting substantial improvements in their working conditions by equalizing the salaries of the state-wide professionals. We must also defend the working rights of the German teachers. That would be to talk about recovery; that would be to talk about commitment to quality; that would be to talk about commitment to teaching. And that, of course, requires social dialogue. They take back the path of dialogue, speak and sit and negotiate with social agents to work on a plan to recover the rights of teachers. They've got thousands of firms on the table collected by the main teachers' unions in Greek claiming what's theirs. They have the obligation, but also the responsibility, to listen to them. It's fair, and, of course, it would be consistent with that recovery with which you fill your mouth every day. If in the years of crisis it was the employees and the public employees who had to suffer enormous cuts, it's time they start to give them back everything they took from them, time they give us back everything they took from us. For all this, we present this non-law proposal, because we consider it urgent to move forward in the wage improvement of the teachers and teachers in Greece. Retrieve the path of dialogue to return at least to the sixth place ahead of the salary table we talked about earlier. And, of course, it's urgent to sit down and talk about the recovery for Galician teachers and teachers of wages that were cut during the crisis. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u125	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. And good morning also to the trade union organizations that are sitting on the guest bench. We agree with the proposal that the Parliamentary Group of En Marea is bringing today. We fully agreed with the need for the German teacher — and so we also transferred him to the trade union organizations we met in the last few weeks — to recover those wage rights that were stolen during the years of the economic crisis. Using parapet and excuse precisely that crisis, they were presented in the rhetoric at that time these wage cuts and also other working rights of the teacher as a conjunctural thing, as something temporary, not provoked or obliged — and I open quotes — "by a situation, by a very specific and very determined economic context", but the fact is that in the face of that propaganda speech, permanent and constant economic recovery, what we see is that neither do they recover those rights, nor pay and labor rights, stolen during the years of the crisis. In that sense, we have formulated an amendment — we are also trying to reach an agreement with the proposed group — to include precisely the need for a negotiating table to be opened here in Galicia. We must remind the Government of the People's Party that it has exclusive competence in the field of education and therefore sufficient capacity to reverse — I insist — those wage rights that were stolen during the years of the crisis, but above all — and in that sense the amendment submitted by the BNG — we have put a lot of focus, we have opened the focus to the recovery of all those labour rights that were stolen from the Greek teacher during the economic crisis; rights that we could also make extensible to other services, to other fundamental rights of our country, such as health or others that were spoken of precisely on the full-day of yesterday. For us, we have to recover that purchasing power, we have to recover the stolen wages, but it is also a fundamental and indisputable question of the recovery of the educational days, of the teaching hours, which were expanded during the economic crisis, to recover those 18 hours in high school, in vocational training, in official language schools, and those 21 hours of educational days in children and in primary schools. Reduce ratios — it's one of the most frequently discussed issues in the Education Commission as well as in this plenary session — to account for precisely all that repeater student needs specific attention, greater attention and more personalized attention, precisely because, if someone repeats course, it's because he needs more vague attention, more often; to reduce those ratios. Increase resources for attention to special educational needs, both the hearing and language teacher and PT, as well as counselling staff in centers. Reduce that bureaucratic burden and recover what is the main function of the teaching teams, which is precisely teaching, that teaching function and not that they became almost administrative. Also address, because representatives of the interim staff, the interim professor, a stability agreement, making these public offers of broad employment compatible, but also ensuring that people who have spent many years, more than a decade working in public education in this country can continue with that work. To also decrease, of course, as I said, to reverse more effectively, as I said, all those rights — I insist — that were stolen during the years of the pay crisis, in the matter of pay, of purchasing power, but of course also in the matter of labour rights — I insist — for the teacher, but it is an extensive debate also in other areas of the public sector in our country. And, already to finish and hoping to get to a transaction with the proposed group and waiting for what the majority party will tell us, that after all that absolute majority has the key in this question, I also wanted to leave a reflection on the table. If the recovery of the labor rights that have been stolen from the civil servants of the public services, but also from our country's working class as a whole during the years of the crisis, happens because we obviously defend those rights within this House, from the House of Representatives of the Greek people, but also because it makes use of the power that the working class has through the tools of struggle of those who have, add forces in front of this regression that we are living and make real and effective one of the main tools to fight the recovery of rights that the workers and workers have, which is with a general strike. I leave that reflection here too on the table. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u127	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, too, to the teachers who accompany us. I don't know what the People's Party is going to say, but I suppose you're going to say that the faculty of the Autonomous Community is the best we have in the education of this autonomous community, that's for sure. I don't know if it's best for families, it's best for students, it's best for equipment. Of course, I'm a fundamental, vital part of the system, and there's no country that works without a teacher. Having said this, of course, our parliamentary group will support this non-Mean law proposal. It's going to support it because it's common sense. It's common sense for the professor to recover his pay conditions, also his working conditions. There—I told the Counsellor two weeks ago—a cry among all the professor's representatives that the time has come to demand what is fair, to recover part of what has never been lost. And I know what the People's Party is going to say about this, I know, too, I know, I know. If you will, Mr. Fernández Gil, I continue for you, I make your intervention and then gladly invite me to a coffee and let it be so resolved. [[Murmurs.]] But look, the reality is that the People's Party is responsible in this autonomous community for applying measures to change the conditions of the professor in character before that in 2012 the state was in that containment of public expenditure, in which we officials, in this case also teachers, have, probably more than anyone, contributed to solving a crisis that we obviously had not provoked. But he said that the People's Party, on a previous basis — and there's no more to go to the hemerothecas and to the official newspapers — has increased its hours to this professorate of this autonomous community, to this collective, with that maximum that I always say it's fuzzy that they do less. But today we remember the rule of the signs of multiplication and division: + x - = -, always, + x - = -. In logic, something like that also works. You, the People's Party, have made that reduction of teachers that this autonomous community has gone from being second in the student/teacher ratio in 2008-2009 to being in the seventh place in the 2016-2017 course, despite the reduction of students. Let's imagine what really has to be the reduction of teachers so that the ratio, despite the decrease in the number of students, would increase. It's a really alarming thing, it's a really sad thing, it's something you don't hold back, except when you trust that the results of that teacher's work to which you've been cut pay and rights are still not the same, but perhaps more, because it's the ones who actually come to keep the fleet with their work the results of this autonomous community in the educational world. Of course, not the remuneration paid to them by the Galician Union, and of course, mimalos, protect them under their working conditions. Reference was made here to the student's ratio, reference was made to the actual increment of students in class when they didn't count the repeaters, who became -- I don't like the joke, but it's almost forced -- like a kind of ether, a steam that pushes through the classes, because they don't count, they don't care, they don't need, as already said here, a specific additional attention. And, therefore, our parliamentary group and I also trust that we are also able to reach a transaction that still remains the position — I believe — of the whole opposition of this House and I would also like to say that of the People's Party, because in the end the only thing being asked of the Government is that he feels like talking to the teachers' representatives. It is not established — and I believe that we are going to come to a transaction — any position a priori to tell the Government that it negotiates until that purpose, but that it feels like negotiating. If we get to the transaction, I think the People's Party would join in to the fact that the Government which it supports negotiates with the representatives of any collective, in this case of the teaching group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u128	Thank you. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u129	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, too, to the union organizations that accompany us. First of all, Mr. Álvarez, obviously I won't let him down, I won't let him down, and I have to start by making a reference, of course, to the importance and the work and effort that the teachers in Galicia have made to achieve an educational system like what we have today in Galicia, which in all indicators is quite well valued. But I say more, I'm going to make a little variation, because I also made some reference to Mrs. Chao about this, and, Mrs. Chao, even the professors of religion. We do not establish differentiations depending on the matter that a teacher imparts about what his reality is, what his rights are, or what his effort is or what his work is. We understand that all the professionals in the Italian education do a decent job and an effort to maintain the system with the quality it has. [[Applause]] The truth is, I'm not coming out of my surprise. We were used to the fact that in Marea throughout this legislation it is permanently questioning the role played by the other political parties in Galicia, because they are the only ones who represent the voice of the social majority. That's what we're hearing over and over again. But now — and the surprise here — in a chimball worthy of Nadia Comaneci himself, they now not only question the work of political parties, but suddenly question the work of trade unions as well. Because you come here today precisely by the role and work of the unions. And yes, don't signal, Mr. Lake, because look, I'm not telling you, I'm not telling you, I'm talking about the amendments of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block. Because, Mrs Chao, you here have talked about negotiation, why don't you sit down and negotiate, but do you see the literal content of your proposal not of law? Because the agreements of your non-law proposal do not speak at all of opening negotiations or sitting down to negotiate. It's more, they don't even mention unions. Here it says, textually: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to: firstly, to equate the salary of teachers and teachers in Greece with the salaries of teachers and teachers better paid from the rest of the state. And secondly, to restore to the teachers and teachers of Greece the wages that were cut from them during the crisis." Not a single reference to negotiating tables and the role of trade unions. And I'm telling you, I'm not just telling you; I'm telling you, the Socialist Group and the Galician Nationalist Block in their amendments. But look, if we get into the text, because at the end of the day, what we're talking about is the literality of the non-law proposition text, you say: "Equire the salaries of the teachers and the teachers in Greece to the wages of the state's best-paid teachers." That's right, you see any reference to any kind of economic indicator or other autonomous communities. Everything doesn't matter to you. Well, let's put it to him: we go up the salary where? Even the best. I mean, we're not going to compare what the economic reality of an autonomous community is, what the other one is, not here! Well, look, we could get there, you could get the Galego Nationalist Block later and say, no, I on En Marea's proposal I'll blow it one; the Socialist Group then, on the proposal of En Marea and the Block: I'll blow it two; and I get here like a champion and say: for I go up three more, and convert this into a poker game. Do you understand why you're not serious about the proposal you bring here? What we stand for — and so did the other groups in their amendments — is that it is obviously necessary to negotiate, and for that there are some interlocutors, who are the unions. And I'm telling you one thing: Loss of care, don't worry, that the Greek Government has enough commitment and knows perfectly when to sit down and negotiate with the unions and you know perfectly well that within these negotiations there are spaces for agreements, but of course, what we're not going to be here playing a poker game of political groups to see who's best in front of the unions or who's better in front of the teachers' collective. Because look, at the end of this, if you allow me to go to popular wisdom, you have the permanent obsession with doing what they say in my village, which is to show people that you are the ones who put your ass on the cherry. And look, the cherrys don't have to wear their tail, the cherrys already bring it when they're hanging from the tree, you know? It's just that we're here over and over again, truly, with the same story, and we're tired, really tired. You have the representation of the social majority, you are above the roles of trade unions, negotiating tables, you are omnipresent and omnipotent in Galicia. But the curious thing about this is that in the end, when the Greeks have to think about where each one should be, you place them where they belong. [[Applause]] But, I say, to go to the end, because I think it's a matter that is meridianly clear, look, we defend social dialogue. We defend and we know that from social dialogue, from serious dialogue with trade union organizations — and we are also aware that such dialogue exists, will exist and will continue — there is room for agreement within that dialogue — and I mean them directly — and we know that this is the formula for carrying out these issues. I mean, we understand that for something is the Sectoral Bureau of Education. We have the context and we have the tools to find agreements and reach those agreements. We are aware — I said before — of the efforts made by the Greek teacher precisely by the situation arising from the crisis. And that's why -- and I'm done with this -- I'm telling you and I assure you that within this negotiation scenario there will be a framework and there will be a capacity to reach agreements. Let us hope that at the time when the formula is sought and agreements are reached In Marea will be on the side supporting those agreements and that they are not exactly, as they do in other sectors, breaking up trade unions and administration agreements. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u130	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Now we greet the fifth and sixth primary students, and the first and second ESO students from the Virge da Luz de Portomarín multilingual centre in Lugo, as well as their teachers. Welcome to Parliament. The author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs Chao, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u131	Thank you, President. Thank you also to the opposition groups for showing their support and their willingness to come to a transaction, since we agree essentially, in the need to regain the path of the dialogue for the restitution of the teachers' rights. And as it seems that the People's Party is also in favour, we imagine they'll vote for the deal we're going to get to. And I go to the literality of the text so that they know it and of course think about it — that we are sure, after hearing it, Mr. Fernández Gil, that they will vote in favour of it. Because, look, the transaction says, "The Parliament calls on the Galician Council to open a dialogue table with the teaching trade union organizations to move forward in a wage agreement and recovery of labour rights and wage losses caused in recent years." We therefore count on your vote in favour, we imagine. Because he won't be withdrawing afterwards. Since you liked dialogue so much, see if when we talk about dialogue they also vote against it. If you vote that no, I also tell you: no surprise. As we have said on numerous occasions in this House, cuts, of course, are not neutral. They are a fruit of concrete political decisions and talk a lot about you. In this sense, the educational cuts in the public while reinforcing the concerted are a clear, clear example of a concrete ideological position on the part of the People's Party, although they try to hide it, and they practice everywhere, here and in the state, of course. They are the two sides of the same coin, from the undervalue of public education while constantly reinforcing the concerted process. This is the only way to understand the state's general budgets that have just been presented, where not only do they recover educational investment but they will reduce it to a historical record figure of 3.7% of GDP; this is a figure that has not been so low since 1992. It's to be proud, of course. It's a long way from the European Union's average, and a long way from the farthest countries as can be Finland. And, of course, here — students who are always ahead of austerity — according to their government's own forecasts, the investment in education this year is going to fall below 3.59%, a figure that leaves us below the average of the Spanish state, although it is already fifth in the queue of all Europe. Of course, so then they don't give the numbers to pay the teachers what they owe them. Because that's the People's Party specialty, matching numbers but leaving people out. With these numbers, with their repeated refusals to regain the teachers' rights and reverse almost a decade of cuts, the People's Party continues to demonstrate that education is neither and will never be one of their priorities. Not the public, at least, because, of course, the crisis and recovery go through neighborhoods. So much so that in the last five courses Xunta held 243 new units in concerted education, while in the public it closed 59 schools and 441 units were deleted; constant privatization, without rest. From Marea we will continue to say no, we will continue to defend, of course, the urgency of recovering stolen wages, the urgency of recovering all the rights of the teaching staff who took them away. And one thing is clear: from the ranks of the People's Party they can continue to ignore all and each of the proposals that make the opposition, which they will not be able to continue to ignore indefinitely is the unanimous demand of the educational community asking them to return what they took from it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. I understand that transaction is about the two amendments. [[Assentment.]] Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de la Concepción Burgo López and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the impulse of the Galician Union of a pact by the Galician language and the actions to be carried out in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u133	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. At the beginning of this morning we witnessed what we said, what we've always seen keeping about the Government of the People's Party around our language: that they don't want to see the problems, that they don't want to see the problems, because they know perfectly that much of the problems in our language respond to their linguistic policy, absolutely wrong. [[Applause]] And a lot has been said about a report I have here, language and society, of the Royal Galician Academy. And I'll talk about it again. But to focus on the problem of what the report says, I want to read textually a few paragraphs of the introduction, of how the Royal Academy justifies this report. And he says, "Our professional ethics, on the line of continuous action of the Royal Gallega Academy, how much entity legally responsible for the defence and illustration of the Greek language, compels us to launch the alert voice, a voice that wants to be encouraging but that cannot fail to be expressed in tone of alarm. We can't help but mark the risks that our language carries. Since then, we feel compelled to appeal to the whole of society to ensure a future that recognizes the difficulties of the present and overcomes the mistakes of the past. But above all, there is a need for genuine commitment, effective action and more ambitious initiatives by the Government." This is what the Royal Galaga Academy really says. But not only do you say this to the Royal Galaga Academy, because for a few years, many language-related organizations have been alerting you to the disturbing situation that is living in Galicia. The Council of Europe, through the report of the experts of the Charter of Regional and Minority Languages, in the last report — by all means, very negative on Greek — called for the failure of the Board to meet many of the commitments made and expressed its concern at the reduction in the use of language in all areas, from school to government, through the media. The Galega Culture Council recently presented a report on the language practices and attitudes of youth, and alerted to the importance of the descent of speakers in English, within youth, to the future of our language. It also alerts the Council for Culture. The Royal Galega Academy, in this study of what we were talking about, warns with concern — and I quote textually — of the "growing rupture of intergenerational transmission and of the miniminating uses of Greek by the younger people, especially in urban and peri-urban areas. Existing statistical and sociological data indicate that younger generations are already playing a single language process in Spanish at a pace that does not foresee the results of previous demolition studies." This is worrisome and is being said by all the organisms related to language, because there is indeed a very serious fall of speakers in Greek. The truth is, it's the language, of the officials in Spain, who most speakers lose. And that's reflected in all the statistics. You will say, as Mr. President said, that there are very good statistics of the subjective perception of those who understand it, of those who say that they can speak and say that they can write it down. It's true, it's true that it's grown. Of course, it's just that the Greek has been in compulsory education for many years. And unfortunately, they're dying and they can't answer all those generations that they didn't read anymore and, above all, they didn't write in Greek because they didn't have any academic education in Greek. But you all know that a language isn't just an academic use of language, a language that doesn't speak, it doesn't exist, a language that doesn't speak is directed to death. Latin isn't dead because I gave him a heart attack all of a sudden. He's dead because, of course, although there's still a lot of people who read it and write it, they don't talk about it, they don't talk about it. [[Applause]] The moment the Latin stopped talking, he died. I do not say that the Greek is, of course, in the same situation, but there are indeed worrying elements. And what's more worrying is that the Government, which has the statutory obligation and the moral obligation to keep and promote linguistic normalization, is so quiet, because nothing happens, because nothing happens, because we're living in the best possible worlds. Look, all the bodies I've named before, all of them, the experts of the Charter, the Council of Culture, the Royal Academy, affirm and demonstrate that a fundamental part of the problem that is suffering our language stems from the application of Decree 79/2010, of the so-called "Decree of Plurilingualism", all of them. I can quote them, the expert report says it's not a receipt, it can't be allowed, that it's a foreign language the Greek in our country. The Royal Galaga Academy says that there is a reversal in the progress made in the past in school, and that the problems of Greek are in secondary socialization, not so much in families. Because it's true what Mrs. Pontón said: many children learn to speak in English and then arrive at school and pass to Spanish. The Council of Culture says taxively — textually — that "one of the factors of disqualification of youth is found in the early stages of education and that it requires a change in the model of teaching, maintaining an offer of education in our language in children's education and in Greek. The Council of Culture says this, not the Socialist Party. Because it is true that the decline in learning of the use of Greek in childhood education is very strong. Seventy-five percent of the city's children's centers don't use it, or practically. But it is in the cities where most of the population lives, Mr. Fernández Gil; therefore, of course it is very important, because we are talking about the largest population in Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But look, all these bodies also say that the Multilingual Decree is also very harmful because it broke the consensus, because it broke the political consensus that existed around the language, which neither — not even by the Fraga governments — was used for partisan purposes, but was used for the first time for partisan purposes by President Feijóo. You know perfectly well that in 2009 President Feijóo decided to pass this decree to win a vote, a vote of associations declared against our language. And to win those votes he broke with consensus. This decree — and I repeat it because we are all very inclined to forget things — is denied, it is not admitted, it has the criticism — and I read, and they are not all — of the Royal Galician Academy, of the Council of Culture, the Galician School Council, the Sectoral Bureau of Education, Confapa, the Consultative Council, the Pedagogic Renovation Movement, of the three universities, of the interuniversity commission of the three universities, of all political parties with representation or without it in this House, of all trade unions, of all cultural associations and of language defence, of professional associations, such as the jurists. There's more, but I don't have time to quote everyone. It's a decree that doesn't want anyone and that's at the center of the breach of political consensus. And to break the consensus is not ballad, gentlemen of the People's Party, because the very institutions I have just spoken of point out in all their reports the importance for our language and for the future of our language of regaining that consensus. The Council of Culture of Greece — I have no time to read its words — and it says to the Royal Gallega Academy, which literally says: "We are again seeking the same consensus that has enabled the adoption of the Standardization Act and the General Standardization Plan." That's what we offer, gentlemen. We offer good faith to join that consensus. And for that you know, you know perfectly well, that the first step is to override this decree, that it has very harmful negative consequences in the language and that it is the most important element of breaking the consensus. We have to stop him, to derogate him, and among all political parties, the educational community and the institutions associated with the language, to agree on a decree that satisfies everyone's aspirations. And from there on, we also develop the General Standardization Plan, which we serve, as it serves, with some shade, the Royal Academy or the Council. There's the center, the center, what we can do for our language. But it's not just going against a PP policy that we don't admit. It is, above all, to seek a positive attitude, an attitude of impulse to our language and linguistic normalization.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u135	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, without this consensus that you have broken, the future of our language is far more difficult than we have had that consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u138	Thank you again, President. Good day to all of you again. I was referring to Mrs Burgo's election campaign, to the breakdown of consensus by the People's Party, and to the absolute electoralist use of the language as a weapon. It was also that reflection — and I think it is one of the most interesting and pending analyses — of an internal power struggle within the People's Party itself. But that will remain for reflection in other spaces. Again in some matters what the proposed group and Mrs Burgo said, there is a proverb — they are sorry not to quote it literally — in the popular tradition that says there are three forms of lies: the lie itself, the half truths and the statistics. And today morning what we've been is witnesses to a new generation of lies by the president of Galician Union, who is to come here saying what he wants, to invent reality, to lie, to manipulate and that reality never spoils his title. [[Applause]] And I'm going to quote textually, because, of course, you take a paragraph from the report and, as if there were no..., I don't know, more than thirty pages of report, reflection, analysis, diagnosis and conclusion... and I'm going to quote literally: "At present, the rupture of intergenerational language transmission of Greek is not a consequence of the decisions of families — primary socialization — but rather comes from aspects related to their lack of presence in secondary socialization, particularly in the school sphere" — page 20—. And I open parentheses with my own addition: in addition to the field of education, the media are an element of secondary socialization that is absolutely fundamental. "Until 2010—page 28—the use of Greek as a vehicle language in teaching has experienced a remarkable advance. If we refer only to recent times, it is with Decree 124/2007 when a higher percentage declared most of them receiving teaching in English. The application of a new decree in 2010 made a reversal in the presence of the Greek language, receding it until the 1990s. Regarding the presence of the Greek in different contexts, and as shown in Figure 24, this means a drop in teaching hours in this language, as well as a lower contact with it in the school context. The application of Decree 79/2010 was a step backwards in all areas analysed. Something is failing when our legal order from the beginning of autonomy envisages moving forward towards a situation of normality of Greek and equality with Spanish and, on the other hand, an increasing part of the Greeks and the Greeks is increasingly under increasing pressure to abandon Greek and adopt Spanish." [[Applause]] Literally, literally... [[Applause]] But he didn't stay there, he didn't stay there, because he's still going further. "I am willing to comply with the General Linguistic Standardization Plan adopted unanimously in this House in 2004. " Welcome! We're going to read what goes on in sector 2 of the family, youth and everything that has to do with the normalization of uses between the younger age groups. Specific, literary measures taken in the General Plan for Linguistic Standardisation (2.1.16): "The report will be evaluated every four years, the degree of evaluation, implementation and development of that General Plan for Linguistic Standardisation in the field of education, in ESO and primary" — that is, among other issues, the decisive part of this proposal. Action 2.1.22 on early childhood education—at that time, preschool, which is virtually nothing left—: "English language, presence in these stages: a minimum of one third of the weekly hours in Welsh". The official data of the Union is located in the populations of more than 50,000 inhabitants — which is where the bulk of the population of this country is concentrated — about 10 percent, throwing it up. Points 2.1.26 and 2.1.27: "At least 50% of the subjects in the Greek language in primary, secondary, Bachelor's degree and vocational training, especially mathematics and technology...", which is exactly what the decree of 2010 barred from the map. We're not going to talk anymore about cinema, music, the media, because language is also journalism, and we also have access to cultural information in the public media in our country. You know this, that this is the most serious of all. It's just that this is the most serious of all! They know what the report of the Royal Academy says, they know what the results of the language policy, or disqualification policy, of this country that you have been applying continuously since 2010. And that's the most serious of all, who do it consciously and knowing the prejudices that it carries. We are going to support this initiative, and so many others that were brought to reassess that consensus. The tending hand of the BNG is absolutely always, always, to work on something that is not a will, is that it is a legal obligation of the German Government, as laid down in the Statute of Autonomy, in the Law of Linguistic Standardization, in the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization, and in the Charter, as it was cited, of linguistic rights in populations like ours, which see their own language minorityized. They go back to the river, because they did good to Fraga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Of course, we fully agree with this initiative. First a diagnosis is needed, the in-depth study of all deficiencies. And secondly, we, from En Marea, have already led to our programme a derogation from the decree of multilingualism. Of course, we can analyze and seize its hard consequences. The greatest consequence of this decree is disqualification. The government of the PP is responsible for the disappearance of childhood classes, from veto to scientific and technical areas — mathematics, physics, technology. With helplessness and neglect, they are also responsible for the quantitative and qualitative degradation of our language. If they're reaching that goal that is to reduce the presence of the Greek in teaching to a third. Well, the message they're giving is clearly that there's a first language and a second language, a language that's useless at all, a language that's secondary. Teaching in Greek is equal to teaching in a foreign language. This can't be, it can't be. With regard to the statements this morning of the president, I am ashamed. Take three points from the report. But we all read that report. I'm gonna pull out other points from the Royal Academy. Since the companions who preceded me gave me a lot of data, I want to complement them so they don't repeat it. First, he insists on the progressive loss of spokespersons, especially among younger people, and on the collapse of intergenerational transmission. In that same report, the Royal Academy urges the Administration to act effectively — and that means it is not acting effectively — to counter the dangerous drift of our language. The Royal Academy also talks about experiences of other communities, and says that these experiences show that, through intelligent action — intelligent — effective and sustainable over time, you can recreate and even reverse the process of a minority language. And ask the Union to act to stop the constant decline of its own language. One more time! In that report, too, you warn yourself that you can not fail to express yourself in a tone of alarm — as it has been said earlier — in view of the petty uses of Greek by younger people. But there's more, there's more. The situation, far from improving, is aggravated by the entry into force of its painful law of education and the consequent modification of the ESO curriculum, and with the hourly burden which is giving rise to a greater, much greater imbalance. Why? Well, we have the ESO student, who curiously has two itineraries. The student who pursues applied teachings, that is, the student who will be drawn prematurely to vocational training, has 31 hours in Spanish and 18 in German. That means 13 hours less in English. While the student who pursues academia, who is the student who is going to go to the bachelor's school and then to the universities, has 21 hours, 10 less than in Spanish. It has to be said — and it must be remembered — that the Constitutional Court in February, that is, two months ago, has just dictated the anti-constitutionality, in a very recent judgment, of several paragraphs of the LOMCE that gather that Spanish is the language of studies. This is very important. Wrong policy, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, wrong and contrary to any standardizing objective. Normalization, of course, is the enemy, or appears to be, of the People's Party, because it is the object of the most intense cuts of its Government. In real terms, these matches were reduced by 92% in nine years. How to miss out after the loss continues talkers! We, what we want to say -- and we're done with this -- are that we don't exist in language, we don't exist in language!, and that we have the right to claim "thousand more spring," we have the right to express ourselves in Greek, to live in Greek, to love in Greek, to study, to listen, to sing, to read and play in Greek. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u142	Thank you, President. Good day to all of you again. There are several questions. This is a debate that is repeated over and over again. And I'm telling you seriously, as I say on many occasions: as much as I insist, they won't be able to create that image that the People's Party is against the defense of language. You continue, you continue to keep that speech, that we will continue to render accounts before citizenship, which is how public policies are evaluated. Because they were talking about the wrong politics. [[Applause]] Home!, you said you were taking in your electoral program the derogation of the decree. Well, look where you put your election program. In our electoral program, we have supported the language policy that has been done for a few years. And look where you put our election program. This is how a public policy — or at least we understand it — is being evaluated, accounting for citizenship and looking out for the interests of citizenship. [[Applause]] Look, there are some questions I'd like to put on the table, because we're talking about the report. Of course, we're accused of doing a partial reading of the report. Home!, it's good as a joke, as a joke it's good, because you come up here and only refer to the part of the report that talks about the decree of plurilingualism, but it's obvious, for example, that the report begins, on page 4, the following: "In recent decades, Galician society has experienced three processes that have altered the sociolinguistic order: deruralization, tertiarization and aging." Not a reference to those three questions that are fundamental to understanding the present reality of our language. But, as it doesn't matter, as it is the product of sociological movements and we can't charge it to the wicked government of the PP, because we put it aside. Look, it's okay! I believe that we must establish the debates with a certain degree of rigour and a certain degree of seriousness. Mrs. Burgo, quoted textually, read textually, the last paragraph of the introduction; she read almost everything, all but one sentence, which I don't know if she accidentally jumped it or was intentionally, but I'm going to read it: "We don't intend to feed a pessimistic discourse about the future of Greek." That phrase, curiously, did not appear in the paragraph reading. No, I say it because it's curious that the rest of the paragraph is read and that phrase is not; to me, at least, it has been significant. Look, in the morning the president gave them a lot of information about the reality that marks the report itself and about the reality of the Greek language. And there's also a question, and that's why I say and I repeat, over and over again, that they won't be able to lay upon us that image that we're against the language. Forget it! Society no longer believes that speech. It's good to keep on repeating it over and over again! Look, I too — since we are repetitive whenever we speak about language — I like to resort to the Kantian categorical imperative to tell them or make them a reproach, which is that we should not be constantly using linguistic discourse as a means to achieve an end, that is, to discredit the policies of the People's Party, but rather that the speech of defense of language is an end in itself, because we — just like you and the whole of Galician society — defend the importance of maintaining our linguistic heritage, our cultural heritage, and to defend and improve the use and socio-linguistic situation of Welsh in society. Of course I do! But they push again and again to find out or try to blame the decree of multilingualism on the socio-linguistic reality of Greek, when, again and again, reality tells them not, and I go to a data only, a data that was mentioned earlier and that was mentioned in the morning as well. How can we complain about the presence of Greek in school when, precisely, in school is where the competences to speak, read and write in a language are acquired and it turns out that the data say that we are at the highest level of competence to speak and write in that language? In addition, in the morning they were given another fact that you didn't want to remember, but the president gave them a very clear fact: he told them about the moment when youth stopped most alarmingly speaking German, and it wasn't with a government of the People's Party. Because, of course, you say here: we break with linguistic consensus. You're lying! What we did was give it back. Because, Mrs. Rodil, yes, you said it in the reference to what is spoken in the report, you clearly sign it. [[Murmurs.]] He says that at the time of the 2007 decree there was a perception in the youth that they were taught mostly in Greek. Where is the balance in the concept mostly in Greek? The balance was resuscitated later, the perception of the problem was there. And here this decree came to restore balance by introducing a third factor — a third element, in this case — which is a third language. But, look, time leaves for me, and it's a matter that there's a lot of data and a lot of references to do, for example, the report. I didn't want to finish without reading another paragraph of the report referring precisely to what they are, precisely, the capacity or tools that give the teaching decrees for the domain, knowledge and use of a language. See, on page 9, the report says: "Most people who speak Spanish alone have the effective ability to speak in English. Potential speakers are perceived as a niche of linguistic intervention. To speak a language you have to have the competence to speak that language, motivation and opportunity to do so. This is the concept of potential speakers and this group is characterized by those people who, having sufficient competence to speak in English, use Spanish. The results indicate that this linguistic profile is increasing very rapidly in recent decades.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I mean, we're talking about a linguistic profile of people who have capacity, tools and ability to use. Why don't you use it? Well, not because there's a decree that regulates languages in teaching, they don't use it because we have to generate spaces for use.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u143	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u144	I'm done, president. We've talked about it on many occasions, we have to generate spaces of use, we have to push the use of the language, we have to prestigious the use of the language; and for all that is what we have to work for together, but we don't have to work again and again to derogate a decree that only does it is to ensure linguistic balance in teaching. [[Murmurs.]] If they want to work for the defense of the language, they'll have us here. Now, if they're engaged solely in the derogation of a decree, there you are with your probing. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u145	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Burgo. Mr. Fernández Gil has a role left. Take him there, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u146	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández Gil, you didn't miss anything that one of your languages and elections, because for something they did the 2009 decree to win the votes of Galicia Bilingue. [[Applause]] And I'm not surprised at anything that an election and a language, because that's what Deputy President Rueda put together when he was at the demonstrations in Galicia Bilingual against the Greek language. There are photos! [[Applause]] There's hemerotheque! [[Applause]] There's the president's hemerothecist saying, "The important thing is that children learn English." [[Applause]] That's where you go, with that there's a future, the important thing isn't Greek. And that's the reality of the PP government in terms of language. That's the electoral union with the language, because that's what you know is reality, and that the rupture of consensus was the result of that desire to win a few votes. I mean, one thing is clear to you, they don't want consensus on language, they don't want any consensus. They don't want to do anything with a decree that -- if you want to repeat it -- everyone in Galicia that's related to language is against, and I quote: Council, Royal Academy and so on. Well, you don't mind the European Council telling them that they're not fulfilling their obligations in the English language either. Well, nothing else, it's clear where we start and where we're going to end. You don't want a process of linguistic normalization, you don't want it. So they have lowered, what reasonable person does you think they want a process of linguistic normalization to be lowered by 73% of the language policy budgets? Fraga had about 22 million—Flow!—you don't get to eight. But see! But who do you want to cheat on with all this? They don't care, it's more, their entire cultural policy is also against Greek. Look, they're still managing language skills, that's very good!, that we don't deny, that they're there, and that of course to write in Greek the first thing to do is to know how to write in Greek. But you know what happens, that the second is to want. Of course, but look where he can write -- it seems, perception -- a lot of people, but they don't write. You know, well, how much did you say? 90% or 100%, but they don't. Don't you think this government has a problem? Don't you think this society has a language problem? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You keep disparaging your tongue, you keep making a few vows, a handful of votes against our language, you keep doing that. And don't worry because there will still be an opposition here and, of course, a Socialist Party that will continue to ask you for answers. And also asking you to take responsibility for our language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia for the declaration of expiry of the San Rafael mining concession (num. 2946) in the district of Touro
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u148	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u149	Mr Rivas has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. I'm going to try to calm down a little bit about the previous initiative that fills my heart. In almost 40 years of normalized professional life of language, when it was a crime, when we were being pursued by using language in the classrooms, we were being guided!, because we were being guided!, and that reality had to be reversed with support policies, with discriminatory policies in favor of, you broke them. [[Applause]] Well, we're leaving, we're going to another drop. [[Murmurs.]] The abandonment of mining activities is a cause of lapse when it is serious and repeated. Law 3/2008, on the management of Galician mining, in article 3 speaks of the sustainable management of mining resources. Article 12 speaks of the harmonization of extractive activity with the rest of the land uses within the framework of land and environmental management. It speaks of the orderly and sustainable use of mine resources in a manner compatible with the protection of the natural environment and cultural heritage. And finally, there is also the criterion of the temporary nature of mining with regard to land management and land use. Since 1988 in the Touro mine there has been — and still remains — a persistent and repeated abandonment of mining activity, leaving the concessionary company the basic operations of exploitation without even taking measures of restoration and prevention, which has been causing serious environmental problems in recent years. This abandonment has never been corrected or penalized by the Mining Administration, although we are faced with the use of a public property subject to concession, which brings together the obligations of exploitation and restoration a plan of work. The mining legislation itself provides that the lack of mining activity leads to the application of an administrative sanctioning scheme, but when it is a serious and repeated infringement of the conditions contained in the grant title, there is a reason for a declaration of expiry of the concession. It is reiterated the jurisprudence that states that "every mining concession leads to a functional nature aimed at a purpose related to the public interest underlying any use of demand, so this kind of administrative concessions in the field of mining are granted so that the concessionaire uses the goods of public domain consonates his destiny, not to keep him in a state of complete abandonment, because that implies not knowing the social function of the goods of nature and the social interest which any mining concession entails." Judgment of the Supreme Court of 30 June 1988. In this case, in the case of the mine we are talking about, abandonment is more serious, because not only has mining been abandoned since 1988, but protection and restoration activities have not been carried out to prevent the deterioration of the mine from having an impact on the environment. I'm going to make an incision here, where are the 300 million pesetas that have stayed there for restoration and you don't know where they're going? Mr. Fernández Albor, I think if he should know something about it, but, well, he never gave up. The concessionary company has not only failed to fulfil the duty of proper use to the destination of the concession, but has caused a decoupling and abandonment of mining land, even in some cases allowing the activity of other companies for purposes other than mining, such as the treatment and collection of third-party waste — and treatment and recovery — which have been causing serious environmental problems for decades, especially in the water resources of the area. During the 14 years of the real phase of exploitation, mining has caused critical environmental changes, with deep cuts, vertical walls, large debris from acid mining drainage materials. An extensive mud raft, in turn, causes continuous water pollution problems and soils because of hyperacid drainages that are continuously poured into the Ulla bowl and underground aquifers. During that time, the Mining Administration did not act as it should comply with its obligations, requiring different concessionaires to carry out corrective measures such as the installation of treatment plants before the continuous generation of emissions with high concentrations of heavy metals, or even applying a sanctioning regime. Even more serious is that now this aggressive mining — from an environmental point of view — without corrective measures, if it allows it to maintain a complete abandonment of activity. You are currently allowing, without communication, or implementation of specific restoration plans, leaving the mine and the surrounding landscape as a barren, almost lunar soil, which continues to see fluids without control, causing serious damage and impact like the environment. Go over there, really, go over there, you'll do them good! It'll do them good to see that shit, it'll do them good. See that purpose will do you good. And he's going to make you think about what measures you have to take now. This country doesn't work, that mine inspection, because if it had been difficult for an abandoned mining operation, about 1988, it wasn't the subject of several previous sanctioning files, and also, at least, the beginning of expiry. This real description of the situation in Touro already gives an idea of the mine inspection services we have, that if they worked, they would already have a previous action that would justify the initiation of expiry by the book, as argued by the chief territorial officer of the board. But I'm going to accuse us of something. I'm going to accuse us of denial of information. We've talked about her a lot of times. I'm going to accuse us of inactivity in the inspection and I'm going to accuse us of intentional leaving of functions, which leads me to ask for the initiation of an expiry file for the Government of the Union, for manifest inactivity, for complicity in environmental crimes. Because if the area, if all of the Ulla's bowl, if all of the Arousa's creek is threatened, as Mr. Director of the Arousa's River Mexillon Denomination the other day recognized, he recognized that up here, up in the Touro miners' bowl, there was a tremendous threat of megaminary, 122 square kilometers. You know what that is? It's once Boimorto Town Hall and 2/3 more from Boimorto Town Hall. That's that extension, that's the concession you're working on that whole conglomerate of companies that we no longer know what they're called. Let's start the process, let's start the process of cessation of activity, of expiry, but also the process of expiry of the Environment and Industry Council. Something's hidden when we don't have records of mining inspections, when it hasn't acted in any way there, and when it's still coming down to the Brandelos River today, interest and interest and interest. Don't laugh, they do. That's right, come over there! It scares, smells, milky liquid, a huge raft of mud that flows out of a rubble, one of the various rubbles that there are, covered by technosols, that wonderful invention out of a university you don't know where, because I don't want it to be from here that wonderful invention that consists of spreading toxic shit, that's right, reasoning it out for all the same god. Actually, it's been a while, it's time to sit down and talk about this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u151	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as every Wednesday at full, one continues to accumulate stocks of knowledge. I'm sorry that the People's Party's Education Voice is not there, because the truth is that you hear them talking about the Kantian categorical imperative... the Kantian categorical imperative said it was materializing when all the individual action was likely to be elevated to universal law. I suppose when they talk about a party that's charged with corruption, they refer to that kind of topic in relation to political action. The truth is, I insist... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u153	To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u154	It's a very relevant matter, because it has a lot to do with the lack of action in the environmental inspection of the Touro mine.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u155	Yes, but there is also Kantian criticism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u156	I also know, President, I appreciate the footnote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u157	Sure, that's why, but let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u158	In any case, the Kantian categorical imperative what you should say is that when there's a real waste dump potentially toxic for thirty years, the Administration would have to do something. That should be a universal law, probably here and in Katanga. So, it's perfectly in the matter, another thing is that he doesn't like you. The other question has to do with the Rozas project, which we know today is going to be 150 million euros. I concluded by saying that there are B budgets in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, because in the budgets in A or in terms of budget allocation — and we no longer say in terms of execution — there are. So here, too, we continue in the Kantian categorical imperative, which is, as far as possible, about trying to bring budgets into line with the reality of the budget and the execution is as far as possible to achieve the political objectives that are proposed. And, indeed, the issue of mining and environmental control is a subject that we have brought here on many occasions, which unfortunately the budgets of the Galician Union show us how interested the Greek Government has been in the subject. The game dedicated to mining was 7 million euros in 2010, and after systematic bass changes was in 2018, after three years with a growth that I always thought was 3.1%, but now it seems to be 4.2%, in any case, the 2018 budget is of only 55% of what was in 2010. That is the case, and we continue in the categorical Kantian imperative yesterday — and we talk about budgets and it is therefore relevant — on the Galician Round of Contractation Platform, the Councillory of Economics, Employment and Industry made a plea for a service to carry out an advertising campaign: EUR 1,900.000. 50 percent of mining in the budgets of the Galician Union. But there's more. Not only did it exhaust the existing budgetary departure, which is 09.10.731A.640.1, but there was also a budgetary change to increase it; a game that theoretically was for sectoral promotion, studies and projects of the Council. So this game is known, so there's got to be a budgetary change to spend it on advertising campaigns. Now we understand perfectly — and this is where I wanted to get, although perhaps I've been around — why in this country you can hide the real dramatic rubble that exists in the Toro-O Pino mines. That's right, buying silence or invisibility. The administrative inaction and the absolute disappearance of any interests in terms of public, private and medium- pension media, of course in the case of the public, I am a little more surprised; but good. And, above all, I am surprised that in Galicia's 2015-2020 Strategic Plan — since yesterday's advisor in the field with absolute rigour — one of the objectives of the competitiveness of the mining sector says as one of the main lines of action: recovery of the spaces affected by abandoned miners' work, recovery actions and security of miners' work. One of the two priority lines on mining issues in the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan. In the quality part of the waters it says: close a consistent waste treatment model and a leading water cycle model in Europe. I insist, not the invention, it's not Kantian, it's printed paper and, therefore, that's what we're talking about. We are talking about absolute shame and therefore this is why we are presenting an amendment in which what we are asking for is a specific monitoring plan, immediately on that area, which is an area that is absolutely unsustainable and in which, of course, a mining activity on an environmentally unsolved situation is going to be carried out; therefore, the potential — let us say — of increasing environmental problems is there, and of course, we have asked for what we have always seen in connection with mining: to comply with the law. In the law of 2008, Law 3/2008 stated that within one year a sectoral plan of extractive activities of Galicia was to be submitted. They go over ten years and there's no sectoral plan, I suppose, because the funds that the Council had to devote to studies and projects are dedicated to advertising and propaganda. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u159	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u160	Good morning. We're going to support the non-law proposal that Mini presents, the BNG today. I wanted to tell you — I told Mini that the mining inspection does not work — that the mining inspection does work, but it works for companies. The inspection of the People's Party works against the people who will defend the environment, who are the inspected ones. And it smells a lot, many days it smells like shit going on there, but it smells more of the popular party's action in connection with all these companies or, at least, showing a worrying passivity and proven by judicial judgements, demonstrated by statements by the Ombudsman, the People's Valedora, the Prosecutor's Office, etc. It smells very much like the performance of a government that for years has tolerated pollution, the enormous contamination of the streams and the failure to comply with the obligation to restore and preserve the environment. [[Applause]] But there are a lot of people who know the story, the corruption story of the People's Party, as leaders of the German Government were eating every year with the businessman who breached the obligations to restore that company, including President Feijóo, who was going to eat with that model businessman who received 300 million euros to conserve and restore the abandoned mine in 1988, and who filled the perimeter channel that had to collect the waters with acid drainages, poured them to the streams, emboldened that and signed an urban agreement with the mayor of the People's Party, who is still there, where they were allowed to build 4,000 dwellings generously to give to Touro's neighborhood a golf course, which was one of the main needs of Touro's people. What a shame, what a shame, People's Party! so that later they say the People's Party doesn't have a history of corruption behind it; we know it, we know it in many of the municipalities of this country how you work, and that's what's behind it. That's what the prosecutor's office says you do in San Finx, looking somewhere else when they've been polluting the streams for decades. That's what he has behind when "the Ombudsman of the People echoes the Council of Galicia for the environmental risks of the abandoned Touro mine," when the Ombudsman of the People criticizes the passiveness of the Union in the squares and questions the management of the economic and environmental councils. That's what happens when you deny information to people who want to defend the country, and that's what you don't come here to explain. Come here and explain how you tolerate all this that's happening and how you work for these companies like Atalaya Mining, which have a past as well. The company has a past in Andalusia, has a past in other countries of destruction and non-compliance with legislation. In Andalusia, at least, the Andalusian Board did something, imposed sanctions on this company for serious infringements. By the way, failure to keep rafts, which are very similar in size and content to which there may be here if the project is approved. They are seriously failing to meet their obligations and can cause damage that multiplies for ten times what has happened in Aznalcollar and which has also cost a lot of public money. That's the model you want for this country, so they've passed a law of predation that, far from demanding more rigor and more environmental control, gives these companies more ease, these companies who want to come to scrape our materials in twelve or fourteen years and run away here leaving a serious mortgage. Those are the people you're defending, and they don't come here to give explanations because in all these cases I'm quoting them repeatedly you've looked elsewhere and because the members of the General Directorate of Energy and Mines, such as Mr. Tahoces, are evaluating the environment managers, who looked elsewhere on these issues. They explain, correct, and impose political responsibilities on those who have tolerated pollution, undo, and have to pay with public money for the loss of these companies. Come here and shut my mouth and tell me how many sanctioning files have been brought into the Touro company for years and years of acid drainage in the streams. Not one, not one. They only acted this year following the complaints of citizens and the neighborhood of Touro. Come here and tell us that the sanctioner's file was brought to the company that contaminated the girl's river in the San Finx mines. Not a sanctioner file, and that recognized the company that was polluting the streams for decades. And do you know who was sanctioned or who was reported? The person who went to take the samples there to prove the contamination of that company. Not an official was sent there to take action in the regattas, he had to go to a person who was denounced by this company that you were protecting. So, stop reading, stop diverting your attention and say here why over all these years you've been conviving with these companies. What interests do you have in these companies to defend them and look elsewhere? What interests and prejudices do you get from this performance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u161	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u162	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Losada: "Two high ZP charges charged in the case of the Socialist Party of Valencia." But let's see, is that you, really, allow me, because I think that to get out here say what you say or some fellow will also have to come with the clean backpack. And you're still busy when you say we're not all the same. Don't you realize that there are people in all the parties who do what they shouldn't? And why do you mean one party is good and another bad? Hey! Don't you know what's going on in the Andalucian courts these days? It just sounds like a lie. But what lessons do we learn? Please! Ladies and gentlemen, chapter 25 of the series not to my Touro-Pino. Mr. Sánchez, I see you, really, very angry, took away Mr. Casal's theme, you see that Mr. Casal didn't defend you with enough vehemence to bring you here. Mr Rivas, the expiry of miners' rights must respond to the requirement set out in Title VII of Law 22/1973, of the 21st of July, of mines, and so far no circumstance has occurred that justifies it. The concessional title covers the exploitation of copper and arid, i.e., the same and the only concessional title has been expanded at the time to dry resources, formally paralyzing the exploitation of copper. Therefore, a concession cannot be expired where the project of exploitation and work plans corresponding to arids are being carried out perfectly. Because, I repeat, it's a single mining right, a single grant for two resources, so it's not applicable what you ask for. If the conditions were met, I do not doubt that this government would do so, and in that sense I want to remind you that the government of President Feijóo has declared the expiry of nearly 100 miners. By the way, only four in the years 2006 to 2008. I think with this I'm telling you, it would be enough for you to withdraw the non-law proposition. Mr. Rivas, are you angry or upset with your co-chairman Mrs. Montse Prado? I'm telling you because when he ruled the Nationalist Block Galego, being the delegate of Industry in Pontevedra and therefore having you the Industry Council in the Bipartisan Government, they granted 100 research permits and authorized forty-three projects of exploitation. Were they all good and positive projects, or did they have to grant them to comply with the law? And I would also ask if Mrs. Prado — I don't know if she's upset or not with you — doesn't say, "Hey, comrade Mini, when you're going to hit the government and oppose all mining projects, she has a little caution, because when we rule, and I'm a delegate of Industry, I signed a minimum of fifteen resolutions between 2005 and 2007, authorizing four research concessions and eleven exploitation; 45% of the operating resolutions were for metals, two for gold in the Snows and Salvaterra, which we suppose would not pour any liquid to the river, and three for materials in section C. Mr. Rivas, you missed again a wonderful opportunity to bring to this Parliament the copies of the files you opened to this company, why didn't you rule? Why didn't you do everything you said here? I mean, where are those copies, the requirements, the sanctions, the obligations they made him to restore the land affected, etc., etc.Is that what you're talking about? Why didn't you bring them? Maybe none of this exists? Can you say why? Actually, tell me why when you guys ruled for four years they didn't, or I have to think you're an accomplice to environmental pollution. With all due respect and consideration that you know I have, stop doing demagogy, stop fooling people and no longer use that double rod of measurement. You are in a political battle, but among you, between the left, and not precisely to defend the public interest of the neighbors of Touro and O Pino, no, you are to see who manifests himself more forcefully to the mining project. They're asking for the law to be breached again. Mr Rivas, why do you make it clear — and the other groups — that there has been an agreement?, because the People's Party has not put itself on a profile, has brought a proposal that is not a very clear law, which I will read to you: "First, to evaluate the consequences and circumstances of the San Rafael mining project, located in the Town Councils of Touro and O Pino, from the total legal guarantee and the rigour in the execution of the procedure, so that the total is saved in relation to the outline, the strict legal and effective compliance and is provided with all environmental and technical urban guarantees, in case it is approved. Two, which ensure compliance with the work plan and monitoring of any environmental impact that could occur as a result of the current results of mining." Why did they vote against, why, why do they vote against the tide of Podemos? Because they don't care. You want jealousy, and, of course, you forget that you ruled. See, the exploitation project — and finished — the restoration plan and the environmental impact study — currently in processing — are available to the public on the Council website, all documentation of the processing file is available to anyone who wants to consult it. I told you yesterday, some are in digital format and some — by volume — must be consulted by the boss.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u163	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u164	It's over. The administrative processing of this project and therefore its approval, or not, as has been done with other projects, will always be linked to the fulfilment of the required urban, environmental and technical guarantees. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u165	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Blanco Paradelo, you can bring here all the corruption reasonings of other parties you want, to me what I'm interested in is the Touro mine at the moment and its threat, and you didn't mean it at all. Not at all! [[Applause]] Not at all! You spoke of the arids, of course, wonderful arids, that's the excuse. Here they told him about convictions and I didn't want to go in there, but if I can come in, I can come in from what I assumed as a recruiting office: I come from a guy, and then if you came in. No, no, that's not it, because that's part of the systematic corruption of the People's Party in the rural, systematic and time-containing environment before the People's Party. Because this is the reality. [[Applause]] Before the People's Party you were already a People's Party, and we understand each other, right? For good understandings. You know all of them, you also know that that mine concession more the surface was offered — when it was abandoned by Riotinto — to whoever you wanted, to the Town Hall of Touro that said none, because I fell on a petate of care. There was restoration, there was to continue the mining activity; it was not followed, it was not followed and you are guilty of so many years of government on this board from the beginning. Three and a half children and they threw us out... [[Murmurs.]] And be angry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u167	It's okay. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u168	I know, PP gentlemen, that the world started with the Bipartite. I know, of course. Look, if we could rule only one third of what you've ruled, this country would be drinking. [[Applause]] Yes, yes. Among other things, our current accounts wouldn't be boisterous as some of you are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u169	Mr. Rivas, that's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u170	It's a talk, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u171	Yeah, well. But if you can remove it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u172	Yeah, I'll take it back, don't worry. Total is already said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u173	He's retired. Quiet, please, Mr. Rivas is speaking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u174	Mr. Blanco Paradelo, here's what it's all about to see if we have a little common sense...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u175	Mr. Losada and Mr. Trenor, respect who is in use of the word. The crossfire in this case does not matter, interests who is in the use of the word. I have to protect this lord, which is in the use of the word. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u176	Let's see, what we're talking about is whether or not Touro's megaminery is a real threat to all the population in the course and the Ulla river basin: yes or no. And objectively it is. Second, if there were no responsibilities and functions left for the Galician board all that time, I would have been who I was, if there were. There's an inception of an expiry file, yes, it does, point, nothing else, point. I agree with that, there is room, and leave the arid excuse, that the arids already see well in Baamonde, part of my tribe, what they give of themselves in a bus; those arids, sulfur, sulphur, copper and iron, mixed react and are still reacting. See.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u177	About the amendment. Don't you accept the amendment? Thank you. You didn't accept the amendment. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the convening by the Government of Galicia, as soon as possible, of the Commission to follow up the cooperation agreement for the joint development of the metropolitan transport of Galicia in the Vigo Metropolitan Area, and the inclusion on its agenda of the request of the Gondomar Council for its incorporation into that type of transport.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u178	You have the word Mr. Bara
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u179	Thank you, President. This initiative deals with the metropolitan transport of the area of Vigo, also about the metropolitan area itself and the concrete case of the Gondomar Town Hall. The truth is that transport is an absolutely fundamental and central element to build the Vigo metropolitan area, and the problem is that this area was literally dynamite, literally dynamite, by the board and by the Town Hall. It was dynamite by Feijóo and by Caballero, the same parts. They are responsible, yes, yes, they are both responsible for this decision. The truth is it's a very bad example, because it took a lot of time, a lot of work to carry it forward, put the metropolitan area in motion, and it was torn — literally — by the board and the Vigo Town Hall in a few months, for purely party interests. Because they live comfortably installed both institutions in confrontation and in permanent litigation. It seems to them to be doing well and they don't care that these decisions harm thousands of people, because they're actually harming more than 460,000 people living in the Vigo area, who can't access common services, equipment and infrastructure that could be developed through the metropolitan area. And this incapacity for the agreement of the Board and the Town Hall, for both the PP and the PSOE, is not restricted exclusively to the transport of the metropolitan area, but is also leading to disagreements, paralysis and delays in many other projects that are vital to the Vigo area. We are talking, for example, about the case of the supply of drinking water, about the investments needed to improve the infrastructure, which must be shared by different administrations. We see it, too, in a matter that comes to the absolute spooky and ridiculous, as is the case of the candidacy of the Cyes Islands or the park of the Atlantic Islands. Everyone defends — as not! — a version for the heritage of mankind, but they can't even agree on it. It's incredible, really, already the level of infantilism at which they come, sometimes, in their debates, in their struggles and in their disputes. The theme of the sea campus or intermodal station was also paralysed and postponed by this confrontation, like the urbanization of access to Vigo from AP-9. And really, the most serious fight, which has the most harmful consequences for people, is the one that has to do with the area itself and the metropolitan transport itself. It is the main example of lack of cooperation and institutional cooperation between administrations. That's why we can say, with all property, that Fexóo and Caballero are the landowners of the Metropolitan Area, who died -- or was killed, better said -- a few months after they were born. It was born in July 2016, and in January 2017, six months later, it is finished by this confrontation between the two administrations, between the Mayor of Vigo and the President of the Board. And what is the cause of this outcome? Because the cause of the defeat is a discrepancy with regard to the implementation of the metropolitan transport agreement, because the Vigo Council defends a different criterion with regard to the benefits for people in the area of transport use in Vigo. He says that these benefits have to be exclusive to the people of Vigo and they can't apply to all the people in the metropolitan area. But really this could be solved — and so the agreement is expected — through the way of the litigation-administrative, and, instead of going to this route, what the Galician Union did — in an attitude also of absolute institutional weakness, because they are using the Administration to oppose the Vigo Council — was to challenge, to go, to paralyse and to leave the Metropolitan Area without effect. And the Vigo Council, on the other hand, what it does is to denounce the transport agreement, also in practice to get out of that agreement, when there could be dialogued, consensused and agreed solutions, which, although they had left without effect a part of the agreement, at least allowed people to benefit from the other side, both the people of the surrounding area and Vigo's own citizenship, which in this case is outside the metropolitan transport agreement. BNG therefore calls upon this agreement, this cooperation, and we believe that it is not enough to send a letter in this way of cooperation, as recently did the Infrastructure and Vivenda advisor, who sent a letter to the Vigo Council offering dialogue and cooperation. Well, a letter is fine, less gives a stone. That's what you were asked to do at the meeting of the Follow-up Committee on the Metropolitan Transport Plan, but more steps must be taken to try to reach agreements. The solution also happens because the Vigo Town Hall abandons this absolutely closed position of confrontation, not only with the Union, but also with the municipalities of its area. Vigo cannot build from back to back to Mos, the Roundup, the Nigrán, Gondomar, the Cangas or the Moaña. Vigo must be built in cooperation and institutional, political and social dialogue with all these municipalities. And Vigo has the leadership he has, he has the economic and social power he has also thanks to thousands of people in his area going to Vigo to buy, they're going to Vigo to manage, they're going to Vigo, they're going to work, and that's also Vigo's vitality, power and strength. Therefore, it is very bad example that a mayor of Vigo confronts, confronts and insults and despises the neighborhood of his neighbours. And in the midst of this monumental struggle, which I say, is a very bad institutional example, because if you can win elections, you can have most absolutes, but you can't dismiss whoever you're around, you can't overlook your neighborhood, because your city, your county, lives also in this neighborhood, in the midst of this confrontation, remains as a collateral victim the Gondomar Town Hall, which is being banned from its entry into the Metropolitan Area or in the convention of metropolitan transport for this institutional confrontation. The Gondomar Council is true that it did not ask for entry into the transport agreement at the beginning of 2015, but asked for it later in 2016. There is a full agreement of the Town Hall to request entry into the Metropolitan Transport Convention of the Vigo Area, and it turns out that on two occasions the commission to follow up this convention was met and the door to the Gondomar Town Hall was closed. And the problem is not that if you shut the door to Gondomar Town Hall, the problem is that 16,000 people who are deprived of the benefits and advantages of using the metropolitan transport card, including the girlage under 19, who would have free transportation through this card. And this seems to us to be an absolutely sectarian decision on the part of the People's Party, on the part of the Galician Group and on the part of the Infrastructure and Living Counsellor, Mrs. Ethel Vázquez, who made, in addition, recently a completely inappropriate statement — and I regret to say this, because it is not customary in her — made statements of absolute hooligan — I suppose they told you to say that — but it does not seem to us to receive that he says that the Gondomar Town Hall has to put in line, because what was Seville lost the chair. This is not of receipt, it is of institutional respect, it cannot be admitted, because — I say — you are missing the mayor, not the municipal government, not the municipal institution, but the neighbourhood of Gondomar, which does not deserve this treatment. The Gondomar Town Hall, leaving out the case of Vigo, which I have already explained, is the only one in the Metropolitan Area who did not enter the transport agreement, when he applied for it and completed all the proceedings, even enabled budget splits to be admitted. So we think it's fair that you admit it and that it's part of the metropolitan area transport agreement. And we think, moreover, that, at this point, we should go beyond this little debate, this child debate in which we are sometimes with respect to the metropolitan area and transport between the Union, between the People's Party and the Town Hall, between the Union and the Vigo Council, between Faixóo and Caballero, and having more scope for scrutiny, thinking that a country and a metropolitan area must be built from institutional loyalty, institutional respect and cooperation. And also in the case of transport, which we have to go beyond the current transport system and think about a truly vertebrate metropolitan transport, which gives global solutions, thinking about the whole of transport, thinking about sustainable, healthy transport, also thinking about the improvement of rail transport, river transport and public road transport. So I end by asking them to abandon confrontation, to abandon partyism, to abandon sectarianism, to really feel themselves talking, to dialogue, to enter into agreements, by the image of institutions, also by the idea of institutional respect, but above all, for the benefit of the people who live in the Vigo area, who don't deserve this treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u180	Thank you, Mr Bará. Now we greet the 5th and 6th primary students of the Plurilingual Center The Solanas of the Guard. Welcome to Parliament, as well as to its teachers, who accompany us. I now give the floor to the representative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u181	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Today we are talking about Vigo's metropolitan transport, an example that reflects reality and which reveals the shortcomings of Mr Feijó's Council and governments in transport. Because Galicia's public transport management by the People's Party is full of cuts and mobility limitations for the Greeks and the Greeks in recent years. We remember the removal of separate lines of medium-distance rail transport, the removal of routes and frequencies of public road passengers, without progress in the studies of the deployment of the light subway, forgotten airport coordination, no reality in the proximity train, no real deployment of intermodality, a word, a concept so often invoked by the popular government as so many times ignored in practice. The balance of transport management by popular governments only shows passivity, ineffectiveness and inefficiency, and the management of metropolitan transport in Galicia is not an exception to this ineffectiveness, but it turns out to be an example of it. Since 2011 only the metropolitan transport of Vigo has been created, and incompletely, with the needs and shortcomings it has just shown, which has just said the BNG spokesman. Pontevedra and Ourense continue without metropolitan transport, nine years after the People's Party's governments. By the way, the Council of Ourense and its boundaries, located in the area of the metropolitan transport of Ourense, already expressed their wishes to be included in the metropolitan transport of Ourense in 1992, through the corresponding plenary agreements. Twenty-six years ago, of which the People's Party has ruled twenty-two years in Galicia; of course, a whole record of effectiveness and good work. [[Applause]] And, in this sense, there is no excuse or fault—alloys, of course—because metropolitan transport is a competence of the Autonomous Community in its ownership, 100 %, including its financing—Article 27.8 of the Autonomy Statute. And the municipalities included in metropolitan transport are already collaborating economically, paying for services that should be financed exclusively by the Galician Union. It is obvious that the so-called metropolitan transport of Galicia is still a denomination under which various transports of people with intermunicipal or intercomarcal character are provided with the epicenter of action in cities, which are its fundamental axis, cities with urban transport implanted and with their own cases (in operation, stops, bonuses...) and that it is necessary to integrate into a dialogue process. In the case of the metropolitan transport of Vigo, there is a differential fact about the other metropolitan territories of Galicia that we should not forget. It should be recalled that the Law of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo was unanimously adopted in this Parliament, which has extensive competence in public transport of passengers, powers which must be transferred by the corresponding means, essentially economic, in favour of the new Metropolitan Area institution. And this has not happened because the German Government has blocked the Vigo Metropolitan Area by presenting a litigation-administrative resource on its constitution. Once again, the People's Party and the German Government, most outstanding of the majority and the partisan services that could lend you that majority in the Metropolitan Area to the vast majority of the citizens of the area who need metropolitan transport for their mobility. In this sense, the Socialist Group is proposing a modification amendment to unlock the Metropolitan Area: in the field of the competences of the Metropolitan Transport System of Vigo that the Area itself decides. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u182	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. On the part of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Marcos Cal Ogongo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u183	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all of you, good day to the guests who follow us also from the rostrum. I'm going to focus on Gondomar's case, which is a clear example of popular sectarianism and its inability to defend the rights of citizenship, and even more in those municipalities and municipalities that don't control. Today, the Gondomar Town Hall is the only municipality in its surroundings and the Area, along with Vigo, which is not yet integrated into the Vigo Metropolitan Transport Plan, although it has been three years since its launch. As a result, thousands of neighbors and neighbors can't access the 50% discount on their tickets and young people can't access the New People's card for free travel. That is why we are going to vote in favour of this initiative. And, moreover, we also present an amendment to add to solve the deficiencies in the route that travels in the service of Gondomar, which was what caused in his day that the Gondomar Town Hall voted against, in 2015, the incorporation into the metropolitan area as a pressure measure, understanding that it was time to solve those deficiencies that the citizen himself had been demanding from him. With these two questions, if the Galician Union incorporates Gondomar into the metropolitan transport plan, and if these routes were solved, we would have solved the problems that are also calling for neighbourhood. These are the two questions that call for neighbourhood and the two issues that need to be resolved. And those two questions are resolved uniquely and exclusively since the Galician Union, here the Gondomar Town Hall has nothing else to do. And at this point, we find that the Union refuses to sign with the only interest and with the only intention to wear out a socialist mayor, showing sectarianism and the use of institutions for private interests, thus prejudicing citizenship. The only thing you're considering in this case is how much electoral revenue you can get out of, and the proof is that the agreement's been prepared for over a year. Therefore, or the Galician Union does not want — which is what we understand in this partisan battle — or does not know, or does not have the ability to, for a year, integrate Gondomar into the transport plan. Whatever it is, because it doesn't mean because it doesn't know, the People's Party at the Galician Union is proving not to be aware of what should be demanded of a Government of the Galician Union. From the Infrastructure Council it's about moving a message: Gondomar has been out of the building of this transport area at the beginning of 2015 because the municipality voted against, and therefore has the responsibility for this. This is the shameful strategy, while citizenship has the consequences. The message sent by the Council is a baseless excuse, for two reasons. First of all, three years ago, of course, the Gondomar Corporation rejected the People's Party's proposal because it offered no solution to the conflict that is still today — and it is demanding citizenship, which has been manifested very recently — exists with the dealers of buses ATSA and Melitur, not because they do not want to join the Metropolitan Plan. The concessionaires don't complete any route between the bus stations in Gondomar and Vigo, which I think we'll all agree that we need a solution, and leave the users in Manufe, without entering the center of the municipality of Gondomar. At that moment he voted against the municipal government so that the Government of the Union had put a solution to this problem, which was a demand for neighbouring, but the Council of Galicia decided that it was best not to do anything about it and so that it could wear out a government of another color. Let's see what they do today when they vote. I suppose they'll do the same thing again to go on with this battle, which is the only thing you care about. The other reason why this argument is not supported is that, today, the only thing that is needed now for Gondomar to have access to the advantages of metropolitan transport in the Vigo area is political will on the part of the Galician Union. There's no reason the People's Party doesn't now support what he defended three years ago. We — as I say — have introduced this amendment to add so that these problems can be solved on the road. It's a demand from the neighborhood that there are lines that join the two bus stations, Vigo and Gondomar, and that the frequencies and stops to meet the needs of the citizenry. Because you don't have much way to integrate into the metropolitan transport of Gondomar without solving these deficiencies, which is the main problem. And yesterday, that the People's Party made the route, that Feijóo and the Minister of Development made the route of Teo going by train and found that they couldn't use the line and had to take a bus, they could have caught it too, or tried to catch, a bus to go from Vigo station to Gondomar station, and so would the Minister of Development also see the problem they have here, which is generating the People's Party on the board of Galicia. Nothing else on my side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u184	Thank you, Mr. Cal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all to clarify a question about certain accusations made here not too long ago. Mr. Losada, I just want to clarify one question: two socialist mayors of Lugo accused; two socialist mayors of Ourense accused, one convicted. The last two former Secretaries General of the charged PSdG. You're the little Swiss of Galician political corruption, the two-in-one defendants, and we don't admit any kind of moral class in this sense. You can't just allow this. [[Applause]] It's too expensive. [[Applause]] On this subject, I want to make two clarifications, one consideration and one request. Clearances on the motion. The Committee on the Follow-up to the Metropolitan Transport Convention you are asking for was held on May 2nd. All members of this Transport Plan, three of them have not come — I have heard some socialist talk about dialogue — to this committee. The three that didn't come: the mayor of Fornelos, the mayor of Porriño and the mayor of Nigrán. The three of the PSOE, you can see that they have a lot of interest in dialogue with the Board. Look, the responsibility that Gondomar is not included in the Metropolitan Transport Plan has names and names: Francisco Ferreira and his corporation, the mayor of Gondomar. Gondomar's inclusion was vetoed four times by the current mayor and government partners. Full of January 2015, today's mayor — and then in the opposition — voted against; in February, he voted against. Agreement for the unlocking of the metropolitan area, February 2016—then he was already mayor—not if he wanted to join. Signed by the Metropolitan Transport Convention between Junta and Vigo, do you know who was the only mayor who was absent?, the mayor of Gondomar, who asked to join the plenary in February 2017. You know why? He explains it or his own mayor in a press release: "The director points out that the change of opinion is motivated by the flood of calls from young people to the OMIC and the council requesting information about the New People's card" — this bad, Mr. Fernández—. "They will have our support," guarantees or PP. "I don't think you can dominate the personal pride of a politician to the general interest of these neighbours," he acknowledged or mayor. You know what's the reason Gondomar isn't on the transport plan. We're not going to punish the neighbors for their mayor's lack of discretion, nor are we going to reward a mayor for his irresponsibility. Gondomar is a council of the 22 Greek applicants who have asked to join this plan, and will, of course, be treated scrupulously in the same conditions as the others, no less. I'm considering what I want to do to the BNG and that of En Marea. I think the time has come for you to abandon this calculated equivalence, and in two ways. Putting aside the citizens, recognizing, first, that the Union has fulfilled absolutely all its commitments in the field of metropolitan transport. And, if not, tell me, Mr. Bará — say it here today — which you have not met. And secondly, recognizing that the only person responsible for discrimination suffered by metropolitan citizens is called Abel Caballero. Not only did he discriminate against them, but he also denounced the agreement, abandoning it, and today he's not in the Metropolitan Transport Plan. By the way, I have already announced that this group has taken an initiative to — in compliance with what the mayors agreed at that meeting — ask Mr. Caballero to reconsider his position and re-enter the Transport Plan. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this fairness led to the neighborhoods of the municipalities that you rule were treated as second-class citizens in Vigo. And this situation today is partially corrected thanks to the fact that a mayor of the People's Party — the mayor of Roundabout — came to the courts to stand up to the beloved leader. And thanks to that, today, the neighbors of the Roundup do not segregate from the rest of the municipalities in which the PP governs, but not those of Moaña, the Cangas and the Porriño, who were thrown away by their serialism; by the serialism of the municipal governments of the BNG and En Marea. No more! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I'm done, and I want to do it with a request. Let, socialist gentlemen, practice neighboring xenophobia. Stop encouraging the confrontation of Vigo citizens with the rest of Galician citizens. Leave the manipulation. Leave the demagogy. Leave the lie. No one defends them anymore, no one defends them or the general secretary of the Vigeist Socialists, who today does not come to debate here, for something will be! Seen, the Bolivarian mayor of Vigo tried to raid the metropolitan area by violating the Law of the Vigo metropolitan area, approved unanimously by this Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, Mr Fernández, I should like to read it, because what the law says is that it has to be incorporated into metropolitan transport. [[Murmurs.]] And then, according to winning concessions, they're taking over the metropolitan area. [[Murmurs.]] That's what the law says. Read it. Second, he forced the illegal appointment of national qualifications in the metropolitan area to pretend it worked legally, and this with the convolence of the Pontevedra Deputy. [[Murmurs.]] And now, with this magnificent card that you have drawn, you do not comply with the agreement and the Metropolitan Transport Plan, the Law on Tax Measures 2/2017 — of course, that in this matter you have made no amendment — Article 150 of the Regulation on Local Corporation Services and Law 16/1987, on Land Transport Management, adopted by a socialist minister named Abel Caballero. Bravo! Bravo!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u186	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u187	Bravo! Don't say the PP, Your Honor! [[Applause]] None of these issues that I just blamed for the PP claims, they were told by judicial resolutions, three different sayings... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u188	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u189	...for three different judges. And Mr Bará's solution is to equalize, in his judgment, the aggressor and the aggressor. I'm done, remembering that 15,000 beams have this card...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u191	...and they benefit from bonuses that pay the same neighbors that you discriminate in Vigo. I think the vicars who work outside Vigo and who have to pay two tickets every day would pay one if you reconsidered it. And there's one thing that seems to me the most serious of all. Last week, citizens from Round it went up on a bus and citizens from Vigo rebuked them for doing so on the Pass Vigo card. You know why? Statements from the beloved leader in Hello, president! vigues: "this will cost Vigo hundreds of billions of euros" — Literal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u192	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u193	"They will remain streets without fixing the cost of the Feijóo Law."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u194	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u195	I don't know if Vigo wants to look like New York, but the mayor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u197	...everytime it looks more like Caracas. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u198	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Mr. Bará. Group author of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u199	Look, Pacios, you started well, eh! Yesterday you organized here the round-up party and we were all delighted. [[Laughter]] And today you threw all your good image and prestige on the ground, won the pulse on yesterday's day. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We could apply that popular saying of "carallo, lura, sings booty!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Speaking of the shock... also comes the tale perfectly for the occasion, because look what you've left here! [[Laughter]] Exactly against us not much—but, well, against other parts of the benches you've gone quite far! And I suppose you'll have right to reply here for allusions. Then I won't be the one who defends who can defend himself. But I'm going to tell you a few things about your intervention. The position of the Board on Gondomar is absolutely indefensible, it is absolutely inflamable, because what should you see that the current mayor had voted before or voted to veto his entry, as they are now, when there were two follow-up Commission meetings in April 2017 and May 2018, after Gondomar had applied for its incorporation, fulfilling all the conditions, and vetoing it? And he's the only one. You're talking here about 22 requesting municipalities. No, we're talking about the Vigo Metropolitan Area Convention, and only Gondomar is out, besides Vigo, who has been thrown out. Just Gondomar! And there's no reason to exclude Gondomar, unless it's the sectarianism of the People's Party and the repression they're exerting against a council because it doesn't have a government of the People's Party. That's the only reason: sectarianism! That's really xenophobia. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And on the other hand, I have to tell you who stopped the metropolitan area went to Galician Union with a contentious resource for the annulment of that metropolitan transport area. It was Galician Union! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, of course, we're not in fairness. I don't know if you heard my speech, I'm sure Mr. Abel Losada didn't like it very much. We will always criticize those attitudes of localism, those attitudes of minifundarium, those attitudes of papalatism that have those who think they can rule on their land and exclude others. [[Laughter]] The BNG will never do, it will never support, for example, a parking lot anywhere where it governs for exclusive use for residents in its municipality, it will never do, it will never do. [[Murmurs.]] So there's no equivalence. [[Applause]] You didn't hear my speech. As far as amendments are concerned, we accept the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group and also by the Tide, and of course I also explain our own amendment so that the Union negotiates with the Vigo Council its effective integration into metropolitan transport. And it's not just about metropolitan transport, it's about once and for all abandoning this partisan strategy of confrontation and agreeing on issues that interest people and benefit people. I think they would set a very good example for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u200	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Leicega, what do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mr. Leicega's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u201	Yes. According to Article 76.3, I believe that some expressions have been seen that affect the decoration of this parliamentary group. In particular, I refer to the expression of use of "neighbor xenophobia." Call us xenophobics. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't say anything anymore in relation — which could also be done — with the reference to a mayor Bolivarian, because I understand that he means that he has an absolute majority very solid and that, therefore, so. But it seems to me that the "neighboring xenophobia" should withdraw. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u202	I ask you to remove the expression "neighbor xenophobia". [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Give a voice to Mr. Pazos' chair. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] No, quiet. No, let's not complicate, let's not complicate. Give a voice to Mr. Pazos' chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u203	Yes, thanking Mr. Torrado's advice. First, to clarify that I never addressed the Socialist Group accusing him of "neighboring xenophobia," if I did so with the Vigo Council. If it seems inappropriate, I withdraw "xenophobia" for "neighbor discrimination."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u204	Withdrawal. Thank you. We're passing, therefore, now... Mr. Bará, did you accept the two amendments? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was generous, it's noticed that you're onomastic today. Yes, sir. Last proposition not of law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga and seven other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the process of European integration, as well as the principles which must inspire the external action and the demands of the Galician Union to the European institutions in this regard.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u205	There is an amendment by the Parliamentary Group on Tide and an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u206	Mr. Puy has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, 9 May 1950 is when the famous Schuman Declaration, which gives rise to the birth of the European Coal and Steel Community, takes place, as it were, since 1985, today, on 9 May, is celebrated as Europe's Day. In that statement, Robert Schuman, who, as you know, was the French Minister for Foreign Affairs after World War II and that he himself suffered in his blood the war conflict, since, being of French nationality, he was of German and Luxembourg origin, he said on that day: "The contribution that an organised and living Europe can make to civilization is essential for the maintenance of peaceful relations. Europe was not built, and there was a war. Europe won't be done at once, nor will it be the work of a whole. It will be thanks to the concrete achievements that they believe, first of all, a solidarity indeed." That is precisely why Schuman proposes that it be submitted as the first concrete realization, that an association be created for the Franco-German joint production of coal and steel, with a common authority, and from there comes what is the philosophy of the European Union. Di Schuman: "This way, the fusion of interests indispensable to the creation of an economic community will be carried out and the fermentation of a deeper community among countries that have for so long faced bloody divisions will be introduced." This is the origin of the European Union, this is the yeast you made over the years that we arrived where we are today. In 1951 the ECSC and later Euratom were created; in 1957 the European Economic Community was established in the Treaties of Rome; in 1965 the executives of all international organisations were merged, both the Commission and the Council were created. Then, with a perfectly economic logic described in Schuman's quote, which was a customs union that allowed the free trade of goods to claim for its functioning the free trade of persons and capital as well. The improvement of the single market is the balance of the Single European Act of 1986; it is a single market with freedom of movement of persons, goods and goods; it requires for its best efficiency a single currency, which is the one introduced into the Maastricht Treaty and which is established in 2002. The best proof that the yeast worked was that it passed from six Member States, the founders, to twenty-eight, after two major expansions: first, towards the countries of the south, who did not enter before having dictatorial regimes, not democratic; and then after the fall of communism, towards the east, for the overthrow of communist dictatorships, after the fall of the Soviet Union. [[Germany, France, Italy and Benelux]] And since then, since its foundation - and precisely its own evolution thus demonstrates - the countries, which have passed from six to twenty-eight, have done because they saw in this Europe the guarantee of peace, the guarantee of democracy and the guarantee of economic progress, that is, the democratic space in which to live and achieve well-being. That is why Europe is, above all, a union of values, and that is why in our non-legislative proposal we bring to this House today at our first point, what we do is we demand a closer union, based on values, a Europe of values that must be of trust and cooperation among countries precisely to guarantee the rights, freedoms and inspiring principles of the European Union, because we are convinced that the European Union will not be without the democratic values that constitute the basis of its creation. Today, as in other times in the past, the European Union is experiencing a new crisis, and curiously, as in the past, in particular with the final oil crisis of the seventy, which has taken place precisely in the development of the market, the political and institutional crisis has to do with an economic crisis. And we understand that that yeast that in its day has generated a crisis that has made the market perfect, this crisis that has shown itself is the need for a better realization of monetary authorities, an improvement in monetary and tax institutions, so that asymmetric crises can be corrected, which to a large extent is what we have seen suffer. And so also in our non-legislative proposal, what we are asking is that, together with the improvement of markets, an improvement of what monetary authorities are, economic cohesion and solidarity within the European Union should also be strengthened. Obviously, firstly, within the framework of the recently known multiannual budget framework, with a reinforcement of the policies that are working in the short term, small but important, in the field of cohesion, in the field of agricultural policy and also in the area of the policy of promoting cross-border cooperation. Secondly, of course, as it is a union of values and an economic union, the crisis has provoked an institutional crisis by the reaction of certain nationalisms linked to the old states, by the emergence of populist movements, which curiously question the European Union, in one case populism — we call them, following Vidal-Folch — of rich people, for example in the German field, where what they deny is the redistributive capacity of the European Union, or, on the other hand, of people marginalized by the crisis, which is the case of French populism, which grows in the heat of working classes, who in the past voted the forces, essentially to the Communist Party, who have passed through this nationalism re-claiming of the economy itself towards the National Front; and this threat evidently culminates with the English nationalist populist revolt in the Brexit referendum. That is why we also set out, in the second point of paragraph 2 of our non-law proposal, the importance of the European Union, precisely in order to avoid nationalist populism, in order to encourage cultural differences, cultural diversity and linguistic diversity, which is one of the greatest values of the European Union. Another aspect of the current crisis, which has evidently been dragged for many years, is the democratic deficit of European institutions. And that's why we are asking for further progress in correcting this democratic deficit. That is why, in paragraph 4 of point 2, what we are asking for is greater participation by the autonomous communities, Länders or regions, which have regulatory capacity, particularly by strengthening the Committee on the Regions, particularly by making it possible for this committee to go to the European Union's Court of Justice, and to have greater dialogue and capacity of influence both in Parliament and in the Council, and in the Commission. Finally, the last aspect of the crisis in European institutions has to do with the inequality that the crisis has caused not only within different countries but also among different countries. In this case, in our proposal for a non-law, what we ask is that, together with the improvement of the markets, there will be greater redistribution, progress in the construction of a social and European model, which is the original social and European model of the European Union, which has been built together by the German, Italian and even some French Christians, such as Schuman himself, and the Italian, German and French Social Democrats, to move forward from that agreement by a European social model in the maintenance of cohesion funds and, above all, in the near future, also to tax authorities with the ability to redistribute income and, in turn, to fight against asymmetric crises. In short, all of these reasons bring today this House, the Galician Parliament, on European Day, to the House that represents Galicia, precisely one of the regions that has contributed most to the creation of a European identity since the times when pilgrims traveled the Path of Stars, this GNP as a clear reaffirmation of our commitment to the European Union, which represents peace, peaceful coexistence, solidarity, prosperity and struggle for a more equal society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u208	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u209	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Today's reading of the GNP presented by the People's Parliamentary Group initially surprised by its statement of urgency, which can be explained only, of course, on the occasion of today's 9th May celebration of Europe's Day. And in that sense, if I also want to claim that initial text, that statement by Robert Schuman sponsoring the constitution of the ECSC Treaty, when, as a first line, he told us that world peace cannot be saved without a creative effort — he would add further — comparable to the dangers that threaten it. Of course, the Socialists are committed to strengthening the union and, of course, strengthening the European Project. Our predecessors and current leaders, of course, have always been and are an example of our commitment, of the socialist commitment, of the Social Democratic commitment to the European Project. And, of course, we can and must also match virtually all the terms of the declaration and of the principles, certainly generic and certainly also social democrats, which are reflected in the text of the GNP that we are debating today in the House, even after the exit of an institutional crisis of legitimacy, of a socio-economic crisis marked by the failure of the Constitutional Treaty of 2005 and marked by the great economic and social recession that originated in the years 2008. I cannot forget, at no time, the tremendous crisis of refugees that had begun in 2015 and that is still continuing, the crisis — as the PNL proponent also said — that has really exacerbated the populisms of all kinds and all colors. A social departure from the great recession, the threats of President Trump's current policies — which can already be considered the world's greatest disruptor — or precisely the Brexit process are intensifying reflection towards a new impetus from the European Project sixty years after the Treaty of Rome on the creation of the European Economic Community, which has to turn towards a true union, not only economic and monetary, but a genuine social and political union. And in that sense, the Socialists called upon the People's Party and called upon the Rajoy Government to present in the new and current European debate a firm position, a non-temperature position, a merely and clearly continental position, and not positions that might seem at times Nordic in certain respects, which will not interest the south of Europe, or sometimes merely Anglo-Saxon positions. That's why the Socialists' Parliamentary Group tabled an amendment which revolves around three fundamental axes. First of all, we say that this process of European integration must be given absolutely priority to the European pier of social rights, jointly approved by the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on 17 November 2017 at the social summit in Gothenburg — Sweden — by granting citizenship new and more effective social rights in three axes, such as equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions and protection and social inclusion. And we say, and so we include it in the Welsh External Action Strategy, that Galicia calls for the European Project as a model of social, economic, legal and democratic integration that, by safeguarding the identities of each territory, seeks in a determined way to promote a model of peaceful coexistence, solidarity, prosperity and equality, contrary to the models of individualist society, speculative and xenophobic. Europe needs to rebuild the social model, indeed, and Galicia in Europe bets, and it has to bet, to restore the social model broken by the great recession. Secondly, we are in the politics of strict struggle against avoidance, tax evasion and money laundering, both at the level of the Union and in each of the States that compose it. Indicators, as the European Parliament's recommendations to the Council and the Commission say, of good fiscal governance must be present on the European path; cross-border cooperation on VAT or harmonisation of corporate tax bases should contribute to a new European fiscal policy, which always requires greater transparency on the part of all public and private agents involved in financial transactions. And thirdly, and fundamental also for Galicia, to spread all political action on the part of the Government of Greece so that in the multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027, which has just proposed the Commission, does not lose weight Galicia in the aid of the CAP or in the funds in question, betting for a greater increase in Community budget which bets on by young people and girls, research and development programmes, the fight against climate change and solidarity in the area of migration. Let's just remember, to finish, how the CAP financed projects in Galicia amounting to EUR 190 million last year, reaching 33,000 people, and how cohesion funds in this framework period 2014-2020 are providing Galicia with EUR 4.150 million. These are actions in which the Greek Government must fully involve itself, and we consider them essential to this institutional declaration today on the occasion of the Day of Europe. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u210	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, it is a good day this to remember that we have the idea of Europe and those we are here representing the whole of Greek citizenship. There are a number of ways of understanding the European construction, the liberal form, the unique and exclusively occupied form of economic issues, completely bypassing social issues, completely bypassing the peoples that make up the European Union, completely abandoning the policies of well-being, and that is perhaps what has caused during the last few decades, already a progressive disaffectation by European citizenship in relation to Community institutions and, in general, to the construction of the European Project. On the other hand, there is another option of building a European Union based on citizenship, full citizenship, based on people's rights, based on well-being. The political space of En Marea is a space fully committed to democracy and social justice, so they are the only parameters from which we support and support the construction of the European Union. That is why we wanted to make an amendment that would complement this motion for a declaration in a necessary way. We agree with the spokesperson of the People's Party when he says that the European Union has a democratic deficit in its construction. We agree, and that is why at the beginning of the statement we want an amendment which aims to pick up from a democratic point of view and from the point of view of the principles which must be those that guide the European Union's action, which should not be alien to anyone in this House. We speak of a European Union based on the well-being of the population as a whole, in the full exercise of the civil and political rights of citizenship, in social justice, and in particular in an idea that has been about 20 years ago, reminded Juan Ramon Capella: the need for democratic control of economic decisions that condition people's lives. We are talking about the need to directly control, through democratic institutions, those that directly affect the guarantee or cuts in social rights and create minimum material conditions for life with the dignity of people. We are talking about the need to put an end to non-formalised institutions or forms of rule, such as the Troika — made up of the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission itself — which can condition or abolish recognised rights in legislation, whether Community or even of a state character, because we remember that without material conditions of dignified life there is no full affirmation of full citizenship, neither European nor state, nor any other character. That's why we make that first amendment. In the second paragraph, when you refer to what kind of external action must be carried out at the Galician Summit, and we are talking about principles, we agree with the principles set out here, but, of course, it is necessary to complement them, precisely for what you have just commented, because a debate is taking place on the new multiannual budget, and hence the principles of economic, social and territorial cohesion — where you speak — must be seen in the light of which are the proposals at this time of the European Commission, and therefore we propose that — in coherence with the previous principles and the principles which are stated in Marea in the way of building the European Union, based on democracy and social justice — we reject the budgetary claims announced by the Committee on Increase in Defence and Control of External Borders through agreements that in no way respect fundamental rights in a systematic way, as is the case of Turkey. In Turkey's case, we're seeing six billion euros drifted away to contain a population that was running away from the Syrian war, towards a state that holds them back, which keeps them systematically violating fundamental rights. Even last week we remembered at the José Couso Prize the press freedom, the imprisonment in Turkey of Zehra Doğan, which was condemned simply by portraying the massacre of Nusaybin — a Kurdish city by Turkish aviation — and this is unique and exclusively by the world, and this is the country where the European Union is making a budgetary commitment in relation to the next multiannual budget, among other things to prevent some of the basic principles of the European Union being met, as is the scope of international cooperation. That's why we also say, on the contrary, that we bet on the cooperation and development of a policy of asylum and shelter, that we guarantee safe entry routes to Europe, that they prevent the mass death of people trying to reach European coasts to save their lives from safe death in war conflicts, and I want to remember that only in 2017 1,300 people died in the central Mediterranean because of this. Similarly, and also derived from the European Commission's own forecasts for the next multiannual period, we believe from En Marea that the need for policies to ensure a common, sustainable, social and environmentally sound agricultural policy is not obvious from the environmental principles and also from the population. They speak in the last of their paragraphs of claiming a greater architecture that guarantees the social rights of our citizens. Well, Article 4 of the Galician Autonomy Statute collects as the first social right of the whole population of Galicia the right to live and work on their own land. For that reason, we consider it necessary to include a point where, in coherence with this, we seek to ensure policies that prevent massive internal emigration within Europe from regions and countries such as Galicia, net exporter of skilled labour, and unqualified, which then causes, among others, jointly or structurally already in this case — and I am finishing now — policies that cause the socio-demographic bias that we are living, and that is why we ask them to turn to active policies of endogenous development, which make population and reverse the current situation of demographic implosion. With these amendments, which we believe complement and contribute to consolidating the European Union's building spirit from democracy and social justice, they will find us in the political space of En Marea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u212	Thank you, Mr. Villares. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u213	Good morning. Thank you, President. Today is Europe's day, we don't see, actually, a lot of citizens' enthusiasm for this date, and I'm telling you, in the meantime, that we have nothing to celebrate at the BNG. The People's Party here praises the European Union, as it has done recently with respect to the Constitution. And with regard to Professor Puy -- here Professor Puy talked more than spokesman Puy -- I'd say his initiative is a happy flower, peace and love initiative. Peace and love, because they speak of peace, prosperity, of the spirit of everyday brotherhood of our union, of the noble ideal of European brotherhood brotherhood. It's very religious, isn't it? For the People's Party the European Union is the fifth essence of brotherhood, peace, fraternity and universal progress. And in view of that is the axis of evil, the axis of evil that are populisms, the nationalist egoisms so said, without any nuances -- you said something else here -- and the captive thoughts. There's not much self-criticism, so you can see it. The BNG, of course, does not participate in this reductionist speech, simplistic and maniculate it, and we want to make some clarifications, in addition. Look, the European Union is not the same as Europe. It seems obvious, but it is. Iceland, or Norway, or Switzerland, are European countries, don't they? and it seems they don't engage in that Europeanism that you come here to pray. Europeism is not the same as Europepanatism, because you too seem to be the founding fathers and mothers of Europe, of the European Union. And we also wanted to clarify one thing, the Greek nationalism has a determined and clear European vocation, universalist and solidarity, and it has been held since the thirty years, when Plácito Castro, a nationalist, participated in the society of nations, and was there recognised Galicia as a European nation, because Galicia was also long before these pilgrims watched the stars coming to Galicia, was the first kingdom of Europe; the kingdom of Galicia was the first kingdom of Europe. [[Applause]] We, of course, do not celebrate a European Union which denies us as a people and as a nation; we do not celebrate a European Union which imposes unjust and insolidary economic policies, for which many people suffer and die; we do not celebrate this European Union which erects physical and mental walls and abandons millions of people in the fields of the shame of Greece and Turkey; and we do not recognize ourselves in this European Union who not only abandons their fate, abandons to their death thousands of people who lose their lives in that real world was common in which they converted the Mediterranean. [[Applause]] Of course, we don't want this Europe. [[Applause]] You praise the benefits of integration into the European Union, but you hide the prejudices, you don't talk about the prejudices that our economy, our industry, our agricultural sector and our fishing as a result of integration into Europe. Of course, we would prefer to be in the European Union but as Malta is — which is a much smaller country than Galicia, and we do not envy Malta, we think we are a much richer country — as Estonia is or as Denmark is, with decision-making capacity in Europe. Even as the Faeroe Islands are, do as I say, the Faeroe Islands or Flanders, also with the capacity of participation, but of direct participation in vital decisions for their future, for their economy. You talk here about cultural and linguistic diversity, and you beg and defend that idea, but you do not comply with the European Charter of Languages, as they have been told on numerous occasions. [[Applause]] And what draws our attention to this initiative is that they haven't talked about any budget forecasts for the 2021-2027 period, they've forgotten this question. Look, these are known forecasts, besides, they recently had a chance, because they did the initiative two or three weeks ago. I remind you that today was Europe's Day, it coincided in full and they took the initiative, but they don't talk about the global budget reduction and, more importantly, about the drastic reduction in cohesion funds. And they're not talking, in addition, about the failure of the Welsh outer strategy of the Galician Union, which has put as the battle horse of the claim the fact that they were taken into account as a criterion of sharing the ageing population and also the demographic criterion. That doesn't appear anywhere. It doesn't appear anywhere in those budget forecasts. Do you know why he doesn't show up anywhere? Because the European Union's political decisions and priorities are completely different, forecasts are increasing military spending and border control, which is where European budget increases. Look, the increase in military spending, subjecting itself to NATO guidelines and orders, is multiplier for 22 in that period, what do you think? BNG disagrees. The cost of border control, for this bunkering of Europe, to close the doors to the people who are desperately fleeing from wars and persecution, is also multifolded by three. Of course, the BNG does not celebrate this militaristic, insolidary, soulless, inhuman and unjust European Union. We're not going to celebrate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u214	Thank you, Mr Bará. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u215	Well, I appreciate you realizing that it is Europe Day that most groups today thanks to this initiative, that they will recognize that it is a successful day, but urgency comes because precisely last week — there are some deadlines for discussing something in this House — we knew that budgetary forecasts would be made public, and that is precisely why — which is beyond the day of the celebration — is certainly included a bet on the maintenance of cohesion policies and agricultural policy. Having said this, let me have two or three reflections, because Mr Bará pulls out sixteen thousand themes in a schematic and without any foundation; he has an important mental confusion, because it turns out that fraternity is now a religious concept, I believe it came from the French Revolution, but at last we already know that what he wants is militarism but from the Order of Malta, not the militarism of democratic countries. That's the ideal of the Block, Malta, beautiful, an island, is perfectly defined. I said the Socialist spokesperson — that I have already come forward to accept all the amendments — that this was a proposal not of Social Democratic law. Well, this is a non-law proposition that is trying to establish the foundations of the construction of a Europe where we all take: liberals, Christian Democrats and Social Democrats. So when you, for example, ask me to add that freedom of opportunity has to be in the process of European construction, which is a fundamentally liberal concept, that of equal opportunities, because you will understand that I accept it, because that is exactly the framework we want to build. And finally, working in that basic consensus to establish rules of play where we all feel comfortable. Indeed, its amendments affect the new fair market, which is also a liberal principle, the fair market, with which we are also in full agreement, and which is a principle shared by liberals as well as social democrats, and of course we add — as we have already said about cohesion policies — the reinforcement that you propose to us. As far as tides are concerned, European construction begins in 1950. In 1949 an institution was created, an international regional organization that intended to build the European that you say, that of citizens, based solely on declarations of rights. It's an ideal, it's failed in the period of war, it's the Council of Europe, and the Council of Europe, as you know, has 49 members, and I'd just ask you to reflect, that it worked better as a guarantee of the rights and construction of the welfare state, a union based on sharing economic interests, which is the yeast that made the European Union grow, or another based on ideals that we all shared but remained in it, in an exclusive international organization? I think that thought might lead you to think that the European Union is not so bad. Asylum, I would like to remind you that last year — only the European authorities alone — Frontex has rescued 34.392 people from the waters of the sea, so perhaps all the efforts of NGOs, etc., are important, but they are official data from the European Union itself. As the Block said, it has nothing to celebrate. When we entered Europe we had about half a gross domestic product per capita in purchasing power parity, and now we have 80%, and Europe has grown in all this, but the Block has nothing to celebrate, it has to celebrate the kingdom of the Swedes, which you know the Portuguese consider is not a Greek kingdom, but it is the kingdom of Portugal, and we could talk about it a lot. What is true is that I recommend you in this respect to read the last essay book by Professor Villares, the president of the Council of Culture, where he explains perfectly how Galicia's most decisive man was Gelmirez, precisely because instead of entering a warrior kingdom that sought the fight against the south, which was what he was doing, he preferred to open the way of understanding with Europe through Rome...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u216	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u217	...which marked the story of Galicia thoroughly and brings us closer, possibly, to the Order of Malta than other things, but that's what there is. On the budgetary framework, it was said that it has come down a lot, it has dropped 5% to the CAP, 7% to the regional policy, and in the last proposal that we had known before it became public, these prospects fell, respectively, 25% to 33% in the regional policy and 15% to 30% for the CAP. I want to tell you with this that this is a process that begins to start, we've started a lot worse, with cuts up to 30%, and now we're talking about smaller cuts, which would be compensated with other games, because this financial framework increases the total funds of the European Union and, in addition, distributes them differently, from which Galicia can also take advantage.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u218	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u219	Therefore, it is time to get to work to improve that pact, and of course it would be good for both the Greek Government and the Government of Spain to know that Galicia supports this process of European construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u220	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u221	At the end of the debate, we shall vote. As you all know about the proposals, I'm going to avoid reading all the proposals and we're going to vote in accordance with the parliamentary groups. We begin by voting on the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Anton Sánchez. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr.Antón Sánchez García and Mr. Marcos Cal Ogango, on the negotiation by the Galician Council with the Council of Coruña and the other parties involved in the revision of the 2004 port conventions, as well as the criteria of management, the legal form of the consortium, the financing and access to the external port and the other sections contained in the proposed protocol transferred by the municipal Government of Coruña. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u222	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mr Jacobo Moreira. Yes, what do you want the word for, Mr. Moreira? Give a voice to Mr. Moreira's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u223	Yes, President, to request a point of order, the three points separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u224	Thank you. So we proceed and we vote first on point 1. Voting of the first point of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado del Río and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Justice in connection with the creation of new judicial units in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; abstentions, 32. The voting is positive. The first point of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u225	We now vote point 2. Vote for the second point of the Proposal, not G.P. law. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado del Río and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Justice in connection with the creation of new judicial units in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 6; abstentions, 26. The voting is positive. The second point of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u226	Let's vote point 3. Voting the third point of the Proposal, not the law of the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado del Río and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Justice in connection with the creation of new judicial units in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 6; abstentions, 26. The voting is positive. The third point of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u227	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Dolores Toja. Was there a transaction proposal?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u228	We accept the Merea Addendum Amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u229	Thank you. Let's vote later on that add-on amendment. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms. Maria Dolores Toja Suárez and Fr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the realization by the Government of Galicia of a study on the possible implementation of the system of individual transferable quotas and its implications for the multi-specific fisheries that operate in the Cantabria. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u230	We are now voting on the proposal by the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Ms. Luca Chao, in accordance with the transaction she herself has read yesterday in the debate. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, on the initiative of Ms. Luca Pérez Chao and Ms. Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the salary situation of the teachers and the teaching staff of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u231	We are now voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on behalf of Mrs Burgo, to which no amendments have been tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Don Maria de la Concepción Burgo López and Don Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the impulse by the Junta de Galicia of a pact by the Galician language and the actions to be carried out in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u232	We voted in favour of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Rivas Cruz, who does not accept the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia for the declaration of expiry of the San Rafael mining concession (num. 2946) in the district of Touro. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u233	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Bará, who said that he accepted the amendments. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bara Torres and five other Members, on the convening by the Government of Galicia, as soon as possible, of the Commission to follow up the cooperation agreement for the joint development of the metropolitan transport of Galicia in the Vigo Metropolitan Area, and the inclusion on its agenda of the request of the Gondomar Council for its incorporation into that type of transport. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u234	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy, who accepts the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Pedro Puy Fraga and seven other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the process of European integration, as well as the principles which must inspire the external action and the demands of the Galician Union to the European institutions in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; votes against, 18. The voting is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted. Institutional statement on the judgement of the Navarre Provincial Court regarding the events in Pamplona during the morning of July 7, 2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u235	Before you open the doors, I'll start reading an institutional statement. On today we'll have to read two, now I read this first, which was the one proposed at the Speaker's Board. I'll read it in this order, we'll read the other one in the afternoon. Step-by-step: "Acquainted with the judgement of the Navarre Provincial Court that qualifies as sexual abuse (and not sexual assault) the events occurring in Pamplona during the early morning of July 7, 2016, the Parliament of Galicia agrees to state: 1.- The Galician Parliament reaffirms itself in its defence of separation of powers and in respect of the independence of the judiciary, a fundamental breach of the rule of law enshrined in the Constitution of 1978. However, the Courts of Justice, like the entire public demonstration of the exercise of the powers of a democratic state, are exposed to public opinion. The Galician Parliament, collecting the majority of the Greek society, expresses its disagreement with the ruling of the aforementioned judgment which, if not firm, may be resorted to the objective of modifying the legal qualification of the facts described as proved in the above-mentioned judgment as a continuing crime of sexual abuse. In this sense, it expresses its agreement with the announcement by the Prosecutor's Office to appeal against that judgment. 2.- The Galician Parliament transfers its support and solidarity to the victim, to its relatives and to people close by. 3.- The Galician Parliament shows its understanding of the disappointment and indignation of women and of all citizenship as a result of this failure. 4.- The Galician Parliament reaffirms that all institutions must act within the framework of every woman's right to full freedom, and therefore we declare our absolute rejection of any kind of sexist aggression and any other kind against women's freedoms. 5.- The Galician Parliament reaffirms its commitment to continue working for real and effective equality, in defence of women's rights, and to the eradication of inequalities and the various types of violence against them." Thank you very much for your attention. [[Approved by consent.]] We suspended the session until 4 p.m. at 6 p.m. Sorry, we can't move schedules that are set, because if we don't start later with changes. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry, four o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u236	We proceed with the sixth item on the agenda, interpelerations. La Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the consequences on the Greek financial market of the possible sale of the People's Bank
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u237	To formulate the inquiry you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u238	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Also welcome and thanking the workers and workers who accompany us this afternoon from the Banco Pastor. Well, Mr. Martínez, we've been through a decade when the financial sector has been through a huge crisis and movements that have been transforming its characteristics, and at the same time, almost a decade, demanding that you do something more than adopt that ostrich strategy of not doing anything and ignoring its consequences. It was already there, around 2008, when several financial bubbles exploded and it was the beginning of a period of acceleration of changes in the banking sector, both in its configuration and in its functions. And since then, the longer it takes, the more you confirm something that we then demanded and denounced the nationalists, which is that the answer given by the big state parties — far from being a solution — has just become part of the problem. The People's Party and the Socialist Party agreed on this so-called consistent banking restructuring, basically, to take the path contrary to what was needed. In the face of the consequences of this lack of regulation, there was more deregulation, less intervention and less control of public authorities, some actions that have accelerated a growing broth which would result both in the loss of identity and linkage with the territory of entities, and in the loss of financial capacity in our country. Nor can we understand the situation we have today, in 2018, if we do not remember that history made of privatization and the banking of savings boxes. Today it is found that there was a default strategy to reach that point and end in which, no doubt, Mr. Núñez Feizóo also has a significant protagonist when he arrived at Galician Union, who just gave them the checkmate and lied to the Greeks and Greeks saying that he had a report that would support that merger. Yesterday, one of the executives of that consulting office actually recalled in Congress — in this case of the Spanish State — that this report did not endorse that. A process that ended with this sale for foreign capital at the balance price of our boxes and of what still many shadows remain today, and it also seems that since the People's Party they don't seem to have much interest in clearing them up, because we still have a frozen investigation commission in this Parliament without working and reaching its conclusions. So they went on to do more like, for example, the absorption of the Banco Pastor by the Popular, which would then be re-founded by the entity as a subsidiary, or as the absorption of the Banco Galicia by Sabadell. An overview that, in the end, we all know what it was, and that's because Galicia today has a level of banking concentration that is higher than the average of the Spanish state, but which is also higher than the European average. And less than a year ago, the question on which we wanted to focus our attention, and which you know above all, the stocktaking fall of the People's Bank and its sale at an even greater price of balance, for the symbolic — or rather ridiculous — price of a euro, which was the counties for which Banco Santander bought the last piece of our financial system. And we want to insist here also on a question that is key to us, that this is also something that should be investigated in depth, because we can observe, and there is a general consensus around this issue, that the supervisors have also failed here, and we have also seen the same mistakes as in the Bankia crises and that in the crises of the Greek boxes. A chain of errors in supervision, but also political decisions, because this proves, in the end, the failure of that debt restructuring and the real scam that was the financial bank rescue in the Spanish state. There was also a broad consensus in assessing — and so we did in this House just a year ago — in which we agreed and discussed this issue in this Parliament and all of us agreed — that it was bad news for our economy to lose this entity. Then we didn't agree as much about what to do, or rather we reached some consensus, but we don't know if you did your homework or not, and I would like you to clarify more questions about it today, because we believe it was an insufficient effort. I'll start with one of the issues that seems to us to be most relevant to this whole matter, which is the maintenance of the Pastor brand. Since minute number one of the issues that workers' collectives and also this parliamentary group have put on the table was that it was essential to keep that mark of the Pastoral Bank to settle not only that mark, that loyalty to the territory, but also to keep a bank card and an entity itself that would favour issues such as job loss to reduce its impact. Today we don't know if you've done anything about this. Mr. Núñez Feijó gave us several headlines that he had a meeting with Mrs. Botín, but in the light of what he has just announced the very entity of the Pastor Bank, a few days ago, apparently failed, because they have just confirmed that by the fourth quarter of this year this legal integration of the three entities will be effective: Santander, Popular and Pastor. We think this is a very bad news but there's still margin for political action, there's still margin for negotiation and to put this on the table, and we ask you to do it since Galician Union. We think and share with the workers and workers who keep that mark of their own might help to alleviate some of the consequences and prevent them from getting bigger, for example as regards job maintenance. Mr. Martínez, today the workers are concerned; from this Parliament a mandate has come out to defend their jobs, but we don't know what they have done, and the situation is at least to be alarmed, because among the three entities there are 2,300 people working. That if we don't take into account all the derivatives of the associated companies that have these entities in terms of insurers or banking services, for example via telephone attention. In addition, there is tremendous duplication of offices and this is known to you — imaginable — because your government has commissioned the Competition with a report following an initiative presented by the Galician Nationalist Block and it is clear and well-invented this duality: Popular and Pastor add 231 offices and Santander 174. You don't have to be diviners to predict what this can mean. Moreover, we want to emphasize that this entity we are talking about has an important implantation in the geographical dispersion of our country, and therefore we fear that the disappearance of offices, particularly in rural areas, following the trend of recent years, increases the difficulty of accessing these services that have a lot of our population of these places. We also insist on another issue that seems fundamental to us, that it is collateral to everything we are talking about the disappearance of that brand and the separate existence of the Banco Popular-Pastor, which is the vulnerability that is being faced by banking abuse and also undermine the little involvement that, in our view, has had the Board of Galicia in recent times, where they systematically voted against strengthening our own instruments, as is the Galego Institute of Consumption. The Pastor's own case is paradigmatic of this situation when we begin with the more than 50,000 Greek and Greek shareholders who have been deceived, even workers and workers who have been coerced and coerced to acquire these actions. Some days ago we also knew, not everything would be bad news, the first ruling in Galicia to cancel a purchase of shares for considering that this popular capital extension was incompetent with the duty of information about the entity's real financial state. Much remains to be done — we think — in this area and will be the reason for other initiatives, but we would not want to stop talking about any of these consequences that come to our accelerated country, too, because of this last disappearance of an entity that was own, which is the difficulty in accessing credit. The people of our country and, above all, the small and medium-sized companies, who were a reference to this banking entity, are now going to have one less door to knock and we're worried about this issue, and we'd like to know what the board of call of Galicia is going to be. This is not the first time we've put this debate on the table, as we've seen in recent years. Since Mr Feijóo came to the government he has coincided with a peak of the fall of these credits and deposits and we can point out a fall of more than EUR 30 billion in total. In any case, regardless of the different figures, Galicia is the community where credit has fallen with greater intensity, and that the Popular-Pastor ceases to be Greek, ceases to have its own token, will have — we think — consequences, too, on the fixing of savings and on access to it to be destined for credits in our country. I shall conclude by concluding, Mr Martínez, these are, very briefly, the complex, extensive and multi-pronged consequences that in our country have this banking concentration, that loss of the Greek financial muscle and that even now the loss of the Popular-Pastor comes to consolidate. At this moment we think and always insist that there are structural measures to be taken, but we are worried about the emergencies, and within these emergencies we want to demand from the Galician Union that it involves that this Pastoral brand, that own entity, does not disappear and that this is insisted on from public authorities, because we weigh that it is the best guarantee, the best weapon that we can hold onto right now for all of us to help prevent that loss of employment, to help maintain this entity's relationship with the territory, and that this does not matter when deciding investments, and also that ensuring a network of care and offices sufficient; and, above all, the most important concern we have at this time is that which I was referring to employment, which are not smaller matters and which is also the first consequence of many others that will affect us all and all Galicians, whether or not we are employees of this entity. These are the priorities that the Galician Nationalist Block wants to put you on the table this afternoon...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u239	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u240	...after a few months where the German Government has been absent and, once again, no alternative has come up on this issue, nor do we know that it has made any adaptation to its result...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u242	...not positive. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u243	Thank you. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u244	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, good afternoon. The first thing I would like to point out is that the initiative that brings to this full date almost a year ago. Having said this, and going to the object of it, I would also like to stress that banking concentration is a shared concern by the Greek Government, I understand that also by all parliamentary groups. In fact, you have just made a reference and we have all agreed that the Galician Competition Commission will draw up a report on its impact from the point of view of competition, which is certain — it has just referred to it, as it said — it knows perfectly well. Because, of course, and by definition, any concentration in a sector can have an impact on competition. However, the background should be analysed in the banking sector. In 2008 Spain was the European country with the largest number of bank offices, with 46,000, above Germany, which then had 39,500, and France, which did not reach 39,000. Since then, the financial crisis has resulted in a major restructuring in the banking sector throughout the European Union, including Spain, and this has entailed a concentration of the number of entities with the objective — which was none other, and is still being — to guarantee solvency and its future. This restructuring process has produced a progressive adjustment in the number of offices, which in Galicia was two points lower than the state's set, according to the data provided by the Bank of Spain, of course. Once I have explained this, let me point out the three main conclusions of the report drawn up by the Galician Competition Commission: firstly, although the German banking market has higher levels of concentration, the relationship between the market structure and the level of competition existing in it does not depend solely on the levels of concentration. In the Greek banking market, a number of characteristics are confused that help to create a more favourable framework for competition, despite the level of concentration found. Despite this level of concentration in the Greek market, no company has a dominant position. There are no significant entry barriers that prevent the entry of new entities or an increase in the presence of those already rooted in Galicia. There are a number of entities, such as BBVA, CaixaBank or Bankia, with a strong presence in the Spanish and renowned market, which increase the chances of their competitive position on the Greek market, above what indicates their market shares, which are around 10%. The generalization of online banking also diffuses the geographic boundaries of markets and allows consumers and businesses to operate with an increasing number of entities even if they do not have offices open in Galicia. Fifthly, there are no impediments, legal or factual, that prevent customers from changing a bank. Sixthly, the large number of services in the banking business allows an entity to distinguish itself perfectly from the rest. So we're not in a totally homogenous product that makes competition difficult, solely based on the price, usually, all this in the prejudice of the most young entities. Seventh, the strict regulation and supervision to which credit institutions are subject makes anti-competitive practices difficult. And in the event that they could be produced, they would be detected and sanctioned, as, for example, has just happened with the fine of EUR 91 million imposed by the National Markets Commission and the Competition to four of the main Spanish entities. Secondly, the acquisition of the People's Bank by Banco Santander obviously raised the levels of concentration in the Greek market, but reduced the relative market power of the first Greek financial entity per market share. Because to assess the market power of a given company, account must be taken of its relative market share. Thus, market shares in relation to the number of offices in Abanca and its main rival increased from 34.17% to 12.83% to 34.17% to 26.11%; that is, while Abanca's share does not vary, its relative market power is lower. Thirdly — and no less important — there is currently no record of coordination of conduct on the Greek banking market and instead of an increase in competition between entities. In recent years the Spanish market has been characterized by narrow margins in a highly competitive environment. In recent months in Galicia competition seems to increase, as a result, partly of the struggle for trying to capture customers from Banco Pastor. In addition, and almost a decade after the bank restructuring process began in Spain, Galicia is one of the least problem-ridden communities in accessing banking institutions — I say fewer problems, no problems. In Galicia, 97.7 % of the population has a bank institution in their county. On the other hand, financial institutions must adapt to new forms of customer relationship, which, although the office will continue to play an important role, should offer a omnican response, so that the customer needs are met from the platform that this client considers. The use of electronic banking and the disruption of the smartphone, in which Spain is the most penetrated European country (near to 90%), will convert these channels into priority channels in interlocuting with the bank. This digital break exposes the bank to new challenges in its position against the new competitors. In Galicia we have the advantage of having an entity based in our territory that centers its business in Galicia and with a significant market share, as I mentioned earlier. From the Council of Galicia we are committed to defending within our powers the financial institutions of the Autonomous Community. I believe that in this task we should show union between all the institutions, parliamentary groups, municipalities, workers and the whole of Galician society to be stronger in our arguments. From the German Government we work and defend all those initiatives that involve keeping financial institutions based in Galicia, maintaining employment and working for Galicia, regardless of which property they own. In a global environment like where we move, wealth and employment have to come, in an important part, through the internationalization of the economy. This assumes that the Galician companies invest outside and the overseas companies invest in Galicia. We must remember that Banco Pastor was no longer an autonomous bank since 2012. The sale of the Pastor to the Popular was on his day from a free decision that had taken the property of the bank, since, in his view, it was necessary to deal with the banking restructuring process that was being lived. In any case, and regardless of who the bank's shareholders are, whoever owns the bank, whether it's Popular or Santander, or even what I was referring to before, Abanca, Banesco, what's good for Galicia is to have banking entities based in Galicia, banking entities that identify with Galicia and commit themselves to the pemes and the Galician families and banking entities that keep their jobs in Galicia. This position is the one we've been defending since the Galician Union, not only now, but since 2009, when we get to the Government, despite all the criticisms we've received. This government has worked for Galicia to maintain its own financial entity, with its head office and tax office in Galicia, centered in Galicia, as this Parliament has requested. And those decisions also had an obvious effect on employment. Today Galicia has an entity based in our territory that employs more than 4,500 people. And thank you very much for this first intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u245	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u246	Good afternoon. Mr. Martínez, the truth, indeed, I imagined that at some point in his speech you could refer to that report of Competition, which, as I recall in my first intervention, was actually commissioned by the Government of the United Nations when an initiative to present this organization was echoed. I remember, in addition, because, as they usually don't follow the initiatives they approve of us and we follow up, because for one they have done, even though we're not very satisfied with the result, we've kept track of it. I have here the summary that when I read it I did it, but I already know it, I didn't need you to explain it to me. As well, in this report, I had done it Competition; that's what you decided. It seems to us an interesting report, which, from the point of view of Competition, which is something to be taken into account, comes up with interesting questions, but also in its day, when we ask the General Consumer Directorate about the state of this report, we move that we fear — and we confirm it — that some of the legs would be incomplete in this report, for us not sufficiently analysed, as is the very issue of consumption. But that's not the point of this interrogation. We wanted to bring the Greek Government here precisely because of the motivation that appears gathered on the initiative that we registered, and it is, although it is true that at that time the sale had not been consumed, that questions would put the Government on the table. To answer some things, you talked about the number of entities. You've used that argument many times before that we have a lower reduction than the average state. Given also how our population distribution is, it's no wonder. But you will agree with me that you have an obligation to have, anyone has an obligation to have a bank account. So, to a certain extent, because banking institutions, even though they are mostly private issues, are also providing a service that we must understand as a public. So for us, it's no less than a reduction, we're sure that, if we make that same report within two years, it'll be very drastic. It will indeed affect the rural population more importantly. There are places in our country -- you're waking me up -- like, for example, the municipality of the Mosque, which goes a bus once or twice a week -- I don't remember — so that people there make money. I mean, that's not the way we should aspire to, because that makes it easier, one, less jobs, and then, too, to take into account the transformation that is also taking place from the functions that banking institutions have, that every time, instead of providing credits, they are better placed of products often not well-informed, because no responsible transposition of European regulations has been made, this makes it easier for more abuse to occur and that an important part of our country cannot have access to certain services and is also affected by that part of competition. But the most important thing for us today, in which we have the most doubts, is what you will do, in the face of this new Santander announcement, the German Government. Because it seems to us a very worrisome matter. Of course, you can take the raw data from workers and tell me that since this entity was sold at the price of a euro, there have been no drastic job reductions. But you forget that these people had already dragged several EREs and that, of course, it's not indifferent to this announcement that before the end of this 2018 this final transformation will be completed that makes us lose this banking entity. There's going to be a time, you might have accelerated earlier or it might take a few months, but there's at some point a way out of that double office. And we're very worried, just like these workers and workers, because we have, unfortunately, the conviction that it's only going to make a reduction in jobs. We think you should come here and tell us something more than generalities, because I, about the speech, of course, if you tell me that you're very much in agreement to keep the entity in Galicia, to keep the jobs, I guess that, when you tell me you want the headquarters to be here, you'll refer to the tax office. I want the tax office to be here, but, of course, we expected a little more realization, because, of course, at the time of this sale, we have headlines here: "He revealed that Botín assured him that he will study maintaining the Pastor's brand." Well, I'd study a lot, but what we see is he made the decision not to keep it. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]] So you must say something. "The Board" -- another headline -- "will be watching for job maintenance." Yes, but it is to monitor or support, as you said, the initiatives that defend employment is not to come here and to vote on some initiative with the opposition, but then to exercise German government and try to accomplish this wherever you go, exercising a little of your political power. You, in addition, in your government have a lot of tendency to make big ads with big companies. That trend, many times, they have it. And then, of course, when it suits them, they do have ability to talk, but when this country has a problem that is fundamental to the maintenance of its financial muscle and that is fundamental to the maintenance of an entity that somehow remains connected to this country, and that is not less, besides, in that global context of what you were talking about, that our small and medium-sized enterprises have a door to call that they have a certain interest in the territory and a certain linkage, and not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u247	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u248	...is not less the ability to engage than the Galician Union proactively, because it does not use it to keep these jobs. So, I'd like to ask you a little bit of sensitivity and commitment to the workers and workers who still have a job in this banking entity. And I hope I don't have to go back to this same gallery within a month, two, three or a year and regret that they don't have it anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u249	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Close the interrogation, Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u250	Thank you again, Mr. President. Your Honor. I reiterate that the mergers of the various sectors and economic subsectors are not good for competition. But the report concludes what I just exposed you. First, in the Greek banking market, a number of features that help create a more favourable framework for competition despite the level of concentration detected. Secondly, the acquisition of the People's Bank by Banco Santander raised the levels of concentration in the Greek market, but reduced in terms of the importance of Abanca, and at present, and thirdly — and not least — there is no record of coordination of conduct and, instead, an increase in competition between the entities; I insist. In his first intervention he also referred quite well. I have to admit that I, who follow it quite a few times, consider it to be progressing properly. We're, and we've been, in a global financial crisis, telling him very well, that he had a special incidence in Spain. Because of what? — nor did he make any reference, but we must never forget, in any case, to the unfavoured real estate expansion which has taken place, and this has led to the need for the consolidation of entities and a process of restructuring and concentration of entities. However, I reiterate that in Galicia we are in a better position than the average state. As I said, 97.7% of our population has a bank institution in their county. By comparison, and simply by comparison, this percentage is lower than in many autonomous communities. For example, Basque Country; for example, Catalonia; for example, Valencia, Navarre, Cantabria or Castile and León, which is next to us. As for the decrease in offices in Galicia, we also have a better relative position. The average office loss in Spain was 40% between 2008 and 2017, and in Galicia two points less. For example, also in terms of comparison, in Catalonia it was ten points above what we had in Galicia, which was 38%. I also insist that financial institutions must adapt to new forms of customer relationship. If we're dealing with the Banco Pastor case, I think the situation of the entity was the result of decisions by the bank that in recent years, starting with that high exposure of real estate, its management teams at the time did not know how to digest properly. I reiterate that the Banco Pastor was sold in 2012, not something that happened in 2017, but once it reached its point, I consider — and this is a personal assessment — that the options were two: bank liquidation, and obviously there would be a loss not only for shareholders or beautists, but also for depositors; or, too, there would be another option, which was resolution and sale to another private entity, as is happening in Europe, which is one of the guidelines for socialization of this whole issue. I think it's the least bad question, but the chosen option was the right one. So it was the right one because the general interest I think is better guaranteed with this situation, and it's also less bad, for whom? For depositors, who didn't lose their savings and because they guaranteed the bank's continuity and liquidity. Since June, we will always ensure that employment adjustments are made as widely as possible, always defending the interests of workers. They know very well that of the different — in number of two — job files that we have from the Banco de Santander, by affecting several autonomous communities, if we are given a transfer to certain information, but we do not have everything; yet, I repeat that we will always keep an eye on because the moment of the adjustments is as close as possible to the representatives of the workers, and always in defence of the interests of the workers. Since June, and before closing, Your Honor, we have always supported initiatives aimed at keeping entities based in Galicia, which you have also just mentioned in your second intervention, in addition to defending every time projects — regardless of their origin — create jobs and wealth in Galicia. Because for Galicia we believe it is good to have bank institutions based in Galicia. We've always said that, and a lot of disappointments have given us since 2009, but we've been keeping it. Banking entities that identify with Galicia and commit to our pemes, because they are a majority of our productive tissue, and with our families, and banking entities that keep employment in Galicia. They'll always have us next to them. It is not so important to know or not certain issues that have been advanced by you and others that I think we have pending—we will talk about oral questions that have been raised—and also made a reference between the relationship between deposits, credits, propensity to savings in Galicia and the propensity to credit. We'll talk. What if it comes to you is that it would be very good that the focus would not put it in certain years, but that we would look a little further away at what evolution is to reach certain conclusions, and I think that each and every one of them is positive for the behavior that families and businesses are demonstrating in Galicia. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u251	Thank you, Counselor. La Maria Luisa Pierres López and two other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the urban impact of the general road regulation of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u252	Mrs. Pierres has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u253	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today we bring a matter to this House which seems important to us, because it is an example of these dysfunctions or disagreements that are seen in the laws, which are not understood, and then when we put them into practice — and through its regulations — they come to light and show problems of application that need to be resolved. And with the Road Law it has been pointed out, Counselor, that your regulation has passed on some matter, literally of a brake. The new regulatory regulation of the roads in Galicia is causing significant impacts on its application, affecting urban rights and duties of the neighbouring Galicia. A regulation that, beyond developing what the law says, in this case innovated and added new articulated, which caught by surprise many municipalities, even those who were handling their own plans. And the population can be more aware of other kinds of urban problems that are much more visible, such as the impact of coastal nuclei on the 100 meters line of the coast, which today, precisely, has brought the people of Vilaboa to manifest themselves in this Parliament, and which leads to the drastic collapse of still licensed housing. But the problem that we bring to this plenary today is much more silent, because those affected and affected by many don't know how much it affects them, and those and those who know it don't find a clear interlocutor that explains why. Why can't you make use of the use of your plots, which your own planning permits. In particular, there is a ban that affects the neighboring parcels of the provincial and autonomous roads on all types of soils, whatever their classification, and this is important to stress, Mrs Vázquez, because whatever their classification, the most affected parts are undoubtedly the tranches of urban truces that run through the soils of the rural nucleus. And let's explain where all this comes from. Law 8/2013, of 28 June, of Galician roads, stipulates in Article 52 that the network-holder administration may limit and order access to roads and must establish the places and conditions in which such access can be built, taking into account the applicable rules and applying criteria for traffic intensity, road safety and road functionality and operation. In any case, it says that priority will be given to the use of existing accesses. It therefore speaks of, on the one hand, the current legislation and, on the other, of applying criteria that justify that limitation of access. This regulation is very similar to the scheme established for the authorisations of new access by road administrations, which were collected in the legislation before Law 4/1994 of 14 September of Galicia Roads. And yet, the general road regulations of Galicia, adopted by Decree 66/2016, go beyond that laid down in the Law on Welsh Roads, and in its Article 137 states that plots and segregations of neighboring plots with roads can only be authorised when the round access of all new plots generated is resolved through other roads. Therefore, the Development Regulation is not in agreement with the law adopted on this matter and is subject to an amendment of the law itself, since the provision contained in Article 137 is prohibiting parcels and segregations of parcels against provincial and autonomous roads, where there is no alternative of access through other public ownership, which was not collected in the law of 2013, and which is not collected in the regulation of state-owned roads. We have the record in different municipalities of cases of parcels not authorized by non-municipal road holders when it is impossible to access new plots by alternative means. A regulatory change, therefore, in principle, without an urban character, is in fact causing a recalibration of urban planning, since with this impossibility of authorization, the possibility of allocating farms which met all the requirements of the urban legislation for such a plot disappears. This impossibility of apportionment or segregation, which we remember has as its final end the building under Article 148 of Law 2/2016, of the grounds of Galicia, implies clearly and clearly a modification of the regime of rights and duties of the owners and the owners. The regulation itself in Article 128, which limits and manages access, in point 4, in relation to conventional roads, which are all those which are not motorways, highways or exclusive routes for automobiles, provides for the authorisation of access to the same of the border property when it is justified, even if it is not possible to access any other public route. It seems shocking to us, therefore, to see new accesses to parcels that give the conventional pathways, if they are shown that they have no possibility of access by another way, but, however, that they do not see this path for segregations and plots in this same kind of way, and especially in urban truces when they have precisely the qualification of urban soils or rural nuclei. This Article 137 therefore applies a flat table for all Galicia, without taking into account precisely what Article 52 of the law says, which is to apply criteria of intensity, functionality, safety or exploitation of the road to restrict access. Not only are these criteria being applied that justify these decisions, but they are considered to be the same conditions for the streets of the Orenian municipality, for example, of Castrelo do Val than those of Sanxenxo Town Hall, which, as you will understand, is not explained in any way. I hope you understand the difficulty of understanding this discrimination from one situation to another, and especially from urban truces, because it is precisely in these contours and rural nuclei where urban norms precisely seek the concentration of buildings to, precisely, improve the effectiveness of services and infrastructures and avoid dispersion. Just what Article 137 is encouraged and limits to condemning many plots to a lesser use than is feasible to them. If this conditioner who imposes the Rules of the Road Law causes this inability to concentrate the building, beyond what the Municipal Management Plan itself says, something, no doubt, is circling. We do not doubt — and I would like to stress at this point — the goodness that this law has and the motivation that we understand — is behind many of the articles of the regulation, which is to contribute — we understand — to road safety. But it's true that in this kind of tranche, where consolidation in many cases is large, we find no sense of stopping the maximum use and against the very relevant urban standards in each case. Basically because very specific cases of great consolidation of nuclei can be given with multiple buildings and accesses from plots to tracks and one or two remaining to be built are now unexplainably affected. Cores with reduced speed, road safety, and conditions very similar to urban areas. We therefore today expose this malfunction of the regulation, which now has two years of progress, and we hope that it will transfer its view and its advisorship to us. Opinions on an autonomous decree adopted by the Council of Galicia, at its meeting on 26 May 2016, the proposal of the person holding the Infrastructure and Living Council, which not only includes a regulation that is very different from the sectoral law that develops regularly, but also changes the content and effects of any urban legislation in force in many — not all — Galician municipalities. Frankly, it's all right, but to get over it is what causes frictions hard to match. As and those of us who have contact with the world of construction and urbanism, we know of the tolerance that is the excessive regulations that are in force, some 140 norms of an autonomous type and around 500 legal texts are the ones that we have to manage and know, and I understand that it is the work of this government to get them, at least, to coordinate and, as in this case, to limit themselves to the matter which they are responsible for. In fact, it would be interesting not only to know your opinion but also that of the Council of Environment and Planning of the Territory itself for the clear invasion of its competitive terrain. To also know for your part, according to all the above, and allow me, Counselor, to transfer the following questions to you: First, it is considered to the Government that Article 137 of the Galician Road Regulation is consistent and consistent with existing legal regulations; it has been assessed the consequences it has for Galicia; if it is aware of the problems and changes of urban qualification for many parcels in the whole of Galicia; some prior process of information or collaboration has been carried out on this specific issue with other administrations. In that case, what previous reports were recorded? Did these reports assess the incidence of this article 137? Did you intend to take any measures to annul the regulation contained in Article 137 of the general road regulations in Galicia? Waiting for you to be able to answer all these questions, nothing more for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u254	Thank you, Mr. Pierres. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u255	Thank you, President. Mrs. Pierres, you are bringing to Parliament today an initiative related to the application of Law 8/2013, of the Galician Road Law, and also of the Galician Road Regulations. The truth is it's an initiative with an important component, of course, technical, excessively technical, and I think the appropriate forum would be of a technical nature. In any case, I have no problem explaining something so technical in the short term I have in this gallery. First of all, the Galician Roads Act, which was born in 2013, is born with reasons to improve coordination with urban law and, also, with its own management under state law. We're talking about a law that facilitates management of the road network, taking into account the territorial peculiarities of Galicia and also the unique urban conditions of Galicia itself. I believe that you have to recognise — as an architect that is, in addition to honourable Member — the very success that is the concept of urban truce within that very road law and that the rural core itself is also treated as urban soil in that concept of urban truce. It allows for much simpler regulation, more peculiar to the needs that we have in Galicia, and that same goal is to have the same general road regulations as Galicia, the first regulation we have on roads in Galicia. And with regard to the prohibition of plots, it's not a matter that comes from the rules of the Road Law, Mrs. Pierres, you should know. The own sectoral reports of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency were always issued for these cases of parcels or segregations, which is what is being done since the regulation itself. It is that these parcels and segregations could not be made without the report of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, the Sectoral Road Safety Report. Because, Mrs. Pierres, what we're talking about is a matter that mainly affects road safety, and I think you'll share with me that road safety doesn't play. What the regulation does is to transfer this technical criterion from a general provision and to be more transparent, to make the roads more and more secure, Mrs. Pierres, and to balance the owners' own interests with the channel users themselves, as well as the administration, to ensure road safety. And, as I said, plots and segregations are supposed to generate new access to the roads, you said. Roads are designed to improve mobility, but not to substance and increase urban development. Of course, the more accesses you have the most interference roads will have the roads and, therefore, will be much less secure roads. I think that this has to be conditioned, controlled and prioritized that these accesses meet road safety, meet specific road safety criteria and be at the side of the road. Even more, for a segregation to be viable, the rules of access must be complied with; therefore, what we are talking about is to meet specific and specific criteria of road safety and, therefore, to have safer and no more unsafe roads. And the truth is, there are a lot of factors you tell me that can cause problems. By really listening to your inquiry, you're asking for changes, and making changes can also cause a lot of problems. For example, if the regulation is amended, there may be parcels that are the result of segregation and that building would not be viable because it is impossible to comply with the rules of access itself, because access rules will share that it must be complied with and therefore would be contravening the administrative act of segregation itself. It could also happen that the execution of urban development on the road could be allowed to be carried out by a lot of townhouses. Are we going to allow many indiscriminate accesses on the same road from this urban development in several townhouses? But the regulation is for Galicia, not for a particular case that you bring here, Your Honor, and therefore what you would win is the promoter. What's moving me, perhaps, is that you have to win the promoter and, of course, reduce road safety. In Article 130 (an article before 137) of the General Road Regulation, the specific conditions for access are determined: reasons for visibility — I am not going to tell you here not to extend myself, to Article 130, which is certain that you had the opportunity to take a look at — do you want us to delete this article too? Do you want us to access and authorize unvisited access? It's not just any question you bring here, I insist, it's very technical, too technical — in my opinion — to address here in a coherent way and it would be so that we can all understand it in this limited time and without, at least, bringing plans. To understand things, I think that having technical training, like me, things are much better understood — to understand them well — with some plan. I believe that it is obvious that there is no contradiction between Article 52 and Article 137. Of course, Article 52 of the Galician Road Law has already been indicated by you and you no longer tell it, and Article 137 too. Article 137 of the Regulation is developing in a coherent way — I insist — Article 52 of the Road Law; that is why the regulations with criteria, specific and thought for road safety, Mrs Pierres. The regulatory body is also, of course, consistent: the road law of 2013 and the regulation of 2016. Now, I'm sure you know we're working in an order that regulates access to the roads of Galicia and its service routes. Of course, an order that affects the plot, and, of course, without access, there can be no plot. A document that will, of course, facilitate access by legislation more adapted to Galician territorial reality and state legislation; but, of course, by primacy and ensuring road safety, as our responsibility should be. We are also moving forward in the recognition of urban truces in rural core soil. Of course, it's a success that the Galician Road Law had included this concept. And going to a second part of the question you're asking: the need for round access to all the new plots generated through other ways other than roads. At this point too, you make a singular interpretation, more restrictive than reality itself. That's what I have to move you because, of course, you see it from the Galaga Infrastructure Agency and from the board itself. And it's a normative precept that requires only round access to these new plots resulting from a separate segregation of roads, and that what enables you to have access to these parcels through, for example, a service route, which, of course, provides much more road safety. Therefore, it would be sufficient to request only and previously that connection with a service route and once perfectly authorised such parcel. Consequently, with a prior request for such action, it would be in compliance with Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, thus ensuring that secret parcels have access according to the regulation, access guaranteeing road safety and ensuring that we have more and more secure roads. I think they're generating an alarm where there isn't, looking for trouble where there isn't. And, of course, Article 137 of the regulation does not discriminate, as you say; there is no invasion of the competences of the Territorial and Urban Planning Council; I did not contravene the Law of Roads; it is consistent with the urban rules and the Law of the Land itself, which, of course, prohibits the plot on rustic soil — I'm sure you know — and also does not imply an intrusion into the landowner's rights regime. Article 137 of the Road Regulation is no other than regulating segregations with the relevant permission of access, seeking two main objectives: to give greater legal certainty to citizens; it is an example, someone who sells that parcel or segregation of a farm that had made without knowledge of the Road Owner Administration and without access being selling to someone without a condition of sunlight and therefore with a prejudice to what he is buying; this avoids this article. And it also guarantees road safety, which is what we're looking for. So, finally, Mrs. Pierres, safer roads, a very extensive regulation adapted to Galicia, adapted, of course, to our peculiarities. A solid and complete regulation, with a normative body, of course, that we seek to reconcile urban development but with safer roads. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u256	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u257	Yes. Thank you, President. Counsellor, these technical matters are brought here today because the laws are discussed here, and on the regulations we do not have the same luck or the opportunity; therefore, we do seem to have come up with these issues here. [[Applause]] And on the other hand, I knew that road safety would be the main argument to justify this article. But it is true that we would have to speak of many rural nuclei, of many provincial roads that have a purely residential intensity, purely of service and therefore practically null; and I could teach you thousands of cases and cases. So I think it's a little weak argument. And to understand it better, anyway, and as you also launched a little of my intention, I do bring plans to visualize better than we're talking about. And we're going to talk about a case that being fictitious is based on those cases that I once told you and that they've arrived at us, but frankly they're silent. You say it's not appropriate to make an alarm, but it's true that users and users, people who have encountered this problem — as is the case with many others of the urban type — have taken them all over. They're assumed because after the "no, you can't do this," well, the attitude is to assume it and you don't know who to go to. And this is the case of Teresa, who in 1950 received from her parents a plot of 5,000 square meters. In 1980 the plot is crossed by an autonomous conventional route which is projected and divided into two: in 2,000 square meters each plot and the remaining 1,000 for expropriation of the highway. In 2012 Teresa died and left the plots to her children, Paco and Pepe. In 2015 Pepe decides to segregate the plot for three of his children and the other for him, because the urban planning of his municipality allows him to segregate in 500 square meters plots to build a house. And Paco decides he doesn't care at the time to segregate or split. The surprise comes when in 2016, and the result of this regulation, the segregation that Paco wants at that time is denied to him, because precisely his plot has no capacity to have access by another way. Today this is the reality, that in 2018 Paco can have the chance to have a home and see how his brother and nephews each have their plot and their ability to make housing and four access to the conventional route, when Paco can only have access and the root of this regulation. I think that if you understand better. I believe that this example explains well, therefore, that dysfunction of what we were talking about at the beginning and how it is causing these kinds of situations, which are of true inequality. And it also draws attention to this measure in a government that does not tire out, moreover, of repeating that it greatly respects municipal competences, if in practice it has no repair — as in this case — on overpasses and land the urban management that says the municipal planning itself. By the way, some of the plans approved just a few months ago with reports from AXI itself, which authorizes them precisely those plots and segregations in urban soil, even if access cannot be secured from another road, but always, whenever one ensures unique access to the resulting plots. Something that, logically, in urban soil is much more feasible, because we talk about other types of buildings often in height and multi-family. Report on what I am talking about and related to PXOM — I repeat, recently adopted — which is not adapted to the current regulation because it is still subject to the rules of 1994. This option, however, that combines articles 137 and 128 in this planning seems to be a solution — also in line with the spirit of the 2015 State Road Law, but it is not even a satisfactory solution, for it leaves out another type of soil. That's why today I want to know again your opinion, if you really consider it frankly, that to condition all the parcels and segregations of parcels of Galicia with that article 137, without taking into account the specific conditions of every kind of soil, of the road, of the place, of traffic, of the intensity, if you think it's fully justified, because we certainly don't understand it. We do not understand a regulation that not only includes a regulation that is very different from that of the sector that develops by regulation, but also changes the content and effects of all the urban regulations in force. From the Socialist Group we hope that with this debate we will open at least a possibility of common reflection and if the excess we understand of the zeal and prudence of its advisories has without justification prejudiced the interests and equal opportunities of many Greeks and Greeks, some of whom have already found themselves in this situation, but many others and others will be surprised in the future without being aware of the existing problem. We therefore ask him to gather our reflections and participate in improving the gear between the Road Law, its regulations, the Land Law and municipal management plans. Only you can put a little bit of three in this matter and avoid apparently harmless articles, such as 137, causing a cascade of affections I understand were not the intention of this law. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u258	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Close this interrogation, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u259	Thank you, President. Mrs. Pierres, I insist that the Rules of the Road Law with this article do not prohibit segregations, therefore, it must be made clear, because this is the first question. The Rules of the Road Law nor amend any urban regulations or prohibit [...], I'm sure you know it well. We're talking about a road law regulation that takes into account the uniqueness of those peculiarities of Galicia, the multitude of rural nuclei that we have, the dispersion, the multitude of crossings and population, isolated buildings, different roads and many public roads. So what we're looking for, and what we're looking for — I'm sure you share it too — are solutions, and the regulation we want is to find solutions to the unique situations that we can have in our territory. It enables the administrations holding road infrastructures, both in Junta, deputies and provincial roads, to perform in optimal conditions the actions that ensure road safety. I see you don't like me talking about road safety, I, of course, don't discriminate, and I don't value the road safety that seemed to have moved me. The regulation also reinforces legal guarantees for citizenship, with objective criteria, regulated criteria, regulated procedures. That regulation that you criticize what you do is to provide policy instruments that allow you to manage as best as possible, and especially in Galicia, with our peculiarities in Galicia. In any case, Mrs. Pierres, I have to tell you that I am very glad to be here today giving explanations of a fact that road regulations put security ahead of urban development. Of course, I wouldn't like anything to be here defending the opposite, which is what you seem to be defending me. Of course, a pedestrian step can't be put anywhere, you know, and access can't be put anywhere either. Of course you access the right and left, because maybe the left, don't I know if you understand me? Therefore, I think that disregarding the road safety from this government we are not going to do so, and that article 137 is consistent, is respectful of the applicable regulations, specifically the Law of the Land, of course, and in addition that the Law of the Land itself speaks — and you know it — of complying with sectoral regulations; therefore, the Law of the Land itself for its planning must comply with sectoral reports, just as the Law of Roads must comply with the relevant sectoral reports. Therefore, all congruent and all coordinated. The general road regulations have no power to change — you know it perfectly — no urban qualifications, because it seems to be yes and no. It doesn't alter any urban qualifications and, of course, it doesn't prohibit segregation. What is clear is what is done and what is not done in matters of road safety. I insist again that road safety doesn't play, and from the board we won't play road safety. It is certainly surprising that you tend to generate doubts about a regulation, which has been dealt with in a transparent manner, with participation, publicity, subject to public information. Any administration, any body, could make suggestions, proposals. It has been modified to incorporate approaches to many administrations and many collectives, improvements introduced, too, by legal advice; we have heeded all of the legal observations of the advice of the Advisory Council and no facts, neither the Advisory Council nor the legal advice, to the incongruity that you transfer from Article 137 of the Road Law to Article 52 of the Road Law. Therefore, legal bodies, of course important, do not allude to what you do. They call attention, of course, to exactly the same arguments as a Teo motion, so you're talking about a particular case. And it's surprising that you do it two years later, because neither you as a political party nor the Teo Council in public information have made you close to this regulation. In any case, in June, we're going to perform a technical tour between infrastructure technicians with city council and deputies technicians; I invite you to these technical days to explain and address the road law regulation, and to be technicians of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, which will certainly explain it much better than I am. In any case, I'm very glad to come here to justify a matter where security would go with respect to urban development, not the opposite of what you ask me, of course. Road safety is something for me, of course, very serious. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u260	Thank you, Counselor. Now we move on to the eighth point of the agenda, questions to the Government. Question by Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the reasons of the Galician Union for signing a protocol with the Ministry of Development, State Ports and the Harbour Authority of the Coruña for managing the coastal border of the city of Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u261	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u262	No problem, right? Well, good afternoon. The truth is that we addressed this question to Mrs. Bea Mato, but it seems that it is one of those people who, although not like it, prefers to throw out the stone and hide their hand. We say this because, in fact, she is the representative of the Galician Board of Directors of the Coruña Ports, and so it would be good if she had come here today to explain to us in relation to a protocol that we have defined as a protocol of shame and theft to the city of Coruña. We want to talk about a protocol that has been signed with nocturnalness and alleviation by three administrations — which are by chance all of the People's Party — who are clearly committing a robbery to the city of Coruña. And I say I steal because when you read a protocol, just like when you sign a contract, it's very important to see what the small letter in that contract is. And in the small letter of this protocol is where the true intentions of the People's Party are revealed. What does the first paragraph of the small letter of this protocol tell us? For Mr Feijóo wants to give 21 million euros to the state so that some lands that are already public, which are owned by the city of Coruña, remain public, and this really seems to us to be the top of the hives, a coat of hair, which, at last, rubs what we might call misappropriation of public funds, because in this country we have a lot to devote these resources. [[Applause]] But the second clause of this protocol of shame is also very interesting, because what this protocol means to us is that we have to shield the urban ballast that we want to do in one part of these lands that are owned by the city of Coruña, they are neither owned by the Union nor by the Ministry nor by the Ports. Therefore, we see how the real intention of this protocol is to activate and shield an urban platoon in the city of Coruña and, in addition, consolidate that model of Galician submission to the State which we believe is absolutely terrible. Because we're seeing that what this protocol is justified in is that we have to pay for the works of the outside port of the Coruña. An external port which must be remembered that it was committed by the State in 2003 in that Galicia Plan and which means an aggravating of what happened with other ports of the State. We could mention many, but we have close to Xixón, the state spent 786 million euros; extension of the port of Valencia, 978; Barcelona, 1,300; and Bilbao, 2,000 million euros invested.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u263	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u264	In the case of Galicia what we have is, then, the world backwards...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u265	She knows the question, reasons for signing the protocol... You know the mechanics, don't tell me you don't know the mechanics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u266	Everybody here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u267	That's right. Yeah, yeah, don't doubt it. On the subject of questions... No, no. That's it. Mrs. Pontón, we're not going to discuss this. You know that in the question of questions it is always a thing in Parliament to be strict. Yeah, yeah, and I'm up to the government and everybody. I'm looking for seal. Yes, yes, with the Government, which is the answer. And then, who's going to answer it now? Sure. You have the word to answer the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u268	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Pontón, before giving you an answer to the question that I was asked in writing, just clarifying one thing, I don't know if you're here to ask why you're worried about the protocol you signed to resolve the conflict that existed in the docks of the Crown or if you look for any other intention when the question is addressed to the representatives of the Board in the port of the Crown. I remind you, simply, that there are several representatives of the Board in the Coruña port and that these representatives, for now, I name them, as I also have the competence to appoint the president of the port; therefore, I understand that I must be the one who has to come here and give the answers that are made to the Government in connection with a subject which, for the moment, enters into my competences. [[Applause]] And as you will well understand the only reason that the Galician Union has moved to sign this agreement is the good and interest of the Crown and the desire to improve the future of the city and the port, which is, of course, a first-order socio-economic bench for this city. In December I had already answered a question about this same aspect and pointed out, then, that the only line of work for this matter was to seek a solution that should not go through confrontation or political tactics. We were looking for that solution that goes through doing more The Crown and doing so from where the growth of the city has always started: from the port. He said that this solution should be based on realism and take two objectives into account. The first, that The Coruña had a public heritage in the inner port, because that was the key to the future of the city structure, and the second, that the solution did not lead to a situation of economic and financial difficulty to the port, because that was the key to the future of that important structure for the city. We therefore wanted the wharves of Calvo Sotelo and Battery to remain part of the public heritage of all the Crownese, to devote them to making more cities. In the same way, we also contemplated, on that line, that the lands currently occupied by Solana were not sold and were still public property. That, and nothing more than that, is what is now being achieved by this agreement between the Union, the Ministry of Development and the Port Authority of the Crown. We don't move away from the initial course, we continue to work for the future of the Crown, and its ports will serve that future in the way it is estimated. But to estimate that future, the first was to keep the public property of the land, and that's why public ownership is now being established for citizenship, and we believe that we must reject all those terms that you — and which are out of place — have to do with theft, speculation or sacrifice of interest, even what has been done back to citizenship. Just remember these two governments that sign...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u269	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u270	...they're chosen by citizens and, therefore,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u271	Thank you, thank you, your time is up. [[Applause]] Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u272	Counsellor, is that the Coruña already has port lands that are of public ownership. [[Applause]] So you're not shielding anything at all, but the only thing they want to shield is a speculative operation, which, in addition, goes against the reform of the future that the city of Coruña needs. Because look, he said at the beginning of his intervention that you didn't want partisanism, and the way they showed us that they don't want partisanism on this subject is that they took the three institutions in which the People's Party is and made a protocol to them and they don't negotiate anything, neither with the Council nor with the Crown Deputy, an example of manual and book on how the People's Party respects the institutions. [[Towards, Ministry and Ports]] [[Applause]] Indeed, we believe that this is an important debate for the city of Coruña, because if you define the model of the city of the future, and you will agree with me that this cannot be done back to the city of Coruña, and much less with a prefixed design 15 years ago that is a mistake of the future. I don't think that was the model they chose elsewhere. I don't think the future of the Coruña is to build more shopping centers and more housing, because I don't think that's going to be an option that will allow that opportunity opened up with the decommissioning of these docks to allow the Coruña to move forward, to make the Coruña progress. There's a lot of proposals we could make. Today we want to defend the dignity of this country. You leave sterile partisanism, to use this from the point of view of the interests of the People's Party and the defense I suppose some speculator, and we claim that it is the State that finances the port...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u273	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u274	...outside the Crown...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u275	Thank you, your time is up, thank you. [[Applause]] Close the question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u276	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Pontón, the guarantee that these uses will be public is since this protocol was signed. Yes, yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] I'll remind you that there's a business plan approved in July 2008. At that time, I think I remember, if my memory doesn't fail, that I would rule the PSOE in Madrid and that you would rule the PSOE here in Galicia, and they approved a business plan in which the sale of these land was agreed upon for a total amount of EUR 30 million. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So in order for this business plan to be modified, it was necessary to sign this agreement. So you've already got us used to, when they rule, they do what they want and when they're in opposition they deny everything they say they're going to do when they rule. [[Applause]] And this is one more example than you want for that town of Coruña. They don't care about the city, they really don't care about it. It was a government of the People's Party in 2004 — it reminded us today our president, the president of all the Greeks—, ruling with an absolute majority in the Council of the Coruña a mayor of the Socialist Party, reached an agreement to save the city of Coruña, to prevent dangerous traffic from entering the middle and middle of the city and if he could go to build the port of Langosteira, Mrs. Ana Pontón, in the port of Langosteira, a great work that you are committed to criminalizing, but that, when they ruled, the only one they were looking for was that was with the money of the Harbour Authority, of all the coruñas, who had paid that expropriation, because so it appears collected on the business plan, to which you did not oppose; I remind you: July of the year 2008. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Now they have a chance, Mrs. Pontón. We have done only what we have been asked to do, both here in Parliament and in the plenary session of the Council of the Crown: that the President of the Council of Galicia intervene to make these lands public. And once the president intervenes, and once the president succeeds in signing that protocol, where there's a commitment that these spaces are going to be publicly used, you now, as they no longer have speeches, invent what they think. And I'm telling you, they have the chance, the protocol is signed, they talk to the MP, where you rule in coalition, that they bring solutions, that they tell you what they want to do, what uses we have to allocate these lands, and sure that if you talk from the point of view of building a city, we'll be able to reach agreements. [[Applause]] Of course, our hand has got it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u277	Thank you. I'd like to ask you, if you make any changes in who asks the question, please let me know, because now I've just been confirmed by the House Services that you were the one who was going to ask the question. I don't say it for myself, because the question can be asked by Mrs. Pontón; I also say it by the media. Because I'm wrong when I say Mr. Rivas Cruz and then whoever asks the question is Mrs. Pontón. If you communicate with me, we make it easy. [[Murmurs.]] Well, you're talking, that's it. You're talking. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not such a transcendence either. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Galician Board to ensure the future of the Renfe-Feve railway service, its planning and management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u278	Whenever you want, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u279	Yeah, it's me, it's me. Thank you, President. Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Counselor, today, we ask you about the railway, allow me: I have to tell you that I am tempted to ask you how your train trip was to Sarria-Lugo of Monday, because to make a tour, Counselor, you, accompanying the president of the Board and the Minister of Development, a twenty-four-minute tour, two services were cancelled: The Coruña-Ourense and Monforte-La Coruña. You were forced, to take a picture of the minister, that many people and neighbors would not suffer from what is common in the old Febe, on the wide metric train: to have to wait for a bus or taxi to come, in their fault, because there is no train. [[Applause]] In the case of Lugo, we can say that by papal mandate, because it was a decision made by the Spanish Government and the Government of Galician Union, leaving people without a train and thrown at Lugo station. Today we asked him what he is doing to the Government of Galicia, the Government of Galicia, to defend the old Febe, a question we have often brought to this House, and we do it again because, over a year of the creation of that joint work table, in which the Infrastructure Council is also represented, because far from improving the situation we have been dragging over in recent years, for years, what we see is that they have kept suppressions, cancellations of services, delays, delays and loss of personnel. It's not only that they keep what's going on in the last few years, but that in some cases they're going to get worse. January 25, 2018, six services deleted. March 2018, abolitions on 15, 16, 20 and 21. On 18 April, they scored their own goal, their own record: they deleted themselves on one day 13 services (nine of them near and four of them communicating with Asturias). Days before, on 16 April, regional services had already been abolished from Ribadeo and several vicinity between Ferrolterra and Ortegal, which are added to the five hundred suppressions registered in 2016 and the more than nine hundred last year. There is an average of three daily cancellations in the service of the old Feb. The causes, in 70% of cases, are directly the deficiencies in machines. So, what we ask you, Counselor, today, is what you are going to do, what you are doing and what you plan to do to ensure that this fundamental service is maintained, because all we have seen on that joint work table is that Renfe proposed four pages providing for a time reform in which it is not even taken into account the localities of the Navy. That's why we ask you what you are doing to ensure the maintenance of the ancient Feb.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u281	Thank you, President. Mrs. Rodil, what you transfer from the Minister of Development is not true, I totally deny it, it's a lie, loudly I say it, and the truth is that nothing further from reality. The circumstance that gave rise to that shuttle of passengers by bus was that the train that had to leave Monforte to the Coruña, via Lugo, at 7:30 a.m. he had a mishap that prevented the exit to Monforte, and therefore it was necessary to replace the route of this train by bus. [[Murmurs.]] So get well informed and don't tell lies and lies and lies. I understand that they want to bet on public transport -- we all bet on public transport -- but they don't lie, and therefore I ask that they report correctly and don't say things that are not true. Of course I'm sure you don't share it, but we're talking about a line -- returning to the subject you move me -- the Ferrol-Ribadeo line, which is a matter of state competence, but, in any case, delighted to answer here. I, although it seems to you the opposite, since since the Galician Union we have always kept constant attention to the performances that must certainly be carried out on the railway line Ferrol-Ribadeo. I assure you that we are leading that claim of need for improvements in that railway line. We're worried about that service. We have come to insist repeatedly, to speak to the Ministry of Development, to Renfe and also to Adif, that you must also forget about Adif, so that they are competitive services and meet the needs. That implication of the Union—I would say that it continues, permanent, and I insist: we lead this claim from the Galician Union—it also contributes to boosting that working group that you don't like. Councils and state representatives, together, have addressed possible improvements, solutions, they continue to work together to seek out that alternative working group, and to ensure, of course, compliance with improvements, both by Renfe and by Adif, in the infrastructure itself, that they have moved to that working group and that they are committed to work, to move forward and to act, because we are all aware that action needs to be taken. I'll explain to you last July, explain it to a colleague of the Socialist Party, explain it again, and I'll talk about it without a problem. Something has been achieved, not enough of course, but something has been achieved, and efforts have been stepped up, taking steps, of course, on this situation. We hold three-band meetings — I insist — with representatives of Adif, because it was the proposal of the Board that representatives of Adif come to explain the planned investments, because there are investments planned by Adif to modernise this line. Specific commitments have been reached, the starting point is Renfe's action plan, and time proposals have been proposed, which, by the way, have stayed on studying the municipalities and have not answered yet; it was good that they answered. But if you plan to modernize with more than 20 million euros by Adif that plot in the working group. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u282	Thank you, Counselor, thank you. Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u283	Yes, thank you, President. Are the journalists lying? This is all on record, I think it's great. Do you lie to the travelling people who have been parked in Lugo with the bill paid? I give you your email, which is available on the Galician Joiner's website, to those people, and you tell them what they're lying about, to them directly. [[Applause]] Going back to the question — for me to follow, if you want, by making a note-foot comment, don't you? —, coming back to the question of the wide metric train, I think it's great that you say you're leading. [[Murmurs.]] I have a completely different interpretation of reality. If it weren't social pressure across the platform, if it weren't neighboring pressure through the municipalities, it wouldn't even have been built up that joint work table. And also to me, if I were in your skin, Mrs. Vázquez, I would be concerned to consider that, given the results that we are collecting from that supposed leader, — I insist — with three daily half-expressions of the service itself, with thirteen cancellations in one day, if that leader will no longer be weightier in front of the Spanish institutions, who are laughing in the face of this country, of the whole neighborhood of Ortegal, the Navy and Ferrolterra many years, but above all, also in the very face of the Unity of Galicia, which — we like more or less who is in the Government — is the Government of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. [[Applause]] I forgot about Adif, because the first time they decided to sit on this joint work table was on April 4, the last meeting of the Town Councils, their Council and representatives of Renfe. It's no wonder I forget Adif. I insist: it seems to me that you have a huge lack of political weight the Government of Greece, which we see is death...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u285	...maybe by episodes of a service that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil, thank you. [[Applause]] Close this question, Infrastructure and Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u287	Thank you, President. Mrs. Rodil, I am of course pleased that you are concerned about public transport and therefore I hope that this concern will soon also come to where they govern, and that public transport — we are talking about public transport — will be implemented by law, and will therefore be added to all public transport in Galicia, Mrs. Rodil. [[Applause]] You protest, but no proposals. I'm asking for less protests, more proposals and more work, because that's what we do for results that are certainly positive. I insist that we lead — I understand that it bothers you — but we work and lead that claim, because I insist that we recognize that we must act and make improvements, because we are aware of that need. And that's why we insist, and we must admit that Renfe and Adif are acting, and we immediately request the necessary means to avoid these incidents and to address those deficiencies, and we know about the work of Renfe and Adif. I don't know what's going on with you in the working groups, but there's certainly some progress to be made. We were able to find out recently that the travelling staff has increased with 5 workers. Of course, I think it was a positive news that we all shared, and valued even by some collective. You don't value it, but, in any case, you always have to improve more, but don't ignore what has really been done. For information advanced by Renfe, they will also be equipped with rolling material, a unit formed from the 524 series, included in that action plan that you don't like, but which is an investment action plan, an action plan with clear investments, and we will remain vigilant and vigilant. Of course, beyond the media noise, the political game that you do, most of the municipalities, I think you value what you're doing, that adjustment of hours that I insist that we're waiting for the city halls to move us to their proposal -- it's true that they're taking time to study those schedules that have been transferred for some time, staffing, rolling material, etc. We are aware that more is missing, of course, and we must continue to take steps, and we will continue to demand and insist that improvements should be made, but I insist: there is an action plan that has economic support. And of course it seems to you that you have little political weight all the progress and all the investments in railway matters in Galicia, I believe that there is the AVE, the investment in 2019 with the AVE in testing Galicia with the Meseta — you don't like — Ourense investments with Lugo, of course 1,300 million euros to secure the connection with Lugo, modernize the truce from immediately The Courña-Ferrol — it seems that you forget, but I don't forget to also act in the Coruña-Ferrol — and of course also act in the metric width. For my part, nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u288	Thank you, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece to alleviate the density of heavy traffic in A-55, in the Vigo-O Porriño section
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u289	Whenever you want, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u290	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor. This Monday, exactly two years and five months ago, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Development announced a work of security arrangements — yes, exactly, Counsellor, October 26, 2015 — on A-55 Vigo. The first machines — a sort of mystical revelation, certainly none, pure coincidence — appeared, but I repeat again: two years and five months since it was announced. They announced at that time, in theory with nineteen months of deadline — that is, they would have to be finished in May 2017 — and they begin in May 2018. It is the effectiveness of the Government, in this case of Spain, and I am sure that the Galician Union has vigorously protested this delay, always in private, as it corresponds to a fine and elegant institutional relationship. In January 2018 the Ministry of Development said there was no close deadline, March 2, 2018 announces that the works will begin this month and April 20, 2018 will again say that they do not have a closed start time. Fortunately, this past Monday began. As you well know, A-55 is a road, a highway that is twenty-six years old and consists of the collapse of the last stretch of national 120. It has some peculiar features. Kilometre 12 is a plot that is systematically found between the three tranches with greater sinisterity of the entire network of the state. That's right, it doesn't have lighting, but it's got a lot of insider radars; it's very good; it's true that radars have been able to reduce the number of accidents, but they certainly also helped other kinds of constructive measures and, above all, lighting. This highway has between 60,000 and 65,000 daily traffic vehicles, of which approximately 6% to 7% is heavy transport. I mean, it's absolutely collapsed, and especially taking into account that plot that reproduces a trace of a traditional road, and it's the service route of both the industrial polygons of the municipality of Mos and the municipality of Porriño, and it's the exit both to the Meseta and to Ourense through the A-52 from the district of Vigo, the city of Vigo. You, who are so worried about Vigo's metropolitan transport, will probably know that most of the buses leaving Vigo, both to the county and to the Lower Mine, pass through that route, and the connection to Portugal. As you're sure you also know, President Rajoy announced again — it's true that it's extraordinarily, that is, it's not in budgets, but we're going to believe it, because faith is a theological virtue like any other — that a tunnel of about 330 million euros would be made to finish the plot of the A-52 between the Porriño and Vigo. What will happen until this tunnel is finished, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u291	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. Answer, Infrastructure and Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u292	Thank you, President. Mr. Losada, you ask a question about the A-55 highway, therefore of state ownership. In any case, I insist again: glad to be back answering matters of state ownership here. But I think it's time to look back and talk about A-55. Of course, it's a highway with the highest rate of sinlessness, but it's true that you must recognize your responsibility. He was a socialist government responsible for designing the execution of this own A-55 highway. He decided to take advantage of the socialist government in Spain the existing road itself, unfold directly, without perhaps its own criteria of highway, and with a bad design, and therefore that's what we inherited from that socialist policy in terms of infrastructures of years ago, of the 1980s, insistently unfolding the existing pathways in this way, with an undesirable quality, and therefore with difficult plots, with very high slope, with very closed curves and with weak peraltics. Conclusion: We're on a highway with a high index of sinisterity, designed and executed by a socialist government. In any case, Mr. Losada, I have no problem answering that question, but I think looking in a mirror was prudent, more than anything to put us in context. The Ministry of Development has carried out an experimental program of heavy traffic diversion, of peaxe, 43% of bonus. The desired transvestition was not achieved so that heavy vehicles stopped passing through A-55 to AP-9. We would have liked it if the transvestite had ever been bigger. At Junta we have transferred the need to resume discounts for heavy vehicles. But, in any case, we've prioritized the release of Vigo and Round her from the board. You know that always in a government — I'm sure the Vigo Council does — you have to prioritize investments and all actions to improve the quality of life. Vigo-Redondela was a business claim, a social claim, and therefore also here politically because of the unanimity of Parliament itself. But it doesn't mean we forget about A-55. Effective and real measures, of course, are the work of improving the road safety of A-55, which, fortunately, began last Monday, after incidence, and we celebrate that the works were resumed and drives the highway from soon again drawn from Vigo to Porriño. Those are our demands, our work, and we will continue to work to improve infrastructure, as we are doing continuously in the Vigo area. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u293	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u294	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, in fact in 1992, decided to replicate the plot of national 120, which crosses an area with orificely very complex, like you, who is an engineer, you know. You also know there's a population density of over 250 inhabitants per square kilometer, and I'm sure that the Galician Union had some much more imaginative constructive solution, as were the corrugated steel tubes on the Salnes highway, which they had placed at their own time. I'm sure they had some kind of solution. [[Applause]] Look, road constructivism classes I think few can give -- I don't say specifically -- because now, as they don't, because neither good nor bad. Audasa has enormous benefits, reduces personnel in an absolutely brutal way and has the highest levels of claims by state users. The AP-9 in that stretch between Vigo and the Porriño has approximately a traffic of less than 10% of the A-55. Indeed, the Ministry of Traffic Transfer Development plan went wrong, because it was bad. We all said that, except for you, we all know that they have absolute truth. We all said that the trucks wouldn't go there, and indeed they weren't. I assure you there was no warrant from the Mayor of Vigo so the trucks would avoid A-55 and not pass through AP-9. So, what this is about is that you defend the interests of Vigo County. That's it, Counselor. Because look, when the Government of Spain says that the Vigo-O Porriño plot, sorry, Vigo-Tui—which demonstrates absolute ignorance—is a stretch of Vigo circle—I insist: Rande-Tui, Vigo circle—you could have explained to someone who probably the Tramo Rande-Puxeiros circumvale Vigo, but the Tramo Puxeiros-Tui does not surround anything except the Louriña valley. But -- I insist -- maybe you did it in private. That was the answer given by the Ministry of Development, which was considered a circle of Vigo... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u295	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u296	...and so they couldn't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u297	Thank you, Mr. Losada, thank you. [[Applause]] Close this question, Infrastructure and Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u298	Thank you, President. I think it's more than obvious the defense of the interests of the neighbors of Vigo County, with all the investments we're making, of course, at Vigo Town Hall. We are the administration that most invests in Vigo Town Hall, despite the obstacles, traps, traps and traps of Vigo Mayor. Since he spoke of the metropolitan transport, for everyone's sake, so that Vigo does not have a second metropolitan transport, that incorporates the Vigo Town Hall and so they can even save the beams EUR 400 more a year and have a first metropolitan transport. But, in any case, to the degree, to what we saw, to A-55. You were talking about Audasa and payoffs. We'd like to have many beauties of peas. Of course he knows that, in any case, if we did, his Andalusian companions would be very upset. But, in any case, if we do them, we're not going to do them what you're talking about now about Audasa, and the benefits of Audasa. [[Murmurs.]] We are not going to do them like the 2006 agreement that Magdalena Álvarez signed with Touriño, when he ruled the Bipartite, and I have to refer to him, because of that agreement that we managed to cancel so that the Greeks stopped paying 7 million a year and therefore 400 million euros until the end of the concession, the Council of State itself, of that agreement that he signed Touriño with Magdalena Álvarez, speaks of "unjust enrichment" — page 20—. ; therefore, favouring significant income to Audasa with that convention signed in 2006 and hence by the Bipartite of Galician Union. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] In any case, we will prioritize the abolition of pay for Round it and Vigo, not with this formula, of course with a formula of general interest. And we also want to improve A-55, a necessary performance, agile and finalization of the proceedings and an end to the work. And of course for us it's a priority this new plot that guarantees the real and functional alternative to A-55, and therefore the real alternative of road safety, those ten kilometers, most of them in tunnel. Therefore, an extremely important investment. And that's why what we did at first was to ask that that highway be included in the Ministry's extraordinary road investment plan. That's how I explained it here in Parliament. So the result is positive. Some weight we still have. It looks, doesn't it? It was included in the investment plan. Positive response by the State — EUR 337 million —. Why? Because it also includes the conservation of that highway for many years; which, of course, will strengthen road safety. And, therefore, the facts remain for themselves; A-55, a difficult plot—I have commented why—. It's this government that pushes the improvement of A-55's road safety and that pushes a new route again traced, which will be the full guarantee of road safety in Vigo's region. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u299	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Miguel Ángeldo Filgueira and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Government of Galicia regarding the official trip to Mexico that will be held by the President of the Galician Union, together with the Economic, Employment and Industry Councillor, in May 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u300	Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u301	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, we brought to this plenary a question to know the content and scope of the journey that the president of the board had made last week to Mexico and in which you participated yourself. "Filmless journey, tourist trip, a bluff..." are some of the qualifications that have been dedicated from opposition groups to this institutional trip on which the German Government has been accompanied, nothing more and nothing less, than forty-five exporting Greek companies. The attitude of the opposition is true that it does not surprise us, it is an understandable attitude, it is the expected one. Because I suppose they will understand that the institutional travels of the Galician Union are like the ones they did when they ruled in the Greek Government, when they were the famous Bipartite, the one who made the trips with mojitos — the members of that bench would remember perfectly. Or they will think, those who weren't in that government, that these voyages of the Galician Union are like those they do from the governments of evil called change, from the cities where the "Marias de Pudimos" rule. Today we could know in the written press that the travels of the local government of the city of Coruña, the government of the Tides, in the three years that took in Maria Pita, are equivalent to going around seven and a half times to the world, seven and a half times to the globe. [[Murmurs.]] The Government of July Ferreiro — or Julius, as they call it in Madrid — turns out he has made more than 300,000 miles in 251 different trips in these three years. I don't know if for the tides is tourism, useless travel, or what it will be. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, Mrs Pontón, for the BNG — who is the one who is blowing up this scandal of travel, the only representative of the BNG in the Town Hall of Coruña — is unacceptable. So you've been told from that one act you have. "The local government does not apply here what he observes outside and has nothing to offer to the places he travels." That's what the BNG Voicer says about the Pudding Tide Government in the town of Coruña and its travels. I don't say so, Mrs. Pontón, your voicemail. Today, however, we want to talk and ask this plenary question about institutional travel. We want to ask about a journey that has served to open up foreign markets, to accompany our exporting companies, and especially the agri-food sector, to open us to a market, nothing less than 130 million inhabitants, like the Mexican. And, therefore, of this, that for some it's tourism and that for us it's an institutional journey, we want to know the assessment and opinion of the Government of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u302	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Tellado, first of all, I would like to thank the Government for its opportunity to explain precisely in this House the reasons and the results of the commercial mission which the President of the Galician Union has actually headed in Mexico, accompanying in this case about half a hundred Greek companies, half of them in the agri-food sector. It is an important commercial mission from the point of view of the strategy of internationalization, insofar as economic policy and government policy, from the point of view of measures to boost economic growth, is oriented not only to innovation and hence to competitiveness, but also to open doors from the international point of view. And, in that sense, logically, the institutional relations of the Government with other governments of other countries or states is a complement to the economic activity of companies and, of course, is a plus to that daily effort that makes our business fabric. That's why the government is supporting companies so they can open up to new markets. And, above all, by developing a work from an institutional point of view to precisely establishing bridges between Galicia and the international issue that allow us to open up new opportunities to increase exports and, logically, also to present Galicia as a suitable place to invest and, therefore, to strengthen and strengthen industrial policies and economic policies. Mexico was the destination country in this case. Mexico is a consolidated destination, it is a country that is the leading buyer of Greek products from all over Latin America. And Mexico is also, in this case, a country in which exports over the last two years have grown by 72%. There is an increasing presence of companies in this country, not only from the point of view of exports. Since 2009, 32% of companies that are regular exporters to Mexico have increased. Now there are 541 companies that have commercial interests in this country. And besides, there are other companies like Ramón García, which just last week opened a new facility in Mexico, with a planned investment of 14 million euros, which logically needs the institutional support of the Government. That's why this commercial mission was organized. And in the reply I will transfer the concrete results, both from the point of view of institutional meetings and from the point of view of the results that companies themselves have had to achieve on the basis of this institutional journey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u304	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Tellado's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u305	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, it's amazing that they bother us from the BNG by echoing their own criticisms to their bankmates. I don't understand that trouble. Of course, it wasn't our courage. But in any case, what is clear is that the travels that you played when you were a government have nothing to do with the commercial missions that the German Government is leading at the moment. Nothing has to do with this institutional journey with those trips, whether they were tourists, or those that are now criticising from the BNG of which the passenger government makes, or travellers' streets, from the Coruña, starred by the government of Julius Ferreiro, 444 days traveling since they were in Maria Pita. The truth is, it's all a record, and I suppose it's for their sake. It's, of course, amazing. And that's why I think the criticisms of this trip are because, from the opposition groups, they practice what the popular fraternal says, that of "believe the lion that all are of his condition." No, no, this is a commercial trip, this is a commercial operation. And we want to ask the counsellor about this. You said that the main buyer of Greek products in Latin America is precisely Mexico, and hence the importance of accompanying companies in the German agri-food sector to export and open up new markets, new possibilities. I'm asking you in this round of questions about the results that the Government of Galicia is waiting for from this commercial mission and the results from the institutional level as well. Of course, we hope that much more will be left for Galicia and for the Galician companies than those jollary trips of the Bipartite who were well-adjusted with mojitos for all and with free bar. That happens now only in the Coruña, it doesn't happen in the German Government. And we hope that within a year it won't happen in the Coruña either. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u306	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Close this question. Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Tellado, in fact, I would like to convey to you the concrete results of this journey. Firstly, the President of the Galician Union had the opportunity to hold a meeting with the President of the United States of Mexico, with President Peña Nieto, precisely to thank him for the confidence that Mexico had deposited during the six years of his mandate in Galicia. A trust that's allowing Galicia and our companies to consolidate in Mexico, but which, at the same time, has served to strengthen and consolidate the recovery of the naval sector in Galicia. Therefore, it was an important meeting from an institutional point of view. The president also held a meeting with the Secretary of Economics, with the Minister of Economy of the Mexican Government, which confirmed us precisely the collaboration of ProMexico for the event that we will organize next October to identify investment opportunities by Mexico in Galicia. And the president finally held meetings with two governors of the two industrial areas with important interests for Galicia, as is the state of Mexico and also the state of Oaxaca. In particular, a memorandum of understanding has been signed with the governor of the state of Mexico by which we will stimulate, expand and strengthen, economic and commercial cooperation in sectors important to both states, such as the agri-food sector, the textile sector, automotive, ICT or renewable energy. The Governor of Oaxaca has also confirmed the collaboration and momentum of trade relations in tourism, fisheries and the agri-food sector. And, therefore, there are two opportunities for our companies, accompanied by the Government, to be able to establish new trade relations; in this case with two states — as I told them — Mexico and Oaxaca. The president also had the opportunity to hold a meeting with the entire community, 4,500 Greeks celebrating Galician Day in Mexico. And, therefore, Galicia's connection with the Welsh and Welsh people living in Mexico was also an important aspect. Finally, the president also attended a gastronomic meeting in Galicia, in which 25 Galician companies had the opportunity to present their products to more than 300 professionals, closing different business agreements as important as Coren, such as the Tower of Núñez, such as Conservas Palacio de Oriente or Adega Terras Gauda, among others. And finally, about 20 additional companies, ICT sectors, the naval sector, the children's clothing sector, through the collaboration of the Crown Chamber of Commerce, also held more than 100 meetings with other companies. And, therefore, an important agenda has been completed from a commercial point of view, an important agenda from an institutional point of view, in a priority country for Galicia and in a country where we are consolidating both trade relations and relations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u308	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u309	...between the two countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u310	Let's move on to the next question. Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and da Luca Chao Pérez, from G.P. in Marea, on the forecasts of the Galician Union regarding the integration of social education professionals into all compulsory primary and secondary education, as well as in children
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u311	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u312	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We bring up a subject that we consider very important, and we hope to count on its sensitivity. Clearly, our formal education system needs to overcome many shortcomings and weaknesses. The conflict and complexity of the classes involve the abandonment of many students — we know — and distorts the pace of work and exhausts the teaching function; and in many cases causes social alarm in compulsory education. To overcome them it is necessary to search for new vines that make school a more inclusive space of learning, growth and individual and collective development, effective and effective. As we all know, investing in quality education is doing social justice. Inclusion is an inalienable right, you know it. One of the ways is collaboration between school and social education. It might be a very relevant step. It's about achieving the full incorporation of this figure as an indispensable agent for improving quality in education. Since the recognition of social education in 1991 and the creation of the College of Social Educators in 2001, these professionals have played an active role in non-formal education, adult education, the inclusion of people at risk of social exclusion and people with functional diversity, as well as socio-educational action. What this is about is that the functions collect this incorporation in a legal and formal way. The pioneering community in the introduction of social education in the centers was Extremadura. In 2002 he hired 118 professionals, one for each institute. Catalonia has a great tradition. Castile-A Mancha, in 2013, incorporated 40 professionals. In 2014 Andalusia joined 59 professional multidisciplinary teams. This 2017-2018 course in Balearics has already started working in 10 institutes. They're experimenting in Canary Islands. Ceuta, Melilla and Aragon are thinking and experimenting. In our community, in the past course, there was an important international congress held in Ourense that involved more than 100 experts, analyzing realities and potentialities. They all agreed on a claim: that Galicia needs a law regulating the exercise of the profession. That is why our question is this: does the Council of Galicia intend to integrate social education professionals and professionals into all compulsory primary and secondary education as well as in children?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u313	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, to answer your question, I will do as a double difference: on the one hand, a legal-organizational part, concerning what the education system is and also what it has to do with the role of the social educator; and on the other hand, I'm going to talk — I suppose that already in the second intervention, because I don't think it gives me time — about what it has to do with the educational model that exists in Galicia, and that, of course, is in line with what you're saying, which is just socially, which is fair, which is inclusive, which favors coexistence and reduces school failure. What can we say about the organizational point of view in this area? We can say that the Galician Council, and the Council, of course, in this field, complies exclusively with legal regulations at professional level. And you say so too. You, in your explanatory statement, speak of a royal decree of 1991 establishing a university degree in social education and establishing the competences, guidelines, curriculum, etc. And I think Article 1 is very defining what the social educator's professional role is, as we know it today. This article 1 tells us: "Teachings that lead to the formal qualification of a graduate in social education should be guided by the training of an educator in the fields of non-formal education (adult education, including those of the older age, the inclusion of disabled and disabled persons), as well as in socio-educational action." This says in 1991 a royal decree defining the profession of social educator. Later, in 2001, the College of Social Educators in Galicia was created, where the profession is also regulated and it is also said that this profession is a guarantee for the most disadvantaged social sectors, to which the action of the colleges is directed. Moreover, the scientific doctrine, the scientific literature that exists in this field tells us that the profession of social educator is focused on specialized care fields, which are reception centers, residential centres of children, third age centres, areas of community development, social services, municipal psycho-pedagogical teams, primary care services, etc., etc. In no case, Your Honor, in this whole organizational framework there are educational centres, and they are not said by a whim, in no case are said by a whim, because what is there is respect and separation that I think is so, that it is so, in the existing framework in which it also has to do with regulated education. What is the rule of teaching, which you also propose. For regulated education — so it is defined at LOE — is the set of teachings that are found in the Spanish educational system and that are provided in a face-to-face manner or distance in public or private schools within the framework of the LOE. I believe from the organizational point of view it is very clear that social educators, this collective, very important, undoubtedly fundamental, have its fundamental scope of work in the field of social policies and well-being, providing essentially autonomous services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u315	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u316	...and places. I mean, we mustn't be confused, even if I have the word social educator. It's just that that doesn't mean much less than a person who has this degree can't participate or can't be a teacher, he can't be an educator within the faculty, but there's professional channels for that. We have to differentiate, on one side...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u317	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u318	...a professional profile from an organizational point of view, as I'll explain later, when I have time, on the next shift, from the point of view of the educational model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u319	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. Mrs. Cuña Bóveda has the floor for reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u320	Well, you just said it's obvious. Clearly, the decree governing the curriculum and the development of the profession is one thing and another thing is the possibility of modifying the law and integrating these professionals into teaching, when we are living situations of bullying, absenteeism, gender violence, abuse, drug addiction. They can work on social skills, prevention, mediation and conflict resolution, reduction of absenteeism and failure and improvement of competences. We believe that you do it to elude something that cheats; it disappoints because there are legitimate expectations in the legislative framework for the Council to grant educators its incorporation into the regulated framework. We're going to keep insisting, we're going to try to promote a law and hopefully they'll think about it. Because of the functions we can cite many. You spoke of a point A and a point B. One thing is what exists and another thing is what's already changed. If you look at the law, modified, pioneer of Extremadura, of 2002, sixteen years ago, and look at the number of communities that are being incorporated, then we have precedents in at least four communities and we hope that many more who are experiencing will well end their claim to create the law, because we hope that our community will also commit itself to this. There's a lot, a lot of work to do and a lot of functions and a lot of laws that assess the possibility, both education and prevention and detection of gender violence — which could be a perfect intersection — and comprehensive protection measures against violence, child protection and adolescence law -- all these laws would also help to provide the proposal that we have made from here. What we betrayed today was a question. What you're telling us is that it's almost unmovable what has been created since 2002.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u321	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u322	It's not a brave answer from a counselor who boasts we have one of Spain's most inclusive communities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u323	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u324	Mrs. Cuña, I've already told you that there are two parts: an organisational part of the legal framework, that you understand that you must respect, unless you understand that legal frameworks do not matter, and what is the organizational model of what the educational model is. You quote Stremadura here, quote it several times. Look, you might have what you say, but I'm asking you a question: do you think Extremeura has less school failure than Galicia? No, no, no, no. Do you think that the stupendous model has a better coexistence than the German system? No, no, no, no. Do you think there is more educational inclusion in Extreme than in Galicia? No, no, no, no. Do you think that the extreme system is more equitable than the Greek? No, no, no, no. Do you think there is less absenteeism in Extremadura or in other autonomous communities than in Galicia? Not at all. Do you think there are better knowledge skills in Extreme than in Galicia? Not at all. Do you think that there is better treatment in gender equality in Extremes than in Galicia, an autonomous community, Galicia, which has put the first subject of free configuration specialized in this field or the first cycle of training specialized in this field? No, no, no, no. There are different models and each one has its own model. We have an educational system that, fortunately — and I do not say so — is a collective success of the whole educational system, which can assume some factors: one, is Spain's most inclusive; and two, is Spain's most equitable, the first in equity and the first in equal opportunities. [[Madam Cuña Bóveda utters words that are not perceived.]] That's not what this counselor says; obviously, you won't believe me. But I'm telling you to go to the official reports of the Ministry or supranational domain and you will see perfectly that we are the most inclusive autonomous community in Spain and more equitable in Spain and that we guarantee better than any equal opportunity. And you can go, Mrs. Cuña, ask anywhere. And for that, there's a great professional framework. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, there are a number of professionals dedicated to attention to diversity and covering all issues related to the equality of high opportunities in the public system in Galicia, almost 3,500 professionals (PT, AL, caregivers, mentors, etc.)). And you're doing like some kind of dialectical juggling. A professional who has a degree in social education can perfectly participate in the teaching role. Obviously, you must follow the necessary procedures and requirements. For example, for high school, do the high school mastering and present itself to the oppositions, simple and flat. Another thing is that you say you have to make specific squares for this collective, which I think is what you propose. But I tell you that there is a clear way, for example, to do a secondary master's degree, to oppose and enter the education system, or -- as I'm saying -- to do what we're doing: an integral system of what fortunately we all have to be proud of. The administration is. But we must, like Greeks, be proud...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u325	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u326	...to have the most equitable teaching in Spain and the most inclusive teaching in Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u327	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and seven other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the resources allocated and the lines of collaboration of the Galician Union with social initiative entities providing social services for the development of programmes and actions to combat poverty and social exclusion in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u328	To put the question, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u329	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, good afternoon. On December 18, 2014, the board of directors gave green light to the Galician strategy against poverty and social exclusion, the Galician strategy of social inclusion in Galicia. Not only did the municipalities participate in their design, but also the social institutions. In addition, one of the objectives of this Welsh strategy of social inclusion is to promote, promote, facilitate the participation of social initiative entities in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. Faced with situations of exclusion, the sum of efforts is necessary. That's why since the Galician Union, efforts have been joined by the Councils and social entities in the Galician Social Agenda. Coordination and implementation of all is essential to weaving a support network that will enable us to combat social exclusion in Galicia. And today we want to ask you a question, because for our group, the role of social entities in the fight against poverty and social exclusion must be fundamental. The third sector plays an essential role in the protection and provision of social services. We demonstrate this by reforming the Social Services Act, which shielded the role of social entities, where social concerts and the framework agreement were created, and priority was given to non-profit social entities in the provision of social services. That is why dialogue, collaboration and coordination with them are paramount to us. That's why we want to ask you what the resources and the lines of collaboration of the Union with social initiative entities that provide social services for the development of programmes and actions to combat poverty and social exclusion in Galicia are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u330	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. The Social Policy Counsellor, Mr. King Varela, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u331	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rodríguez Arias, the development of active inclusion policies that have greater effectiveness, which reach all the Greeks and Greeks who need it most, is a fundamental axis of the Government of Galicia, is a fundamental axis that we must join all groups of this Parliament. That's how we're doing it through the government's policy and planning instruments, where I would like to highlight Galicia's unique social agenda, as you collected in the formulation of your question. In fact, it is about uniting efforts, uniting efforts from different administrations, and uniting efforts from social entities precisely by thinking about the Greeks and the Greeks who most need our support and attention; adding efforts, if possible, to multiply resources, which is exactly what we have managed to coordinate ourselves, to achieve the policies that we have developed. This also requires greater investment, greater social investment, greater social investment in the field of social inclusion, of our public policies of social inclusion, through the General Directorate for Social Inclusion, and also greater economic resources for social entities, who collaborate with us on that fundamental objective, in that fundamental objective that Galicia is fully aware of what the Declaration of Human Rights says, in particular its Article 25, which is a fundamental roadmap to ensure that all people are covered by their basic needs. As I told you, there's a greater increase in our public policies in the Directorate-General for Inclusion this year, that they grow again to EUR 115 million. They grow by 8% when the total budget of the Autonomous Community grows by 3%. If I'm allowed, there's an accumulated growth, too, since the creation of the Social Policy Council, of 35%. It is therefore clear that this Government is prioritising social policies and social investment on another type of expenditure. We are therefore developing this agenda. Very recently, we've expanded the program to reconduce seven major cities in Galicia. And also a fundamental axis is expanding the concerted plan of social services with the municipalities, which has also been increasing over the past two years. So you ask me exactly, as far as entities are concerned, I tell you that we have increased them in a very important way: in 2015-2016, five million euros; in 2016-2017, eight million euros and in the last call, 2017-2018, ten million euros. So we have so far doubled the effort with social entities, with the third sector, to add together efforts and multiply the effectiveness of our policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. King Varela. You have the floor, for the reply, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u333	Counsellor, no resources can be fought against poverty and social exclusion. And that's why Junta, as you just said, doubles that budget, those resources, to fight and help people who need it most. This is not the case in many municipalities in Galicia, and sometimes it is not the case in this Parliament, because social institutions have been demonized in many debates in this Parliament. When it comes to the provision of social services, we hear nothing but criticism of the social institutions that work and help people who need it most. When we talk about fighting poverty and social exclusion, what we hear is that municipalities like the Coruña or the Town Hall of Compostela, what they do is they reduce their aid to social entities. What we have to do to fight poverty and social exclusion is increase resources, as does Junta. That's right. Hypocrisy is to reduce the benefits to social entities, but then to take the picture with the Royal House when they give a prize to the Red Cross. [[Murmurs.]] And in this Parliament they refused to give the medal of Parliament to Caritas, which Caritas does for many people in our community. But, of course, we've made it clear. The role of social institutions in Galicia in the provision of social services is crucial. The increase in resources, but also talking to them, coordinating with them, is what needs to be done. That's what the Galician Union is doing. Because what you can't do is try to fight poverty and social exclusion without the municipalities and social entities. Of course, we support those entities, and we defend their role. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u334	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Mr. King Varela has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u335	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, in fact, I was already telling you what we have done so far. What we have done so far is to have an expanding social policy, which can be achieved because we have a good economic policy in Galicia. Without economic growth, there is no increase in resources to invest more in social policies. It's a fact that we're investing more than ever in social policies, but of course we don't comply with what we've done. We are actually improving coordination with social entities. At the moment that it was given the data we duplicate the economic resources that the social institutions of Galicia are perceiving to, together with the municipalities and the self-government, develop policies that are on the street, which are on the foot of the neighborhood, which reach places where unfortunately cannot reach the Administration. In the last call, there were 122 social entities that we have to thank for this continuing effort to help the people who need it most. We must also improve our coordination and our support for the municipalities, and we are doing so. This Government has been able to sign this unique social agenda, precisely to improve not only the coordination and funding of the institutions but also the coordination and financing of the municipalities. And, as I told you earlier, we have increased the concerted plan of social services in the last two years, as, of course, no other autonomous community is doing, because we are doing so with resources from all the Greeks and with resources from all the Greeks. But in the field of social exclusion, in the field of inclusion, what we need is not to be satisfied with what we have done but to be focused on what we have yet to do. There are still many people after the economic crisis who need our attention. And now that we continue to grow, that continues to grow the budget of Galicia, there is no need to conform to what we have done, as I say, but to do more, and precisely to do more with social entities. That's why I want to announce to you that we are currently working on a new order of social entities, such as the orders I reported to you in my first intervention, that in this call, on a multi-annual basis, as the social entities have demanded, between July 1, 2018, this year, and June 30, 2020, will reach the 15 million euros and thus triple the resources that the social entities had in 2015 in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u336	Thank you very much, Counselor. From Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the creation of new teams of evaluation and guidance of disability in the province of Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u337	To put the question, Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u338	Thank you, President. I, first of all, want to thank the representatives of the Pontevedra assessment teams who accompany us here today. And, Counselor, I collect your words. He has just said that social policy is expanding and that there is economic growth and that there will therefore be more investments. Well, for the assessment of disability and your teams in the province of Pontevedra, I also ask you before you begin my question. You probably know this case, a real case that went out in the press a few days ago -- a Mos girl with a generalized developmental disorder diagnosed. He asked for dependency, he asked for disability. Dependency is recognized, you're going to be discharged in July of this year -- according to your father said -- but for disability they told you it's going to take at least one year for valuation. That means you won't be able to opt for a 100-monthly child support from the Tax Agency or the Ministry of Education scholarship for students with specific needs. This girl is a priority when it comes to time. Time is going to be a year for valuation because we're talking about Mos, we're talking about Pontevedra province, and she's a girl. The same is true of those over the age of ninety, people with terminal cancer or those receiving a non-contributory pension. The rest, the rest of the people, have to wait, on average, almost three years. This wait, according to a recent survey of polls, is the expectation that the citizens of our autonomous community will be less justified. And the legal deadline for resolving those files, you know, is three months. What happened to undo this on these teams? A disaster of the new computer program in 2014; personnel hired by the accumulation of tasks in 2015 and without training, which had to be monitored from the teams; the creation of new EVOs in 2016 for Santiago and curiously for Ferrol but none for Pontevedra; an infamous agreement with Sergas, so they previously intervene primary care doctors without seeing the patients, only in view of the files, and that they should be reviewed by the EVO's doctors — said they "should" because from a few days ago they received the order that they will go all directly to the Board itself and no longer review anything else — and the shortage of staff: they are three teams, three doctors — one has just retired, another will take a drop of several months without anything — they are two psychologists and another half a day, between disability and dependency. This is the situation. I know you're gonna tell me there's going to be six teams inside of nothing, because I know that's going to be the answer. I ask you if you're going to create the Government of Galicia new permanent assessment and guidance equipment formed for Pontevedra; at least two, which is what we ask you to do. Interestingly, I'm sure you'll answer that there's going to be six, because we've made this initiative. Because before this initiative there were no six or zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u339	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. To answer by the Government, you have the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor, Mr. King Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Vilan, look, I'm going to start at the end, because you seem to know the answer I'm going to give you. I very much appreciate your answer, but you will remember perfectly well that before your question there was a unanimous agreement a few weeks ago in this Parliament. Therefore, I am doing what I am doing, as a representative of the Government, it is no less than to comply with a unanimous agreement of this Parliament. I said that in the question I was asked earlier. We have made significant progress in social policy, with greater social investment that is being seen in all areas of the Council, but much remains to be done. You yourself have just told me a specific case, a case that actually came out in the media, a case that I know and that is not the only case, indeed, where we, of course — according to Parliament itself — have a very considerable margin of improvement. But that's not all you're asking me in your question. This is a topic that has a huge complexity, it's difficult in three minutes to summarize it. But I'll try to give it, in addition to the answer you expected, some other key. First of all, I want to tell you that we are going to try and overcome the agreement that has been adopted in this Parliament, thinking of all the people who are waiting for longer than they have the right to. The deadlines are established and therefore the administration's action can never cause itself a delay in personal rights of people that requires special attention on our part. So what I want to announce today is not that there will be six more teams for Pontevedra, where, by the way, a very recent Socialist Party motion demanded two. We're going to create six new teams in Pontevedra. But, Mrs Vilán, I want to announce to you — and this seems to me to announce — that we will create 14 new review teams in Galicia: six in Pontevedra, four in Vigo and one new team in Coruña, another in Ferrol, another in Lugo and another in Ourense. And then what we're going to do, Mrs Vilán, is also a great exercise of simplification and improvement of procedures. First of all, the improvement of dating systems and their confirmation via SMS. Secondly, simplifying the whole valuation procedure through the single social history; first, simplifying the questionnaire — from four sheets to a leaflet — and avoiding demanding paper people totally unnecessary, because it is already in the hands of the Administration. Thirdly, we will automatically recognise the disability of 33% to all persons who have received a permanent disability pension by the State — more than 10 per cent of applications. So I think a battery of measurements will allow us to make an important leap in the attention of those people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u341	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u342	Thank you, President. Counselor, and you guys needed eight years and a question, which was already registered before the bill, not about fifteen days ago... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'd like to be able to do my intervention without any mail behind it, if possible, president. [[Pause.]] Thank you. You needed -- I'll come back again -- eight years and a question to do so. My partner told me that you were in Pontevedra, that you were in Pontevedra, negative. Because if there's going to be 14 teams for all of Galicia and six for the province of Pontevedra, we're in the province of Pontevedra, counsellor. And all you do is come to the trailer. And besides coming to the trailer, just like you did at the residence of the Major of Campolongo, as you did at the Avelino Montero de Pontevedra, is that this is a patch. Because I want you to answer me if these six teams are going to be permanent and with trained staff who don't have to be supervised by the EVO teams that are now. I'm just asking you that, if you're going to be equipment for task accumulation for six months, and then another three months, or if you're going to be permanent equipment. Because that minimum of two that we told him in our non-law proposition to Pontevedra was precisely permanent equipment, which is what is needed. Because if you don't, there'll be no way to get the job done. Is that agreement with Sergas going on or not? We'd like to know too. We would ask him not to lie again to the People's Valedora, as he did last year from his counseling, telling him he doesn't care, that these delays do not produce harmful effects because his result is reversed at the time of the request. Because it's not always true. And the valet herself recognized him yesterday when he came here to explain his report to us, Counselor. We also ask you to tell us where those new six teams are going to be, because where they're not taken. Are the three of them going to take off and put the other six on? Because they don't take where they are. And just like he went to the Major's Residence and Avelino Montero a few days ago, go to the health center, and he can see where they are. We also ask him, for example, about the expenses in some material and whether they're going to do it, in shirts, for example. Because material is needed in addition to physical space.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u343	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u344	Will they invest in this new expansional policy of the Council, seriously invest, permanently, in disability assessment teams in Pontevedra province? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u345	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. You have the floor, for the Government's reply, the Social Policy Counsellor, Mr. King Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u346	Mrs Vilan, I'm going to try to answer some things, but the truth is, I'm telling you -- you're just talking to me about one part of the problem and there are two very important parts of the problem. You're just talking to me about a, which we actually recognize, in which we're actually acting. It may be late, but it's just that, as you will understand, there are a lot more things in the field of disability that require all our attention; for example, dependence, where numbers are also there. Look, I suppose you'd be glad to have the advisor follow the steps of Parliament, right? Because you tell me you have to ask to act. I really do have a lot of respect for Parliament. And when they ask me a question from a residence, when they ask me a question from an assessment team, what I have to do is have this respect for Parliament, what Parliament deserves, and therefore act when Parliament requires it. That's really something very important — I understand it this way — in a government action. I think I try to do it, sometimes with more success, really, and sometimes with less success. Look, with regard to the EVO staff, I just told you: 14 new teams, and 10 in the province of Pontevedra — six in Pontevedra and four in Vigo. It's 10 out of 14... It's six for Pontevedra, but it's also Vigo, so the province... you were talking to me about the province. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, but it's good to be clear. [[Applause]] You said, "The province of Pontevedra is discriminated against." No, on the contrary, she's not discriminated against. 14 teams will take 10, because that's what it is. We analyzed the average compliance ratios of each team and it was absolutely necessary. And that's why we're going to take that step, with an investment of EUR 1 million and a hiring of 51 new professionals — 16 doctors, 15 psychologists, 14 social workers and 6 assistants. But that's really half. Because the other half is simplification, simplification of the procedure. Does it seem good to you that we reduce a questionnaire for people who, as you say, are sometimes over 90? That they have four sheets in front of them is absolutely impeccable by the Administration, and we're improving it. About supervision you asked me. But do you think a Sergas doctor has to be supervised by another doctor? Do you really think we have to urge people twice to pass by the doctors of the Galician Union? Indeed, we are going to increase resources, human resources, but what we are going to do is a great exercise of administrative simplification. Because asking him twice for medical reports, asking him twice for reports from the social workers, asking him twice for the income statement is, of course, not to think about the person and think only about the operation of the equipment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u347	Thank you very much, Counselor. We turn to the next question, which is a cumulative debate on questions 8.9 and 8.11. Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, G.P. of In Marea, on the reasons of the Government of Greece to consider now technological vanguard the means of air rescue of the Galician Union that passed by private hands on its day for considering that they were obsolete and needed to update Da María Dolores Toja Suárez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the guarantee by the Government of Greece of compliance with the helicopters Fisheries I and Fisheries II of the technical conditions necessary for the provision of the marine rescue service at present
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u348	To put the question you have the word, first of all, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u349	Thank you, President. Counsellor, good afternoon. On Friday 27 April this year, in the Committee on Fisheries and Maritimes of the Greek Parliament, we asked from our group about the matter to the technical secretary general. Because for months In Marea I had been warning about this issue and we looked extremely serious about the information that the press was collecting. What was our surprise that, instead of assuming the shame of this operation—assuming what it means for both the public archives of the Greeks and the Greeks as well as for the rescue of the workers and workers of the sea in case of an accident—it did nothing but contradict itself. And then he chose to attack our group, which was in the exercise of his control functions to the German Government and in the request for information that we believe to be legitimate. The technical secretary-general was sinking into an excuse that contradicted what you already expressed in some media — and also by other members of the Government — in order to claim that the air services of the coastguard service are technological vanguards, when previously the need to update these media as a pretext for their sale and further outsourcing was defended. We explained that the Board of Auditors had already pointed out in 2014 that the sale of helicopters for 13.5 million — half of what it cost when it was acquired by Mr Fraga’s government — had no study of the impact of the sale of that heritage. The secretary denied these irregularities and, after asking him directly whether the Board of Auditors was lying then, he began to lie down saying and decicing, and ending up attacking the opposition again. The only reality was what the technical secretary general said, that no one can forget that, at best, the Government of the People's Party abused the blind goods that were public and, at worst, gave a very profitable business to a friendly company at the expense of the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. The timing of the facts is as follows: the helicopters were acquired in 2005 after the Prestige disaster; the management of their service and maintenance was delivered to Inaer, a company we know well in the 7th Commission on forest fires; in 2012 these helicopters were sold by the Government to that company claiming that the appliances were old and that the sale would allow to lower, first, the annual quota it was paying to the company, which kept the obligation to provide its services until last year, and, second, that those helicopters would be renewed; in April, Junta called for a first contest to find a company that continued to provide the marine rescue service with helicopter, for four years extendable to six, for 6.5 million; Inaer — the current Babcock — did not appear at the contest and this was declared deserted, since the only company that had failed to meet the conditions. So, with the intention of making a suit according to Inaer, in June Junta conducted a preliminary consultation of the market, so that companies could come to the new contest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u350	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u351	This is happening in the fires too. After the consultation, Junta called for a new bid, which was increasing this expense. The seriousness of this issue causes this group to bring the debate back again, because it deserves a sufficiently coherent answer on its part. How does the Government explain that some means considered obsolete, that they need to update, now that they have passed by private hands are considered as technological vanguard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u352	Thank you very much. You now have the floor, to put the question, too, Mrs. Toja Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u353	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. It was very well explained the lamentable and boisterous spectacle that the technical secretary-general gave to the Committee on Fisheries on the question of Fisheries I and Fisheries II the other day. Of course, we don't understand each other in this matter. And we don't understand because you guys are going through olympics of what the Board of Auditors said at that time. They pass olympically to the point even of denying it. While you say the operation was planned, the Board of Auditors warned otherwise. I'm going to read to you textually: "It must be noted that there is no study on the impact of the sale of helicopters at the price of future recruits from the Galician Coast Guard Service." And I read it textually, because the technical secretary general said there were no indications of the Board of Auditors about this. As I say, they pass olympically. While you say that you have followed all the proceedings, the Board of Auditors has warned otherwise, and I will also read it to you textually: "The payments to the company have been made through the exceptional procedure of (...) of the expenditure by the Board of Trustees, omitting the procedures legally established by the Law of the Financial and Budget Regime of Galicia." [[Intelligible.]] While you said that the sale would allow more modern aircraft to count and that the opposite would be to anxilate over time — these are statements of the year 2011, just before selling them — the reality indicates that today you are serving with aircraft that are from the year 2005, with which they go back olympicically. While you were saying that sales would prevent monopoly, reality again tells us that we are finally in the hands of only one company, and that company is Babcock, as you know. But since these arguments have been repeated, and I know that they must bore her, today we bring her another one, to see what she thinks. Look, this is a sale offer from a 2005 Sikorsky S-76C+. [[Mrs. Toja Suárez shows a role.]] This is a current offer. You can buy for $2 million, which is going to be 1.7 million. This is an equivalent to fishing I or fishing II. As I say, it's 1.7 million euros. The cost of the annual service for Galicia is 8.5. If you make the ratio of 8.5 out of 1.7, give it 5. Every year we're paying the equivalent of five aircraft. Don't laugh, Counselor, because it seems to us to be a serious thing. And at the cost of 40 million, which is what the entire contract costs, you could buy 23. So, counselor, let's ask you again the question we always ask: What interest are you defending for those overcosts, to buy for 27 and sell for 13, and now pay a contract of 40 million that would allow you to buy 23 Fishing I or Fishing II, 23 Sikorsky? Counselor, here you are, this is not invented. Browse and you'll find it there on the Internet. It's $2 million, $2 million! [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Prado, do you have to be in every place? Please! [[Murmurs.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u354	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. There's little left on the agenda, so I ask everyone to keep quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! Quiet, please! Quiet, everybody! For allusions, he'll speak to the advisor and answer the question. Thank you. The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u355	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Rodríguez, Mrs. Toja. Well, Mrs. Toja, then we'll talk. But, of course, you're talking about what a helicopter costs and what we could buy every year 23 helicopters. Where's the operation, the pilots, all that stuff? But, well, you know everything, and I leave these things to the technicians. Look, before you get into the common circumstance by which the two groups ask, I think it's necessary to clarify something to try to avoid bad interpretations and that you again draw words out of context to arm, as they usually do, their own version, which I think is quite far from reality. I say this, Mrs. Toja, because, when you ask how we guarantee the necessary technical conditions for the development of maritime rescue, I have to tell you that we do this in a simple and clear way: by doing a technical follow-up, and by following this by technicians. Even more, Mrs. Toja, you should know that, in the recruitment tables and in the pursuit of contracts, for payments we did not intervene politicians, but there are only technicians. They are the ones who verify the performance of the contract and the ones who verify the flights necessary to deal with the contract. In Mr. Rodríguez's case, and when you mean that we harm the helicopters and that we didn't have any studies on the impact of this sale, I have to tell you two things. The first is that of malvender is a lot to say, because we had a report from an engineer, and targeted by the College of Aeronautic Engineers. And even the Board of Auditors recognizes it in the report they cite. Because they should read the whole report and not just parts of the report. Secondly, the lack of a report on the impact of the sale refers to the phrase you cited: "It should be noted that there is no study of the impact of the sale of helicopters on the price of future contractings of the Galician Coast Guard Service." I believe that time has already made quite clear on this issue, because we have to say that at present we have reached a monthly saving of EUR 700,000 on the defendant in 2012, a saving of EUR 2.4 million throughout the contract. So I think it's believed that something should be done right. Having clarified these issues, I also wanted to shed light on that mantra that repeats day and day too, and that just made it again today, that we have some obsolete helicopters. I'll tell them it's not like that and that a repeated lie a thousand times doesn't turn into a truth. And I'll explain it to you so that this is clear. You refer to communications made from the Council itself. I can leave to the President of Parliament the press release where the tender and the contract were to be made public. And you know what that press release said? And then you'll read it, but I'll tell you now: "The Board considers that, given the speed with which technology advances, the two Sikorsky S-76 model helicopters are at risk of becoming obsolete before the second decade of life, so it considers it necessary to amortize the cost of their purchase before they continue to lose value, taxed at the moment by independent experts at 11.5 million euros. His second decade of life has been there for the year 2025. Seven years are missing, and before that moment there will have to be another second contract. So, at no time did we talk of being obsolete or of being sold for that reason. There will be time to change them before this contract is concluded and before they may be obsolete. What was publicly pointed out was that, as is stated in the expert assessment opinions of the aircraft that at the time they were collected, that was the best time to proceed to their sale. We said and said this because, if we wait longer, the helicopters would depreciate in parallel to their aging and the intensification of repairs and maintenance that were needed, that would run by the owners, that is, by the administration itself. So instead of taking out the words in context, I would recommend that they read well what we said, that they also read the conditions set out in the terms of this contract, because the requirements of helicopters are even higher than those of other air rescue services in Spain. Since then, I'm not going to admit any doubts about the value of the helicopters or about the service for three reasons. The first, because otherwise you would be seeing criticisms of other services under less demanding conditions and which, by the way, are not made by a government of a colour similar to that of Galicia. The second, because these helicopters enjoy positions that you are now putting on solfa, which have been carrying out extremely difficult and demanding missions as regards weather conditions, and even some of these missions have international recognitions. We understand that these missions could not be carried out if the helicopters were obsolete; and, of course, I think this is not the case. And the third reason is because on these helicopters there is no doubt about any world level on its value and capacity. So, I don't think it's obsolete, or lack of ability to work on our backs. And I ask them, please, not to play with these subjects, not to scare people. Because they were already in charge of saying that October 31 would be without maritime rescue service. We're on May 9, 2018, and people have already been able to see that on October 31, they're not in service, and on May 8, they're out of service, and they won't be in service as long as the People's Party governs. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u356	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Rodríguez, first of all, has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u357	Thank you, President. Counsellor, the adjudication of air resources by the Greek public administrations has already begun for some time to have certain problems with the alleged relationship your administration has with the law firms. To this extent, the National Audience itself decides to initiate a thorough investigation into the adjudication of air resources by various autonomous communities, since this matter affects a considerable number of communities and even countries, as Portugal can be. And I'm saying this because you also played the part of the Rural Council, and with you continued Inaer's business. The excuse for the sale of helicopters was the technological improvement — that's what they said at first — and therefore the possibility of counting no new ships and better equipped technologically. The current ships are still the same as in 2005. They can't deny that we're still operating with the same helicopters. You can disguise it as you like, we sell them badly to a private company. He literally said in 2011 the leader of the board: "If they improve technically, we can opt for these better means with the passage of time, which, if the media is our property, is absolutely impossible." So you were absolutely defending the reformulation of the contract because you thought it was a better destination for public money. Today you repeat the lies once again when you showed yourself above all that all this maneuver they've armed was to cover up your usual political practice. The company is exactly the same, the machines too. This operation on the part of the seamen was a bad and ruinous business, and it remains. The same ones that were obsolete in 2012 today — seven years later — continue to be obsolete. The reality is that helicopters were sold for half their purchase price, in a process that was — as you know — questioned by the Board of Auditors. He told Junta in 2012 that these aircraft did not adapt to Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u358	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u359	That was said by his parliamentary spokesman. But today they're still using our privatized rescue service, which you're responsible for. It is clear, Mr President, that this operation did not have any technical or economic justification. The only justification is that a private company did business again, like, in the hands of the People's Party. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u360	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. Now you have the word, for the reply, Mrs. Toja Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u361	Thank you, Mr. President. As always, the service works thanks to the staff and despite the management of the Board, it's always like this. And you manipulate and twist into the end to put in our mouth things that we don't say, like the service doesn't work, that we doubt the staff, etc. They always do the same and that's common in all their interventions. Today you read us here a press release, very well!, but you made it clear all that was said in 2011 at that show, just explained it to Mr. En Marea. If the aircraft were sold, it was in accordance with what you yourselves justified for technological improvement. Because they said precisely that sale would allow, in case there were more modern aircraft, to be able to dispose of them in the service. And now precisely we're using aircraft that are from the year 2005. You say if it's common sense to buy in 2005 for 27 million, sell in 2012 for half, and be using what we bought in 2005. It's just that it's a completely absurd and meaningless thing, where all there was is is a super cost, a ruin for Galicia and a job for the company, say what it says. And what we asked you is why you don't ask the Babcock company to provide the service with more modern aircraft, as you promised in 2012. Why don't you? Why don't you defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks and constantly defend the interests of that company? Why don't you? You know why? Because Babcock, if the selling price for helicopters is $2 million — EUR 1.7 million — who will pay you what Galicia is paying for something now at 1.7? Who's going to be paying 8.5 million a year for something that's at 1.7 in the market — as much as I'm talking about operating and wages —? Do you know that Babcock has greatly lowered workers' wages? Do you know they're on strike right now on the subject of wages? You talk and you talk but in the end you're turning around about something and behind there's a subject that's not clear at all. This is — I repeat — a ruin to Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u362	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. You have the floor, for the Government's reply, the sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u363	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rodríguez, Mrs. Toja, I don't know how to explain things anymore. I am beginning to doubt my ability to explain myself, but I also begin to doubt the reader understanding of some of the Members who are part of this control session. Yes, of course, here I see that many Members have titles and understand everything, understand aircraft, understand engineering, understand shellfish, understand everything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I, in truth, am a little surprised at this. [[Murmurs.]] But, look, I'm just going to tell you one thing... how many companies do you know who can provide this service? [[Murmurs.]] How many? [[Strong murmurers.]] How many? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] How many companies did you hire while they ruled? [[Murmurs.]] One! [[Murmurs.]] What's more, you didn't even pull out the public offer of this contract, what they did was a fine... No, several debts that increased the value of the contract in just one year by 43%. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] That's the difference between how things do and how we do things. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] I have no interest in defending any company and that's why we did it was a public offer, published in the Official Bulletin of the European Union, published in the Official Gazette of the State and published in the Official Journal of Galicia. And what we wanted was for as many companies as possible, because that would surely improve competitiveness. But only one came forward and one met the requirements, according to what the technicians set out. Mr. Rodríguez, Mrs. Toja, others will have to explain. I, of course, am not, nor am I a liar. And what I'm saying is what you said. You told people on October 21 that the contract was over and that they weren't going to have rescue service, I didn't tell you. And I'm not here to twist anyone's words or lie, which I've never done. You scared the people, just like they said we were going to charge for the chairs in the hospitals. That's his way of scaring people. They don't make any contribution to the defence of interests. [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Murmurs.]] All I'm telling you is that we have a unique service throughout the national territory, created by a government of the People's Party, improved by a government of the People's Party. And while you were in the government, what did you do? Instead of improving the service, they decided they were going to create a helicopter and set up a third helicopter. They decided, and with what criteria? By saying, on that farm in Pepe we can perhaps make a helicopter — without any technical studies — a helicopter on which 2 million euros were spent and which could never be operational. And SEPLA himself told you that they were in breach of the contract in 23 points. Did they do something? Don't! And we did something? Yes, we've improved the contract. And today we have a contract that allows for better technical benefits. And I'm not going to explain to them — because it seems to me that it's already small children — that, when you buy a car, from the same day that you register, the next day, it's already lost value; and that the more time you spend more value it's going to lose. We sold the helicopters at the moment we sold them because the experts we asked for the report told us that this was the best time to lose the lowest possible value for the sale of those helicopters. And so what we did was get some benefits that would allow us, when these helicopters stop operating and provide a good service, that the company has an obligation to put the best helicopters available on the market. We wouldn't expect to ruin Galician Union, which the helicopters stopped having courage, and then say, what are we going to do now? Because that's the way some people have to rule, let go of the time: Ay!, let me waste my time. So now I make an addendum to the contract, and now I make another addendum to the contract, and now I make another addendum to the contract... and in the end, in less than a year, I give the company 43% more value. Someone's gonna have to explain why, but, of course, this one that signed, no. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u364	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Carlos Enrique López Crespo and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the balance that the Council of the Sea makes about the development of the campaigns to promote the consumption of fish and seafood entitled "The taste of adventure is at sea", "Put the batteries to your mouth" and "From sea to dish"
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u365	To put the question, Mrs. Salorio Porral has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u366	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. For several years now, there has been a deep concern in society about the low interest shown by children and children in the consumption of fish. In a world where it's more and more frequent to eat out of the house because we live without time, there's an increase of so-called fast food, 6% in 2016, and 6% in 2017 in Spain, with an invoice of 10,657 million euros. In the days of Expomar, in Burela, last week, Ms. Rosaura Leis, vice president of the Atlantic Diet Foundation and coordinator of the CHUS Paediatric Care Unit, recognized her concern that eating fish is fundamental for children and throughout her entire life for their nutritional properties, for the health benefits of children, in addition to being a unique source of omega 3 acids and also for providing vitamins and minerals. They are fundamental benefits for brain development, retina, sperm, heart and liver, prevent cognitive deterioration and benefit cardiovascular function and longevity, in addition to acting as anti-inflammatory and anti-thrombs. The Council of the Sea, aware of this reality and betting on creating healthy eating habits — especially among children — designed a series of actions with a clear double objective: to influence and balance food diets, mainly in childhood and youth, with the Plan to Prevent Child Obesity in Galicia 2014 and the Xermola Plan, and to enhance and promote consumption of Galician fisheries products, in addition to promotional campaigns in the school area such as "The flavor of adventure is at sea", to carry out workshops and excursions to promote the consumption of fresh fishery and aquaculture products in youth camps, school centres and cultural activities; "Put the pillars to your mouth", which highlights the virtues of marine conservations in public schools and their consumption based on simple recipes; or "From the sea to the meadow", which began in 2016, and seeks the compromise of the product with the professionals. For all the above, I would like to ask you, Counsellor, the following question: What does the Sea Council do for these campaigns to promote fish and seafood consumption?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u367	Thank you very much, Mrs. Salorio. The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u368	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Salorio, as you well said, is a concern that we have in the Government of Galicia to have a population that is well fed and therefore meets healthy criteria of life. And that's why we're working, since the board I'm honoring to run, in a number of programs that you're asking about today, and about which I have to take a balance, I understand that it's extremely positive. I say this because subjective appreciation is consolidated when you can look for arguments for four reasons to give them this positive balance. The first is the number of participants in these campaigns, which already reach more than 115,000 children who have had contact with these activities. It's a relatively important figure, because we're covering about 57% of the school population of children and primary in our autonomous community. The second reason is that this attention from the campaigns leads us to work with children of primary age and also primary education, and that implies as much as forging the basis of future generations; that is, we are looking for future consumers. The third reason is that forging that base assumes that we can reverse that trend that is driving our society every day to consume less fish, since this consumption has been reduced by 2.4% in recent years. For the fourth reason, I think it's also going to be in that social interest, because these campaigns are part of a program, as I said, much broader, which is that of "Feed well." And what does this program want? Well, to improve the consumption habits of our children and children, and to lead them into a healthier life. These campaigns have to lead us to a result in the medium and long term, and that vision is what we have to work with, reaching many children and children and doing it in a simple and playful way. That's the case of "The taste of adventure is in the sea" and also of "Put the batteries in your mouth." Hence, each campaign has two web pages on which different materials are available — sheets, stories, games and teaching units — with the aim of involving the largest number of educational community agents and for the teacher to also work with the student in relation to these initiatives. Besides, and on the other hand, we understand that spreading the values and consumption of marine products also has much to do with increasing the number of prescribers. And that's what we have to do in a way: working with our cooks in the future. And that's why we take advantage of our hospitality schools to develop the program "From Sea to Plate", in which we have developed a complete calendar of days of promotion and dissemination of marine products in the specific environment of the hostel, which deals globally, multi-discipline and specialized knowledge and treatment of sea products for the future professionals of this sector. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u369	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the word, for the reply, Mrs. Salorio Porral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u370	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintana, for the information and for the work. I think you can congratulate the Council on launching these programmes, on meeting the future of the sector and on the health of this society. I think these figures are not smaller and the results will be seen in the medium term. We see that this work is continuing at a good pace and, in that sense, we want you to explain to us whether there will be new steps in this direction. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u371	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, Mrs. Counsellor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u372	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Salorio, I thank you for your words and will then transfer them to the entire team that develops these campaigns, which since the Sub-Direction of Markets and Fisheries Products work daily to achieve, as I said, a healthier youth, more aware of the responsible consumption of the products of the sea. And we don't stop looking at what we can bring from the Galician Union to recover this fish consumption, which was something traditional in our life, in our way of being like Greeks, and which has recently been lost. In this case, I have to tell you that, in addition to continuing with these two programs that we have just worked with the children and also following the program of the school hosting students, we are also designing a new campaign that attempts to reach young people between the ages of 18 and 35, those who today are called "Millennials" — I think — are a little distant from this new way of calling them Thursday. I think it's important that, just as we work with the children so that they themselves ask their parents to feed them fish in their houses, the young people — once they leave home and start developing their life outside the house — may know the facilities they also have to prepare a good fish dish, whether with fresh fish, frozen fish or even with fish transformed through the candies. We're going to try to make it a very simple campaign and use social networks, which is a tool that today youth uses a lot. I hope that at the end we can get the whole youth and the boys can increase fish consumption and so we have a much healthier population, which is like we inherited from our ancestors. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u373	Thank you very much, Counselor. Institutional statement on the Declaration of Human Rights Defenders and Defenders
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-09-DSPG071.u374	Before we finish, the reading of the last institutional statement we wanted to make in this plenary, by agreement of all groups, the institutional declaration "Rights and Freedoms". Please be quiet. "The Galician Parliament reaffirms itself in the defence of the Declaration of Human Rights Defenders and Defenders, adopted 20 years ago by the United Nations General Assembly. On this anniversary we underline the primary responsibility of States and institutions for the defence of universal rights and, in particular, in this institutional statement, for the guarantee of life and the exercise of that defence by those who are explicitly dedicated to this function today. The so-called human rights defenders are equally defenders and defenders of life and humanity. That's why we welcome and support through this statement their performance and commitment in a struggle that must be of all people. In line with the United Nations, this Parliament is also aware of the loss of value in recent years of human rights discourse to the detriment of other principles and interests — political, geostrategic, economic or commercial — which we are particularly concerned about. And that's why: 1. The Galician Parliament reaffirms its commitment to the consideration of individual and collective human rights as collected in international instruments, with particular reference to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, on its 70th anniversary, and to the one known as the Declaration of Human Rights Defenders and Defenders, from which we celebrate its 20th anniversary. 2. Even so, understanding that we all — together with social organizations — have responsibilities and functions to carry out in the protection and recognition of defenders and defenders, we make a special call to public institutions for the fulfilment of all their responsibilities in the same protection. 3. We reject the criminalization processes that are organised, especially from some economic and political sectors, against the work of defenders and defenders. These people have, since their peaceful actions and as life defenders, been aware of the recognition and protection of this Parliament. 4. We recognize the outstanding work done so far by various programmes of temporary protection of human rights defenders and defenders, always in continuous coordination between institutions and social organizations in the field of international cooperation and solidarity. Finally, the Galician Parliament will transfer this institutional statement to the Government of Galicia, the Valedora do Pueblo and the Government of Spain, requesting these authorities to activate, in accordance with their powers, the mechanisms and procedures necessary for the full and free exercise of all human rights by defenders and defenders in any country in the world. Santiago de Compostela, May 9, 2018" [[Adopted by consent.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And at the end of the day, we raised the session.
