ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. And we're on the agenda, all right. Point one, appearance. Opinion of the Councillor for Culture and Tourism, on his own request, to report on the general lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u2	Mr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u3	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I appear before the Galician Parliament to take account of the general lines of action of the new Council of Culture and Tourism. A council that emerges from the need to support the country's cultural and tourist sectors by betting on its sustainability. A counselor who is born with the vocation of creating synergies between these two realities, different but complementary. One advice that addresses, among others, a close and concrete challenge: planning and carrying out Xacobeo 21. Ladies and gentlemen, tourism and culture are two fundamental areas for Galicia. If I may, I'd say I'm the soul and face of the country. Culture and language are our identity, which connect us with our own, an inexhaustible source of affection and pride. Tourism is our image in front of the world, as they perceive us inside and outside our borders. Two strategic sectors that jointly account for around 13% of our GDP and more than 15% of our employment. Two areas which have their specific needs, but which must be complemented to ensure their profitability and strength. Today it's more important than ever to strengthen synergies, heritage, landscape, gastronomy, language; ultimately, culture. They're our biggest tourist attraction. And tourism is an exceptional opportunity to develop our cultural industries and sectors. This synergy is one of the reasons for being the new councillor. Luckily, we're not starting from zero, we're the continuations of a path started long ago that counts with the means, planning and experience. The creation of the new autonomic department has given new impetus to this reality by providing new forces to give a qualitative and quantitative leap that forms the basis of a solid and future culture, and dynamic tourism, an engine for development and job creation. This new impulse is one of the reasons for being the new councillor. We have a significant challenge before us, the next Holy Year. A cross-sectional project for the whole of Galician society. A challenge, gentlemen, that doesn't end or begin in 2021, the real challenge begins the day after. We must understand Jacob as a transformation tool that leaves a Galicia more prepared for the next decade, a better Galicia. This challenge is one of the reasons why we're in the new board. In order to achieve these objectives successfully, we need to ask ourselves what the culture and tourism we want is like; as it is, ladies and gentlemen, what we want is Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, there are ten roads leading to Santiago de Compostela, ten Jacobean routes. Inspired by them, we present our response, the strategic lines of the Council, the ten ways to develop our culture and our tourism. A decalogue to build our project for the year 2021 and for those who will come later. The first path is planning. In order to start any journey, the first thing we need is a destination and a map. Culture and tourism are two key strategic sectors for the development of the country, we cannot let go of improvisation. So the first line of work is planning, a planning based on the creation of new strategies and the actual development of those that are already working. Strategies that have a common denominator: they must be the product of a collective reflection, a collective reflection that counts with the participation of the entire value chain of the sectors, favoring cooperation between administrations, society and public and private agents. Thus, the Galician Tourism Strategy was drafted, which consisted of twenty-eight work tables distributed by sixteen Galician towns and attended by over six hundred people. And so we're building the Strategy of Greek Culture, which takes more than fifteen meetings, seven territorial meetings and eight sectoral meetings, with the participation of 300 professionals. Two documents that will be vital for the Council's work. At this point we can announce that before the end of this year 2018 we will present the Strategy of Greek Culture for approval at the Council of the Union. To these strategies there are others, some of them already underway, such as the Master Plan of the Way of Santiago, and others that will be novices, such as the Strategic Plan of Xacobeo, which will be ready over the next year. A comprehensive and necessary planning to work effectively for tomorrow's culture and tourism. The second way is competitiveness. We must strengthen the cultural and tourist industries with concrete measures to boost their competitiveness. We bet on quality by laying the foundations of a strong culture and tourism, a motor of well-being, progress and a source of employment. An area in which we must work in the hands of the sectors by ensuring their profitability, export capacity and the force of Galicia as destination. That is why we want to announce a new plan, the MAT Plan — Plan for the Improvement of Tourist Housing —. A line of help in collaboration with different departments of the Union which is directly committed to improving the quality of the tourism sector by making and supporting tourist accommodation to modernize your equipment, infrastructure and services. A plan that seeks to loyalize visitors, increase periods of stay and customer spending; which will obviously have a direct impact on job creation. [[Applause]] Public-private collaboration is essential in this area. So we will continue to support the tourism cluster, a reference entity in Galicia with which we work and develop the Galician tourism strategy, and with which we achieve, together, the best tourist data in our history. It is also essential to increase the competitiveness of cultural industries, key sectors for Galicia, as in the book. In this case, we are developing a specific plan for dynamizing reading, in collaboration with the Advisory Council of the Book, and we will strengthen the edition of the book in English and German. The music. We will put in place a new line of help to support the resurgence of new artists and deepen our support for festivals through the aid and Fest Galicia, taking advantage of the indisputable tourist impact of these events. In audiovisual we will maintain support for the sector with aid for development and production. The call for projects for Xacobeo will be resolved, in this case in February. And we're going to develop Galicia Film Office with regard to the Galaga Academy of Audiovisual, with an end: boosting the films in Galicia, increasing competitiveness and also boosting employment. And the scenic arts, in which we will continue to promote production and co-productions, also at the Galego Dramatic Center, in which we will propose a great dance show that revolves around Galicia and abroad, placing in value our culture in front of the world. The third way is sustainability. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that many of the Council's actions have a reference date, the year 2021, but never understood this date as a final point, but as a point and then followed. We must bet on initiatives, on projects that remain, that are sustainable. We must, therefore, enhance mobility, affordability of tourist spaces by preparing the transport infrastructures and services for the important events ahead, such as Xacobeo 21 and the arrival of AVE to Galicia. So we want to announce that in collaboration with the Infrastructure Council we will promote the creation of a bilateral, joint and state table, to adapt the main rail and airport systems of Greece, thus anticipating ourselves to the major events that come together, thus leaving a more and better connected Galicia for the future. In recent times we have reached unimaginable tourist figures just a few years ago. We moved from the three and a half million visitors in 2012 to the more than five million arriving today in Galicia. We now have a no smaller challenge: to consolidate them, to make them sustainable in time, to stick to the customer, to improve the average stay and long-term profitability in the sector. Finally, in the face of the changes in tourism trends at the global level. To talk about sustainability and the future is also to talk about new creators, artists and entrepreneurs. So we will launch next year a program of help to new creators in the field of literature, translation and illustration. We will create the first art market, dedicated to giving visibility and boosting the career of the new artists of Galicia, and will promote an annual exhibition in the City of Culture for newly returned students, students from schools and the arts faculties of Galicia. We will also continue to promote cultural entrepreneurship, empowering the Centre for the Entrepreneurship of the City of Culture. A center that drives 100 entrepreneurial projects today, more than a hundred entrepreneurial projects linked to culture, where more than 6,000 people spend each year in their activities. We aspire to consolidate it as a reference to cultural entrepreneurship in both Galicia and Spain. The fourth way is singularity. One of the essential values of Galicia and the Greeks is our singularity and our authenticity. We must enhance our cultural, ethnographic and landscape resources, boosting cultural industries, protecting heritage and taking advantage of its unique value to diversify and destabilize tourism. In this line, we launched the Santiago Road BIC Plan, a great project for the restoration and rehabilitation of monuments that, in collaboration with the ministry, will act in the conservation of the cultural interest goods located on the streets of Santiago. An example of the value of our unique resources, the protection of our cultural heritage as a living and accessible resource. We will create the Program of Routes in small historical helmets, which will culturally and touristly enhance Town Councils and Historic Helmets such as the World, Liver or Betanzos, among others. And we must create a model that fosters alternatives, claiming our own and encouraging tourism of activity in destination. For this reason, we have created and will promote the Galicia Xabe Project, a plan that will boost our culinary tradition and indigenous products, also improving competitiveness and employment in the primary sector. We will continue to develop the thermal plan, complete the offer of the Cortegada spa with a new complex and improvements in accessibility, and finalize new wine routes. This year 2019 we will do it in Valdeorras, Monterrey and the Sacred Ribeira. Finally, promoting a specialized tourism offer, differentiating and enhancing Galicia as a destination. The fifth way is inclusion. In the German Government we have the deep conviction that culture and tourism should be for all, so I announce that we will promote a great programme in the field of cultural and tourism inclusion. A program in which we will develop multiple actions to bring culture and tourism closer to people with functional diversity and advanced age. We will collaborate with the main entities working in this area, such as ONCE or Cogami, developing signs, services and accessibility works in tourist and cultural infrastructures, and giving a new boost to the Tourism Accessibility Plan and the Santiago Way, with a goal: to convert Galicia into an inclusive destination and making culture closer to everyone. [[Applause]] The sixth way is pride. Culture and language make up our identity and assume our highest differential value. That's why we will continue to promote positive attitudes towards language, especially among those who use it less. We will continue with the Plan to dynamize the Greek language in youth, creating a favourable environment in a population sector that uses little by little the Greek, which should use more, despite its high level of competition. An example in this work is linguistic dynamization actions in cultural and musical events, such as in Fest Galicia. Together with the language, we must also protect and promote our heritage, a cultural and tourist resource of first order. In line with the Road BIC Plan, we will develop ambitious conservation and restoration actions in different goods: Lugo Wall, Carbon, Panton Ferry and many others. We will declare BIC the files already launched, such as the case of the coastal carpentry, the Eiros Cave or the Pasatempo park in Betanzos. And we will continue to promote new declarations, ensuring the protection of more than seven hundred goods of great cultural interest throughout Galicia. We will create a new order for the rehabilitation of ethnographic goods, allocating a million euros for the conservation of ethnographic goods located on any of Santiago's ten roads. We will promote actions such as the Galicia Congratulations Awards, which recognize the initiatives to beautify the landscape in urban centers and also on the Way. And, of course, we will continue to work on the three Greek candidatures the world heritage of UNESCO: the Sacred Ribeira, the Atlantic Cíes-Isles and the Iron of Illustration. In the pride of our own basic culture, working with the cultural sectors, expanding the success of the Programme will be—started this year—supporting music bands and traditional music and culture meetings, collaborating with other sectors, such as corals or amateur theatre, and we will also begin to create Galicia's artistic legacy seeking the maximum protection, conservation and availability of the work of Greek artists, both historical and contemporary. The seventh path is balance. Culture and tourism are two powerful decentralizer agents, two agents that promote balanced development of the territory, delocalizing wealth and also promoting employment. From the Council we want to deepen in this area, enhancing the tourist and cultural capacities of the Greek municipalities and ensuring access to culture throughout the territory. We will implement the rural tourism plan, where we are engaging and working with the primary sector, which will be launched in 2019. We will push more geodestinous agreements for the development and promotion of new products. We will continue with successful programs like Culture on the Way, already present in more than a hundred municipalities. We will create the new cultural village prize, in collaboration with a foundation that will award every year a Galician village for its excellence in cultural promotion and management, creating a specific programming on each of the selected routes. And we will also promote a new plan of cultural itineraries, as a complement to the paths, enhancing cultural and heritage values and increasing the impact on the whole territory. Other priorities in this area are to ensure quality and access to basic cultural services: libraries, museums and archives. That's why we're going to deepen our funding and support for these infrastructures, for these cultural services in all the municipalities. And we will also develop the new traveling library program, which will start in the first quarter of the year 2019 and bring the reading closer to small municipalities that lack library. The eighth way is professionalization. The future of Galicia's cultural and tourist sectors goes through its professionalization, and to achieve it plays a key and fundamental role in training. We must promote the improvement of the quality of services and the incorporation of new professionals, well-trained professionals and prepared to meet the demands of an increasingly specialized sector and society. At this point, the Centre Superior de Hostelería de Galicia points out. A centre that seeks to contribute to highly trained professional hospitality, actively collaborating in the development and improvement of the sector, from where we will enhance initiatives such as the school of travelling training, expanding training to different points of our geography, collaborating with public and private entities. From the Council we will also seek to involve universities in developing a training plan in cultural fields. A training plan directed at industry professionals, managers and cultural entrepreneurs. We will continue the training grants in practice in tourist offices, both national and international, and we will continue to support the training actions of the cluster, which offer high quality training directly connected with the needs of the sector. The ninth way is innovation. Galicia must lead the transformation of culture and tourism with innovative proposals that prepare us for the technological challenges of the 21st century. The great proposal being launched in this area is Galicia's digital memory. A project that seeks to create a new model of management and conservation of the Greek cultural heritage, a project that will soon resolve its first call for archival digitization and different heritage. In this line, in turn, the Council's bet on Smart Tourism and Smart Path programs, given their success, will continue to enhance. And also the digitization of learning in the Welsh language, creating online teaching programs with Celga at all its levels. Research will also be encouraged in collaboration with the Greek universities. We will push for innovative research, especially through CEIPAC. CEIPAC, a new Research Centre on Cultural Itineraries and Landscapes, which, as its lords know, will be located in the Fontán building and will provide a new impetus to research directly linked to the territory. You will have and will develop new lines of work in heritage management, landscape management and also in cultural itineraries, especially the paths of Santiago. The tenth way is internationalization. Culture is our best letter of presentation to the world, so it is essential to enhance its international presence, giving a new boost to the Greek cultural sectors and continuing in the tourism field with the specialized and out-of-season promotion work, which improve our positioning on the markets Ladies and gentlemen, this year is the second best year in the history for tourism in Greece, especially if we take international visitors into account. It is essential to enhance the arrival of foreigners who increase spending in Galicia, the number of nights and profitability. That's why we're present at more than half a hundred international fairs on the five continents, looking for concrete audiences and specializing in Galicia as a destination. You've made a lot of progress, but there's still a lot to do. There are new challenges, such as effective opening up to the Asian market, such as dynamizing the presence of culture and our cultural industries abroad, also enhancing our cultural diplomacy; exploring, in this case, three major areas of expansion: Atlanticism, Galician Atlantic Relationship. This year 2019, in the following year, Galicia will be invited to honor in two major cultural events and also with a strong tourist tradition. On the one hand, in February in Scotland, in Glasgow, and also in Lorient at the Intercéltico Festival in 2019 Galicia will be the guest of honor and will have a great cultural, musical and tourist presence. The Lusophony. Using Greek as a tool for internationalization, strengthening the presence of our language in the world, expanding collaboration with Trucks and strengthening readers. And, of course, Santiago's Way. Our largest gateway is a permanent source of ambassadors and prescribers all over the world. We'll continue to bet on the roads as a projection tool, like Galicia's global presentation letter. We will also enhance the centres of Greek studies, prescribers of our language and culture in the university fields around the world, reinforcing their role as tourist and cultural attractions, as well as training on the roads, and creating new centers in the universities of Santa Barbara in the United States and in Turin as well. And favoring, too, the export of Greek cultural industries, with a line of support for the presence of Welsh creators at international festivals and help with distribution. We'll also maintain exhibitions with cultural references clearly Welsh but they're outside, so we've done it with Pergamin Vindel or we're doing it right now with the last lesson of the master. And we will also generate our own samples to go abroad to promote our culture abroad, so we did it with José Suárez, with photographer José Suárez, and so we are doing it with photographer Pestana, using for this the network of the Cervantes Institute. We also bet on collaboration with the associations of friends of the Way around the world and we will enhance the role of cultural and tourist expansion of the Greeks abroad. These are the ten general lines of action of the Culture and Tourism Council: planning, competitiveness, sustainability, pride, singularity, accessibility, balance, professionalization, innovation and internationalisation. These are the ten paths that we will develop and the culture and tourism of Galicia will develop in the coming years. And, Your Honor, to meet all these challenges we also have an extraordinary opportunity before us: The 21st James. We understand James 21 as a country project. We use this expression a lot, "country project," and I think it's important that we understand what it means. We're faced with an idea that Galician vertebrae, regardless of institutions or political colors. A collective challenge that has a specific date, but whose effects must be extended on time and also on the territory. A real transforming tool that can help us develop the Galicia we want, and to achieve it, we will build the 21th Xacobeo on proper planning and participation, taking into account its global character, its international projection and its role as a tool for sustainability. The first steps are planning and participation. It's essential not to leave space for improvisation and create a solid and participatory architecture. A shared architecture between society and the main institutions of the country. To do so we have the following institutional cooperation scheme: with the Jacobeo Council, which is known at the state level, which unites all the autonomous communities through the French way. Recently established is the Interdepartmental Commission of the Union — which brings together several autonomic departments — the Church, the Town Hall of Santiago, the Fegamp and the Government Delegation. And we have, as the president announced in the last Autonomy debate, the firm idea of creating a working group in the Galician Parliament, where we want to join all of you so that they can also contribute their initiatives, their projects, their vision of what is called the new Galician event for the coming years. In that sense, ladies and gentlemen, I call you on very close dates, to hold a working meeting for all groups in the House, to hold a working meeting so you can start working on this line. And for the planning of a successful Jacobean, the active involvement of society is fundamental. We want to count on the municipalities, associations, public and private entities and all the people who want to participate. For that, we created the open call for projects like "Your Xacobeo." A pioneering initiative with two million euros, which will allow any citizen or entity to propose projects of cultural, social or sports interest, two million euros initially. Besides, and curiously now, public and private sponsorships are being unlocked with a very advantageous tax relief, and we also want to count on universities, signing collaborative agreements and designing joint research strategies and projects in both areas: culture and tourism. A proper planning, needs, needs a budget that supports it. In 2019, since the Council of Culture and Tourism — as we announced at the budget meeting — we will invest almost thirty million euros in the city of Xacobeo and the streets of Santiago in the coming years. These amounts will also be joined by other departments of the Union, as can be, for example, in the Infrastructure Council, all the economic contribution being made to improving access to the city of Santiago de Compostela. Or, for example, in the Environmental Council, with the ARI Programme, of Integral Rehabilitation Areas, which is dedicated specifically to the paths of Santiago. We're talking about very important investments that are in different autonomic departments of the Galician Union and that mean there's an integral vision to achieve this great goal. These are very important investments that have a major end, prepare Galicia, and prepare it not only for the year twenty-first, prepare it for the next decade. The globality, no doubt Compostela, Santiago de Compostela will be an exceptional scenario for many of the actions of Jacob, but it will also be the other six great cities of the country, and all the towns and villages of Galicia. Because James 21 has to expand beyond the symbolic limits of the workshop. The roads that pass through a third of the Greek municipalities will also — or will have these municipalities — have a great impact on them. But if we really want a universal and integrative Jacob, we must involve all of Galicia, all the municipalities of Galicia, taking advantage of this event as a tool of cultural and tourist dynamization that generates pride, wealth and employment throughout the country. And their international projection, a projection that has two roads, one on each way back; on the one hand, we want to show the world the best of Galicia and, on the other hand, we also want to bring Galicia the best of the world, because Jacob is an unparalleled opportunity to carry out actions that can empower our outer image and our country brand to internationalize, ultimately, our culture. This is the reason for all the tourism promotion work and the intense cultural programming that will surround Xacobeo. To finish, one of the main ideas, about which Jacob is built, is sustainability, because Jacob doesn't start or end only in the year 2021, that's just a starting point, and that's why planning, globality and international projection are so important. The reason why we should start doing today's 2021 duties and continue to keep a good note after 2021. And in this line, we develop the actions that we will move from the Council, the main actions that we will develop, the Plan for the Improvement of Tourist Housing, the BIC Plan of the Way of Santiago, the Joint-State Bilateral Table to ensure and plan a new mobility and accessibility of tourist spaces or the Programme for Cultural and Tourist Inclusion. Because if we succeed, gentlemen, among all a better Jacob, we are building a better Galicia, a better Galicia for us and our children. This is, ladies and gentlemen, our vision and our project for the next James 21. These are, ladies and gentlemen, our general lines for building the culture and tourism of the present and the culture and tourism of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u4	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor around parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Counselor. And good morning, too, to the people who accompany us at the guest banquet. I have to admit to you, Mr. Rodríguez, that we were up to a certain point intrigued by the fact that you would say today every time we had the budget appearance in the Commission last week, and the truth is that you didn't move an apex. No, we're still the same line, and we're getting more and more convinced, and every time we have a chance to listen to them, we're more convinced that they're not going to do anything beyond the Xacobeo, that, as we've just checked again — for the last time — they occupy the three-quarters of the speech, the three-fourths of the speech; and the other side are the eternal announcements, which never come, only that, a solma, a headline, a slogan in cultural policy and linguistic policy. And I have to tell you -- I think I've already told you on other occasions -- that we're going a little, pretty tired, full of smoke, full of propaganda, which is what we've had over the past few years. Look, they've been announcing — and you've cited it here today — the Linguistic Standardization Plan between youth since April 2016. We're on our way for three years to talk about it without having even referred to this camera or a sketch, or an initial proposal, nothing!, no document about what to work on, and that last week, last Monday at Commission 3rd, that your own forecasts were to hand it over to this chamber between September and October of this year. It's November 6th today, in case someone's awake. And then there's the eternal announcement, according to eternal announcement, that is the strategy of culture, one of the same. It gives me the impression that we live on the marmot's day permanently. I was now reviewing the hemerotheque and the first time we heard from a cultural advisor who was going to create a plan for the cultural sectors was to Mr. Jesús Vázquez in an identical appearance — which you just had — in March 2013. [[Applause]] In March 2013, a plan for the cultural sectors and a master plan for the book. Exactly the same announcement you just made, you can go to the Journal of Sessions if you don't believe me. As you will understand, with this picture the credibility you have is zero. I also told him last Monday, and I repeat it again today, it's that they haven't just walked in through the door, that they've been 10 years, and ten years of smoke, advertising, advertising, but never getting more of the announcement. And after a decade, it seems that the only proposal we have on the table -- or at least we can do it -- is to return to the Fraga model. We are increasingly convinced that the objective of cultural policy is to return to the Fraga model, that is the horizon. More money to bury in the City of Culture, with the novelty that they now take them directly to research, development and innovation at universities. Seven hundred thousand euros have been diverted from the 2018 budgets for this purpose and from the 2019 budget project to two and a half million, too, university research funds. I insist, and then the new eucalyptus, the Xacobeo monoculture, three quarters of the intervention centered on Xacobeo 2021, which on the cultural ground translates into a ceremony — if I may — of confusion between the spectacle and propaganda. Macroevents backed up with public money that, regardless of their success, give us back to preterit times when it comes to ways and practices. We have denounced him here in this chamber on more than one occasion, and I have to repeat it: the best example, the most obvious of this confusion between the show and the propaganda, is how the The Way Sound festival was hired. We don't know if there's going to be a second edition in the same conditions that the Galician Union participated in this year 2018, processes negotiated without advertising to hand over three million euros. Do you know how long the line of aids goes up for the set of musical festivals and performing arts, because they go together? We have three million euros in a non-advertising negotiated sponsorship for music festivals and performing arts for the country's whole, four hundred and sixty thousand euros. And now he says he's going to create some tips, and now he's said he's going to help the film and distribution festivals, which already exist. I invite you to visit the website of Agadic, the Galaga Agency of Cultural Industries, because they are endowed with four hundred and fifty thousand euros, something that seems absolutely demanding to us, because in addition to what you conceive as distribution are transportation and maintenance expenses to attend, attend fairs, festivals or movie exhibitions. Honestly, what we were hoping for -- we also told you at the budget show -- is that you put the batteries in the Council and start working to secure channels of distribution and display not only of music, but also of cinema and all the forms of cultural creation in our country. But then, what we see is this is what it has to do with music festivals, with what it has to do with cinema festivals, but then there are cultural sectors, which you don't mention, which are in an absolutely critical situation. Look, the Galego Drama Center survives with very little economic resources, which is the country's national theater. In this country it was approved in 2008 the plan of the Greek performing arts and you entered the door for pure political sectarianism, but it was put in a drawer and it was left to die for inannition. They don't even want to hear — nor have you mentioned it now, either — of the preliminary draft of the Greek Law on performing arts, which has driven, promoted and brought to this chamber the sector itself. And this I remember because I insist very much on this matter, you haven't just walked through the door, you've been with cultural policy competences for ten years in our country. And what we see is again that exactly the same ads are repeated; I say we live permanently on the day of the marmot. You speak of a specific plan of book and reading, which has already been announced in this Chamber in 2013, but it is that we then go to the budgets, to the budget projects — which is where that will is truly expressed and where the resources are put into effect to make these announcements reality—and what we see is that in the 2019 budgets — I also told you last year— what they do is cut into all the games practically directed to the publishing sector, the book sector and the promotion of reading: edition in English, seven thousand euros less; promotion of reading and book, thirty-eight thousand euros less: or support and promotion of the production and editing of the book in Welsh, ten thousand euros less. He said the other day, that he also appeared on the basis of the budget project, the president of the Council of Culture that the Law of the Book and of the Reading of 2006 was sleeping — she said — the dream of the righteous. At the BNG, we think it's going to turn itself into Morpheus, directly. It's going to turn into Morpheus because it's been a decade, not asleep, on the edge of the inannition, because if they don't end up with economic resources and strategic planning, things die on their own. [[Applause]] And the consequences — in addition to that anti-politics, because I think you have no other name than anti-politics — are in sight. If the lights, of course, of the Xacobeo allow them to see the sun, they would see that a sector like that of the book in Greek, of enormous importance, and not only economical, is losing weight, as it reveals the diagnosis drawn up by the Council of Culture. And far from doing something, because you're still cutting. I insist that these are the budget project figures for 2019. In the area of linguistic policy, the eternal announcement again is that they have been announcing the Standardization Plan directed to younger age groups, to youth, since April 2016, since April 2016. It was done by the Secretary General of Linguistic Policy in a number of days organized by the Council of Culture, that was announced again, this time you are already in February 2017, then again in May 2017, again in February 2018, and today again. They promised to send it back to this camera between September and October, it's hung on the website of the General Secretariat of Linguistic Policy for their temporary planning between September and October this year, and I insist it's November 6th today. In the meantime, what we see — because you have passed from points, absolutely above — is that we quote the eternal announcement, but we do not sink to anything else, totally deaf ears to reality, deaf ears to rupture in the generational transmission, which does not have to see only that this was also a question that we have taken from the BNG on more than one occasion to Commission 4a, not to have to see only with families, but is bound by the scarce or null presence of the Greek language in school, especially in child education, which is territory comanche for the language of this country, in the media, also in a broad sense. What do we got? That precisely in the age ranges that you think will stay out of this youth-oriented normalization plan, from five to fourteen, only 18 percent of children learn to speak in the English language. And the picture doesn't get much better in the immediate future, all the time -- and I insist that this is something that put the Academy itself on the table -- that the school has become a disengagement agent. And that's the responsibility of the Galician Union, and there we have no idea what it's going to make the most responsible for language policy, that's the legacy that leaves up to now the People's Party, and frankly — with this end — Jacob won't serve anything to change this situation, so less preach the new eucalyptus monoculture of Jacob 21 and start giving wheat, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u7	Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, anyone would say that you've been a cultural advisor, I want to remind you that you've been here for five years, so what you've been presenting here is not a planning for the future, but a lot of what you haven't done. [[Applause]] Because to me it's a lot of attention that a councilman who's been conducting culture for five years says that the main thing, and what he's going to do, is to plan. Well, I'm very glad to know what we've always told you, that you were doing a culture without planning of any kind, of any kind, Counselor. [[Applause]] It's true what Mrs. Rodil tells you, too; it's more, I participated in that audience. In 2013 a culture strategy was promised, here we are still without any strategy. Because what you put forward, Counselor, in culture is a failure, really a failure, and I'm going to give you the reasons for this, your work as a cultural advisor; then we'll talk about tourism and Xacobeo. By the way, Jacob is the only one — as I said very recently — who is interested in you, because you want to use Jacob 21 to cover up Mr. Feijó's government's lack of management. As there's nothing to present in education, in employment, or in health care, for example, because you're going to be with the word Jacobo all day. But I'm telling you, you have a bad result as a cultural advisor in five years. No planning, no targets, no new ideas, not even no budget, too, because you who talk about culture so much, which looks like we're going to do a lot of things here, the culture budget is 0.6% of the total budget of the board. And I'd like to know, then, how you're gonna do everything you promised years ago and keep promising if you don't have a budget for it. But look, Mr. Counsellor, some of the key sectors, at least for us -- not for you -- and that you mentioned, for example, libraries, brushes, nothing else. The network of libraries, which is basically based on local libraries, is in a very bad situation. The Galician library map, which you yourself have done, indicates that nearly 70 percent of the libraries in Galicia have no suitable facilities or equipment, and some of them have no Internet. There are one hundred and six libraries closed right now in Galicia because they have no money or staff. But what's the matter? Of course, what you guys did was lower down, they cut 78 percent of the investment in libraries and the book. You just share a few small grants, and this is an example, Counselor, that can be extrapolated to all sectors. They don't have a real library policy, which would lead to planning the needs between five and six years, making a good library reform plan, which is not giving everyone the same; it's to develop, maintain and cover all the gaps in libraries. If we talk about libraries we're talking about books, and I think you know what the publishing industry is in -- by the way, the strategic industry, the strategic sector of our country -- and how the publications are falling, especially from the German book. Between 2008 and 2015, Counsellor, 43.8% of the publications of the Greek book came down. You don't care or care about this, so you see, because there's no more funds to somehow cut this situation. Of course, with this situation it reads very little in Galicia, I zero that you know, right, Counselor? In Galicia we have some indices of cultural habits that are below virtually all autonomy, and I tell you some, in case you don't have them in your head. In Galicia you never read 30 percent of the citizens, the lowest in Spain. The Spanish average is 21 %; the Basque Country is 10 %; we are 30 %. But those who read some book a year, just 57 percent, ten points below the Spanish average. You see, I'm saying that a government that's planning at some point would say, we need a good read-in plan. We don't have it, we don't have it, the whole sector is asking for it, and you've been 10 years and there's no reading support plan. Because you don't care what happens. [[Applause]] You visit museums, the same way, 44% of the Greeks and Greeks never visit a museum. The one at the theater is already terrible, 72% of the Greeks and Greeks say they never go to a theater, they never see a play. The last, the last of all autonomous communities. But we are the last in use of the computer for cultural purposes. We occupy the last position in stage arts and the penultimate position in family expenditure in culture. Counsellor, this didn't happen so simply, it happened after ten years of his management. Heritage, which concerns me very much, because it is one of the fundamental axes of any culture policy. Its cultural policy on heritage, basically, is reactive, not active. It's really what they've been doing all this time. It's also true that they don't have eight million for the rehabilitation and maintenance of Galician cultural heritage. Of course, that's why I understand that much can't be done. I want to tell you, in this obsession that you have with Jacob, and especially with the union of culture and tourism, that if something good has that union is the heritage, and I hope — Mr Counsellor, you will tell me — that heritage is always subject to culture, never to tourism. Because look, what makes tourism, what made the tourism agency with this country's heritage, we have a clear example: the castle of Monterrey. The castle of Monterrey was led by tourism to a paraphernalia that was not needed, and destroying and causing many prejudices to the heritage of this castle. This cannot be done, above tourism must always be the heritage. [[Applause]] Like the maintenance of roads, which are cultural heritage, they must also be led by heritage, not by tourism. You were talking about tax evasion. I hope that you are always quick, and you have no problem saying how bad the PSOE governments are doing — Andalucia, for example, who is always with that theme — will have no problem saying that it was the Government of Pedro Sánchez who unlocked something that was blocked with President Rajoy, who were the tax reliefs and now put them in place already in November of this government. Also in saying that for that BIC Plan 100 million were requested from the Government of Madrid, not everything is done from here. And from the Jacob — and I feel I don't have much more time — you were saying — and you said something like it now — in the presentation of the budgets that the Jacob will be, and I quote: "an inexhaustible source of illusion and pride." I don't try to break this poetic veil that you have every time you talk about the Xacobeo, uh, that looks very good to you!, I don't want to be pragmatic, but I would like that in addition to increasing the illusion and pride — that by some means the assumptions that you present the degree of pride come to us very dear — that in addition to having pride, we want to know what impulse it will have for the economy. Do you know, or do you expect, how much of Galicia's GDP is going to rise through Xacobeo? Do you have any plans for this? Do you have any forecasts of economic input? How much are you going to raise the job? And not only in the year 2021, Counselor, because that wouldn't be of much use, anything else, except that it would stay after Jacob. They have a lot of money for advertising. First they have a high budget, thirty million, you speak. You know that the biggest budget, more responsibility. If we go on like this, you won't be able to say in the year 2021 that you couldn't do anything because the crisis, the money, they had no money, this thing that you apply so well to culture and other sectors. They have a lot of publicity, almost nineteen million this year between Culture and Tourism. I want to remind you that heritage rehabilitation has seven and a half million, and publicity is nine. I'm fine, if advertising campaigns are done as they should be, but please in the issuing markets, because all spring and summer this year my neighborhood was full of posters saying to me, "Come to Galicia," and I had a certain location problem, I said, but, you see, am I not in Galicia? because it wasn't "Come to the Coruña from Lugo", which I have to move this internal market, and I think it's okay, and that the corrupts come to Lugo, which also seems good. [[Applause]] No, "Come to Galicia." Well, I was in Galicia, I said, I don't know if I'm part of this tourist count that you bring, that we were talking a few times ago about a few Members that you remind us of between the pilgrims and the tourists that song — which you remember — of Los Mismos, that tourist 1,999,999; I hope they get to that number of pilgrims — let's go in 300,000. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u9	But, yes, we know almost personally all the pilgrims who arrive there, the 300 thousand acquaintances through the press. [[Applause]] In fact, it must be a little more serious in advertising — finished — because you know that Xacobeo needs — and now we'll talk about it in the second round — a lot of dedication. [[Applause]] It is a fundamental event, very important for this country — as soon as it is — but whenever it is done with due seriousness. And one second, Mr. President, and I finish, and I want you, please, to answer me He called me very much attention, I agree with you, Counselor. Training is essential for both tourism and culture. But I'd like to know that if you're worried and you're going to talk to universities for cultural fields to train culture technicians and train cultural agents, why are you committed to closing a degree at the Faculty of Humanities, which was the only really directed to the formation of cultural agents and technicians? Because it seems to me, really, a contradiction. You're finishing up with what you've got and they're not doing anything new. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u10	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Counsellor, we've already spoken in your audience — to talk about budgets last week — that there are different visions, different glasses of seeing the same facts; actually, we're in visions in the antipods, I'd say. So, we can look with eyes and glasses -- let's say -- productive tourism, or we can look at it with reflective, liberating eyes and glasses, taking into account the integration of the entire Greek cultural ecosystem. When you talk about ten questions, if you had to write down the ten routes you'd mark, they'd suspend almost all of them. With regard to planning, the Strategic Tourism Plan is very planned, but the Strategic Culture Plan — which has been said here and has been announced for many years now — was announced by President Feijóo, exactly in December 2016 — we have just arrived and many Members and Members of Parliament here are witnessing these statements in which he said "The Strategic Culture Plan will already be" —, we still do not have it until 2020... I suppose in 2019, last November, we will be able to have it. What will it serve us for? Well, with these two perspectives, one puts an eye, above all, on the protection of the value of the existence of good. And we have a rich heritage, and we have a rich ecosystem, but it's badly treated and attacked. If there are two sections of all the boards of this executive, the worst dealt with are linguistic culture and policy. Target data, culture: years 2008, 2009 and 2010, 141, 5 million euros; right now, 2019, 71.9 million euros. And it speaks of balance, there is a brutal imbalance between tourism and culture. Tourism focused only from a commercial point of view is a mistake from a cultural advisor. Of course, the letter of tourism is in forty, the letter of culture is in eight; and it should be in reverse. Man, no! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You focus on the value of use, where business is. It's really a great deal. What happens is that — let's put examples — Jacob 21 raises two key questions by putting the example of the Way Sound, attribution to the finger of almost three million euros, ten years of all the galestic festivals and equivalent. Say, what do we want to know? Yes, we want to know what is the role of public authorities in supporting the cultural ecosystem, one. Secondly, something very serious, in the adjudication of sponsorship contracts, or in the policies to support the creation and promotion of Galician cultural production, will they continue to allow this serious distortion to the market? Will they continue to do this singularity? Are they going to keep making scissors? Now they say, we're going to give two million euros for a new plan. Well, but let's talk about the management of the Xacobeo Anonymous Society, because 90% or 80% -- I don't know how to calibrate well -- of all your speech is centered on Xacobeo 21. All right, it's a continuation of 1961, the first Holy Year that led Fraga, it's a continuity! Well, it is curious that in this Anonymous Society of Xacobeo, where there were clearly internal tensions lagging in the Union itself by the control of this public company that will now be diluted, surely because they already form a whole, Mrs Nava Castro has promoted substantial changes in the statutes of society. And at the same time — I've been talking about not three thousand years ago, I'm talking about May 2018, six months ago — among those changes that coincided with the arrival of Cecilia Pereira the changes that statutaries set up in commercial society allow this lady to hire three or four new associate advisors for society. And so it was. And this, of course, when you do... this is a public company, but, well, in particular, an article is changed and we have to search and track for this knowledge. The City of Culture. The City of Culture is very curious, it's a city that in its own constitution and in all the documents it figures as a space to generate culture, it's a space to welcome culture. Let's say that there are two things of non-compliance also with Mr. Feijóo, one has to do with multinational Indra, and it has to do with what he's going to occupy in the center of the Eisenman Hall, a socio-sanitary technology centre. All right, too, with the reforms of the Health Act, it's allowed the Board to hire private companies — we're not talking about a public society anymore — that will be there. It's very curious, isn't it? And there are also other companies, such as Indra's own company, which also collaborates with the Government in the databases of drones of Rozas. Inaer also participates, which is curiously the head company of helicopter rentals. It's funny, in the City of Culture! But in the City of Culture the president, who said in 2013 "We will not build any more buildings," now announces an interuniversity administrative building, which has already been said here that goes to the detriment of, what, the R & D+i. In total, over the last ten years, they've stopped investing two hundred thirty-five million in R+D+i. Because they don't have to emigrate our researchers, because they don't have to be in the absolute precariousness of many teachers and many students who want to investigate, because we don't know what to do, because we drift. Well, he didn't fulfill his personal commitment. Gaiás, who would cost a barbarity, a hundred million euros, goes for the 300 million euros, to the detriment of what? To the detriment of this country's culture, to the detriment of culture! But that is not the end of the matter, if some ladies and gentlemen do not know, annual maintenance is nine million and peak, that is, 14% of all that is for culture in this country. Well, to talk about heritage, museums and libraries worry a lot about them, because you always introduce things a little dark by-law. And then the Urban Rehabilitation and Regeneration Act, we think it's a serious concern. And rehabilitation is also of the models used. Anyway, with respect to the foundation we've already said, it's a bottomless bag. The Fontán building is going to be, too, very expensive; we think it could be done otherwise. And I want to take advantage of now to put together the Galician Agency of Cultural Industries, which welcomes the entire ecosystem, the most important part of the ecosystem, i.e. the scenic arts, the musical arts, the visual arts and even an organism that might not have to be there, because it's more museum than the production center, which is the CGAC. And how much do you have? It's like to reformulate the entire Galician Agency of Cultural Industries. He's constantly been saying: industry must be boosted. There's a power up, there's a ten-and-a-peak increase -- which is good -- is 10.4% of the increase for the Tourism Agency. And do you know how much the increase for the Cultural Industries Agency is? 0,04 %. What a shame! Culture against lies, Counselor. Culture against lies! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Small production units, the Center of Dance on the floor. Now he's talking about a macro dance event. It's better if they wake up now! But there's the Galego Dramatic Center, a production center that should be -- as it has been said a thousand times -- the insignificant ship of this country, and it's down, there's an annual production. An absolute depurpose! What did Mr. Director of the Galician Agency of Cultural Industries do to avoid getting his nose in here? I mean, we really can empower the cultural industry by taking advantage of Xacobeo 21, of course! Well, nothing, let it all eat...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u13	...to the agency. So — and I end this first intervention — that Agadic has 11,721,000 euros for the whole profession, which is very professional and very mature. Music, performing arts and visual arts, very professional and very mature, are precarious, but with all dignity, because the cultural profession in this country is not soft and therefore maintains dignity. Volunteering, yes; professionalism, too; and an impressive effort for you to feel proud too, how we all feel about this sector that has been the worst treated since 2009 until now. Well, the comparative speaks for itself. The Galician Tourist Agency receives 64,184,000 euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u15	...speak the data.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u17	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, too, to the people who accompany us in the rostrum. Counselor, very good morning. Welcome to the full presence, on his own request, to explain the strategic lines of his counsellor's office, counsellor's re-creation, the Councillor's Office of Culture and Tourism, towards this new stage that opens. And the truth is that one -- even though time is going on and we've been here for a while and we're going to get to know each other and listen to each other and see what it's like to do everyone's politics. It's funny how on occasion it's always coming out of its amazement with certain interventions and certain perspectives and points of view of the political groups involved in this chamber. But, well, as it was said, we're on this show after having a budget show already last Monday. And it's funny because we're living that revival of budget appearance. But I thought — I had hope or I had the illusion — that after that budget appearance it would not simply be there to defend the unremovable positions that you have permanently, but that if you had made a reflection, that opposition groups would listen to what they were told, reflect and, at best, change their speech today. But I see that this is a utopia, unfortunately, a non-place. The speeches of the opposition remain unmovable, remain anchored in that catastrophic vision, in that pessimistic vision, in that vision, ultimately captive of Galicia; a Galician that paints them closed in itself, a Galician not proud of itself and, ultimately, a Galician that does not match for anything with Galician vision that has the rest of the citizenship. You continue to treat culture and tourism as static compartments, as if nothing had to do with tourism. He said the counselor at the beginning of his intervention, in a metaphor that seemed very appropriate and very interesting, that tourism and culture are the face and soul of the same body. Tourism and culture are faces and souls of the same body. In the same way that from the Cartesian perspective we talked about the communication of the substances of soul and body, how they were communicated through that pineal gland, let's say that in this case the Council of Culture and Tourism comes to exercise precisely the vehicle of communication between the soul and the face of Galicia, which are culture and tourism. In that sense, it seems to us that a plan of action is brought to this House with strategic lines — this set of actions that marked us by the advisor — that put the fencapé in planning, competitiveness, sustainability, singularity, accessibility, pride, balance, professionalization, innovation, internationalization... all fundamental issues to develop a cultural and tourist project of its own proud country as Galicia is. In that sense, I have to do a series of matings and precisions about the interventions that the rest of the groups have made because it's appealing to us. Mrs. Rodil, I'm going to start making a little reference to what you were saying, because you devoted an important part of your intervention to talking about the fact that it has not yet been fully developed the Plan for the dynamization of the Greek, the Greek language, in youth. Yes, yes, you say it in a low voice, but if we were really guided by the policies of BNG, today there wouldn't be that plan for the dynamization of the Greek language in youth because you were against the elaboration of that plan. They were initially against the development of the plan, and now they are recriminalizing that the plan is not fully developed. Look, coherence! We defend the development of this plan and continue to support the development of it, and in that sense it seems very positive to us that the counsellor of the need to create positive attitudes towards the language. Because in the end — I once said it and I think I'm going to have to repeat it — there is a very common mistake from the socio-linguistic perspective, which is to try to link the future of a language to the situation or the future of a political force. But if we try to link a language to a political force, we end up at risk that the fate of the language will follow the same path or destination as that political force. And in that sense — I say — we have a broad view: the Greek language is of all the Greeks. [[Applause]] The truth is, it made me funny that Jacob's comparison to a cultural monoculture. You were talking about the new monoculture -- a cultural eucalyptus, or something, I think you sketched out in your intervention. Look, this is a coat of hair, right? This is a coat of hair. He speaks of one of Galicia's economic motors, not only Jacob, but the whole tourism and cultural policy of Galicia, which — as the counsellor said in his speech — means 13% of the gross domestic product of this autonomous community and 15% of the employment of this autonomous community, and he wants to make that joke about speaking of a cultural monoculture, totally overlooking the resources that you call cultural monoculture and the impact that this has on society. You sometimes come here and make speeches filling your mouth with that you have to boost your own resources, boost our economy... Hey, but what better way to do it than by enhancing what we know works and has contrasted effects on our economy and our productive sectors? What better formula than that? Home!, of course, in the cultural sector... what happens is that I don't think they paid any attention to everything that was pointed out to them. We have talked about different measures in the different fields of culture and tourism to improve the current situation of culture and tourism in Galicia. They talked about measures, they gave them a lot of keys to what the Council understands, which must continue to improve these sectors at the moment they are; because they are at a time of growth, let's say the other day in the appearance of budgets. What's the matter is that you don't want to see him. Continue with the fear that Xacobeo is something like a mere village verbena. They continue with the fear that Galician heritage and culture and tourism have nothing to do with each other, that they are unique and exclusively totally different issues, pond compartments that do not relate to each other and that they have no effect on Galician economy and productive reality, and of course people who listen to them will be frightened; they will be frightened and will continue to see that there is no real alternative to government in Galicia. Because there is no alternative government project in Galicia more than four happy ideas that, in the end, they do it is to scare citizenship, because God free me to check what would be the effects of his proposals on Galicia's economic and productive reality! They were also horrifying, they did the three groups, they were already doing it in the intervention of budgets, and I thought — as I said before — that it would be reflected after that intervention and that, in the end, certain issues disappeared from the speech. But no, there it is, The Way Sound again. They are still stubborn over and over on the question of Road Sound, at the cost of Road Sound, 3 million euros, but they have completely forgotten the economic return of Road Sound that pointed to the advisor the other day in their intervention: 13 million euros. Put on the balance: investment, 3 million euros; economic return, 13 million euros. Do you consider it an inefficient investment? Well, there you are, I say. They are different perspectives, and in this tie with what Mrs. Cuña said, obviously. Of course we have different visions! Of course we have different country views! You said we could look at the country, or the reality of the country, through eyes with productive glasses or eyes with reflective glasses. Look, the problem is when our glasses are caught by these vapors that emanate from the hills of En Marea, which in the end they do is trick our glasses and they don't allow us to see the reality. You came here and began to decompose trying to send out veiled accusations. Yes, yes, yes, he did, sending out veiled accusations of fighting for the control of a public society. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why I tell you that at the end of the day, what I thought was that I was in the plenary of En Marea, which is where there are really fights for organ controls, for controls on the political reality of that group. [[Applause]] But, look, leaving a little joke aside because the question we're dealing with is quite serious, I would like you, if you really wanted to do a serious job for culture and tourism in Galicia, to change your perspective, to change your lenses, and to look at it from the lenses that all Galicia is looking at, from the lenses of the need for tourism and culture to be productive sectors, competitive sectors and sectors that ultimately give society the return of investments that are made in these sectors to improve their situation. By the end, just a reference to a question that also pointed to Mrs Burgo, who said in some way that the cultural perspective on tourism should be paramount in everything that has to do with heritage. I mean, we're gonna be a little strict too! You know perfectly well that in order to maintain the heritage you need funds, you need resources, of course, right? He said it, he said it in his intervention, well. You know that one of the fundamental lines of resource collection for heritage maintenance is precisely the funds coming from the European Union; you know, they've been the last twenty-five years. For you also know perfectly well that the European Union's funds for the maintenance of heritage mainly dominate the use of tourism. So what are we going to do? Are we going to deny reality, turn our backs on the road so that we can raise funds from the European Union for the maintenance of our heritage, giving it the use that we must give to our heritage? We understand that we have to go this way and this line to keep the heritage and put it in value. Because they look — and this is over — I told you the other day in our speech that we have a treasure in Galicia. Our heritage, our culture, is a treasure. And to put that treasure in value, we have to make it known to the world. And the formula for making this treasure known to the world is through investment in tourism policy that puts our cultural heritage in value. And that's what the Mr. Culture and Tourism Councillor came to explain today, which is going to be the way to follow the German Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u19	...to enhance our cultural heritage through policies of promotion, dissemination and to get to know our treasure all over the world. They're still in time. A proposal was launched by the Counsellor who you didn't mention in your speeches, which is the formation of this working group to work for the design, the manufacture, the Xacobeo 2021. They're still in time to change their perspective, change their perspective...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u21	...the glasses that Mrs. Cuña was talking about and getting close to work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u22	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u23	...for something that will be very important to the Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u24	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Replica, Councillor of Culture and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is that Mrs. Rodil is right about one thing and I'll give it to her. The cultural policy of the Block is different from that of the PP. That's what I think is very fortunate for Galicia, because the fact is that the cultural policy of the Block is already known, Mrs. Rodil. He met at the Galician Council during the Bipartite and he knows perfectly well in the municipalities and deputies where you are in charge. And if you seek plurality there, if you seek autonomy there, if you seek freedom there, if you seek no sectarianism there, you hardly meet it. That, really, is the way to make politics that they have always shown and demonstrated, and our politics is not. [[Applause]] I repeat, our politics is absolutely different from theirs. I'm also going to tell you, Mrs. Rodil... that you are usually, personally, good at making slogans. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I have listened to her on more occasions and I think she's a good Member in that regard. And he made a slogan concerning the cultural monoculture that also attracted the attention of the People's Party Member. I'll tell you one thing, we're not monoculture. And I'm going to tell you another: the culture practiced by the People's Party, which is open, which is free, that there is no directism, has deep, deep roots, like oaks, not like eucalyptus. And I'll tell you why. Because we bet and work every day with the basic culture: with the bands of music, with the most rural associations, with all the collectives that sink and support the basic culture. And that, from now on, You also bring here the collation to Mr. Fraga, and also I don't know what we have to land on, because a few days they say that Fraga is good and that they almost miss him, they often say that the Block misses the Strawberry, and other days they qualify as Atila; you have usually qualified them in their speeches, like Atila, with which we don't know what we're going to land on, or we don't know what reality the Block tells us in this field. You quoted a festival that was also cited, in general, by all of the opposition spokesmen, which is The Sound of the Way. Home!, I think you've talked a lot about this sound chamber of the Way. You're trying to throw a nebula of illegality. There's no one illegal about it at any time. And you, who care so much about employment, culture, cultural employment, the promotion of Galicia... when you give them the data, it's hard for them to answer. You know that more than 50 percent of the attendees were from outside Galicia, I told him the other day; that he generated a brutal hotel occupation not only in Santiago, but throughout the next circle; that he generated more than 850 jobs, of which more than 80 percent were with businesses and with Greek suppliers, and that he had an economic return about 13-15 million euros. If you know and obviously, we're really hiding data that's important to say. And it's also obvious that he's been awarded a prize recently, the day of his appearance, as Spain's best festival at the level of revelation. I think we should be proud of the good work that has been done. What's to improve? Of course. What do you need to fix some things? Of course. But I think it's a great cultural event, with an unquestionable tourist vocation. He goes on with his serial speech and questions the Galego Dramatic Center. We think the Galego Dramatic Center does a huge and very good job, with a tremendously professional and free management that makes co-productions and own productions that rotate around the country with remarkable success, but you adhere to your serial speech and little more we see. Mrs. Burgo, you and I are letters, but you are more letters than I am. And I'll tell you why. Because he told me several times that I've been a cultural advisor for five years. It's not true, I haven't been a cultural advisor for five years. I didn't mean it, but as I said so many times, I have to say no, that I have been cultural advisor since February -- I think I remember -- of the year 2015, but it's not five years, it's less. And of course, here you generate a nebula of confusion. First, you complain that we're planning Xacobeo 2021. Understanding how you did it, I also accept your criticism. We understand that, because you, by the year 2010, I think I remember you saying in this House that you left zero planning papers for Xacobeo 2010. An event that was so important to you, I really had it as they had it. And of course, they throw out some data that causes confusion, and I'd ask you to let us clarify. Libraries. Galicia has more than 500 libraries, more than 500 libraries! Autonomic management is perfectly equipped. They could have more means, obviously, but they're well equipped and they give a magnificent service. Of course, if you're talking about municipal libraries, I'm sure of many municipalities where PSOE governs, and says they're in bad shape, because I accept that criticism with pleasure, but you know that here we're managing autonomic libraries, not the places, to which, of course, we help remarkably. And we're preparing a plan to, in those municipalities where there's no library, get there with a travel library plan. But then you — let me tell you — came here to speak ill of the Greeks. He came here to speak ill of the Greeks. They don't go to the theater, they don't buy books, they don't read very little... you, at parliamentary headquarters, speak ill of the culture habits of the Greeks. And if it were true, we could still understand it, but it's a lie. That data you say is a lie. And look, in the Welsh culture strategy that is usually cited here, there are some data you should know about. I told you, 500 libraries. Other interesting information: the Greeks buy books above the average of Spain. You just said before you can't see. Well, we bought books over the average of Spain. In reading, in Galicia we are almost identical to the average of Spain. We have the densest bookstore network in Spain. We're the fourth autonomous community in total, when we demographically don't have that threshold. And in number of bookstores per 100,000 inhabitants, we are the first. It's also mentioned here that we're under all the indicators, and that's not true. And of course, it's the blame because it's the PP, of course, obviously! If you say people don't go to the theater, it's PP's fault, I don't have the slightest doubt and it's not the slightest doubt about society as a whole. We've known the culture of PSOE, it's a culture with lots of lights, with a huge amount of lights. And it's just as bad as you haven't talked about museums, because I believe that in the cultural policy of the museums -- I'm not going to quote any city not to cause any harm -- the Socialist Party really shines absolutely on Prince Street. [[Applause]] We're being accused of propaganda. Look, I'm going to assure you that as cultural advisor at no time am I going to introduce myself to a group or to a performance promoted by the Galician Board at any event or under any circumstances. We're not bringing in groups, we don't like that kind of propaganda, we're not going to do it. With which, really, you say it so cheerfully, you should have at least a little discretion on some matters that you're saying. And of course, tell us about heritage, about cultural heritage. All right! There are some cities that you know very well that the care given to the Way of Santiago — the heritage of humanity — that passes through that city is zero, or even duty is left. And of course, I'd like you to get here and say: the Socialist Party, at the level of government, will support the rehabilitation of the whole heritage, as the minister said, by the way. No money. You'll have to put your bills down, but that's something the minister said. Even the deputations, or the municipalities, that can rehabilitate heritage. Because that, the rehabilitation of the heritage, is not a single issue of the Autonomous Community. No, no, no, I own the property. And all public administrations, by legal mandate, have an obligation to defend, rehabilitate, promote and value our heritage. Together does it. Other administrations... good. And you're also talking about a matter where you're gonna let me fix it. You have just said here that the tax reliefs that come into force today are thanks to Mr. Sánchez. Tax reliefs that last for the first time three years to capture the private resource, the private sponsorship, for the execution of Xacobeo. I will tell you, Your Honor, that the tax cuts were in a law of budgets drawn up by the People's Party, at the request of the Galician Union, and that Mr. Sánchez voted against that budget, although today he uses it and it seems he will want to continue to use it. But don't say that's thanks to Mr. Sanchez. Home!, Government Sánchez has continued to file a request which is in budgets and which, of course, it is his duty to make. But don't say it's thanks to Mr. Sánchez's management, who, by the way, voted against the fact that three-year evictions to the James James are being launched. And of course, I've also noticed a great deal of concern about the organization of the Holy Year. I'm telling you what I told you earlier, it's unfortunate that in 2010 the Socialist Party didn't have that concern, when they arrived at zero euros from the Socialist Government at that time, and when the President of the Government, throughout the Holy Year, Jacob, he didn't have a morning or an afternoon to come to Galicia. If that's the Socialist Party's concern about an autonomous community and about a set of feelings and a great event like the Way of Santiago, the contempt that was made at that time, I hope it's not at this. But, really, that you also talk about a lot of dedication and that it's fundamental, it clearly contradicts the previous one. Mrs. Burgo, you've also made a little clique about the announcements that are made, within Galicia, of Galicia's tourist promotion. It worked, but I'll tell you that a very high percentage of the tourism that exists in Galicia is internal tourism. A lord of Lalin who may go to Lugo or to the Navy, and a lord of the Navy who may go to the river of Vigo. And this is very important, it is very important that there is internal promotion, because if we are not able to value the cultural, landscape and tourist resources that we have within Galicia, at best the internal tourism of Galicia goes to us, and it is fundamental to keep it, especially in non-summer times; that is, in times when it is necessary to unseasonate the offer. And I'm sure if you knew this data, I wouldn't say so. As for the Marea spokeswoman, I've told her with all my affection in the past audience that they were doing politically childish exercises when they compared today's budgets to the year 2008, with 2009 and even with the year 2010, when we were already implementing, planning and executing Xacobeo itself. There's obviously something we don't agree on, and that's neither good nor bad; we don't. You have an idea of what tremendously pejorative tourism is. Greek tourism isn't how you see it. The vast majority of Welsh tourism is a quiet, family tourism, with a very important cultural base. It's not a tourist we're taking through the balconies, that's not our tourist model. What we are concerned about, where the tide has some kind of responsibility, are the measures they want to take, because they are always measures aimed at reducing, to what is less, lowering tourism, as if it were bad, being fees, being moratoriums... gives the feeling that you want to lower the tourist activity, that it's sad that you close hotels, that you close restaurants, and then manifest yourself because these restaurants and hotels are closed. Sometimes it gives that feeling, because all the lines of work they do are geared towards reducing an economic sector that generates a very significant percentage of German GDP, a very significant percentage of our employment and which has a direct link with cultural activity in an unquestionable way. Our tourism model — I insist — is not the model of getting out of the balconies, which exists in other areas of Spain. Really, in Galicia it's neither ours nor ours, and we hope it never will be. You also raised a criticism of the City of Culture. We've been criticising the City of Culture for many years, but frankly we're already faced with a consolidated model, a model where they develop a lot of activities, where there are professionals working and who are becoming more and more internalized in citizenship. I'll give you one example. Yesterday, a very bad day, it rained. In addition to being around 500 people working on different cultural and technological projects, some linked to health, as you well say — that I don't see why this project is bad — an event was held yesterday in the City of Culture where there were 800 children from around the world in a global chess championship. That generates an important transcendence to the country. But there was also an exhibition of people with disabilities, about 150 people, who exhibited their works there and were visiting the City of Culture. For you, the City of Culture is like a kind of mantra, and sometimes I don't know if they speak from ignorance, if they really know what they're working on and developing there, or if they do it just because they play, because they play. He's talking about transfers. You know, I don't know if at the time, Mrs. Cuña, you were in the block or where you were fighting, or I don't care, but I'm going to give you a report on the economic transfers that the self-government was making to the City of Culture. The year in which most autonomous transfers were to the City of Culture was 2008, 80 million euros. Counsellor of the Culture Council, the Block. That's the data, it's the data: in 2008, 80 million transfers made by an autonomous government in which the area of culture was managed by the Nationalist Block of Wales. And of course, it says the Fontán building is expensive. One question, have you quantified approximately, only about, how much can it be the cost of an urban solar with parking and with all the services: sewerage, security, electricity, stick to the highway and practically on the edge of a city? Only the cost of that plot would land any criticism of the economic cost of Fontán, which, by the way, is an inter-university building of R+D+i as it exists on many Greek campuses. Research centres, technological centres, which are funded by the same funds as this one. So what's wrong? The center itself, co-financed by the university, or the location? Because here it feels like it's just bad he's there. If this interuniversity center of what the three universities are going to participate in, where there will be research groups in areas of knowledge such as the landscape, such as geography — which is my area — like the economy, like art, like heritage, etc., would it be wrong for you? Or are they just criticizing her being in a location perfectly inserted into a cultural complex like the City of Culture, with economic services and urban services beside her that make it much cheaper? Because, if it really is, I also accept it. I'll say they're wrong but I accept it. But that they are constantly questioning this bet of the university and the board of Galicia for the creation of an interuniversity reference center in a field of knowledge that did not exist in Galicia, where basic services will be placed to favor the creation of a Greek university system as the Consortium can be, as may be the ICG etc., actually leave its argumentary far away. And of course, there's always a black view. There seems to be no confidence on the part of this country's culture or tourism, that there is hardly any confidence in what we are, and there are very many professionals, and very good, in the cultural fields, very good!, with a lot of merit and a lot of capacity, and also in the tourism field, which generate a huge amount of jobs. I told you it's very difficult to separate, in a model like Greek, both realities. There are purely tourist issues, obviously, and purely cultural issues. But there is a great framework of relationship between both worlds that clearly justifies what we are talking about, and the clearest example is Jacob, is the Way of Santiago. Because what is the Way of Santiago more than a historical cultural fact, with a Christian root, based on the pilgrimage of hundreds, thousands, millions of people to a World Heritage city as is Compostela? If you don't see culture there and you don't see interrelationship between the two worlds, I take the metaphor of the spokesperson for the People's Party and I talk again about the wrong perception that you can sometimes have when we want to see the world in a different way than what it is. And to finish, ladies and gentlemen, you didn't surprise me by your speech because we've seen it too, just over a week ago, in the budget appearance, and I'm getting more and more calm because, listening to you, we're getting more and more sure that we're on the right track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u26	Thank you, Counselor. Before spokespersons, we greet the students and students of 4th ESO of the IES Manuel García Barros of the Road. Welcome to Parliament. And now yes, you have the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u27	Thank you, President. Welcome, too, to all the people who are now on the bench. We're not surprised, it was all about what was planned, neither did you. I don't know, Counselor, if you did it so badly last Monday that you had to repeat it now at the plenary for the second time. But it's always nice — and we've also told you in that audience — to be able to talk about cultural politics. [[Applause]] We have recovered — as I have been claiming for the past few years — the Council of Culture, and now what we lack is filled with content; cultural policies, we are waiting for them. I'll give you the reason, too. Look, today we're going out with something that we agree with the BNG and in this case the People's Party, represented in the Galician Union: the cultural policy of the BNG and the People's Party are absolutely different. We didn't fully agree with that. [[Applause]] We worked, defended, developed and when we had the opportunity — and still in other places — to carry out that political project and these cultural policies, we did so, and we always did it from a perspective of transparency and democracy, which there was little, when the IGAEM existed, didn't we?, that always bet on the social dimension of culture, because culture is something more than an economic resource. Culture is a right that also generates wealth and has a dimension of social transformation as well. Always in permanent work, in constant dialogue with people, with agents and entities representing the different cultural sectors, many born at that very time to look for these synergies and that dialogue with the Galician Union. A cultural policy that bets on the creative and productive capacities of our culture, our language and our identity, but not when Jacob arrives, because you seem to have been reminded that there was culture and cultural sectors in this country when he was at the door, at three years old, that Jacob 2021. What have you been doing all this time, we've been asking ourselves since the BNG? What about the work of the Galician Union, of cultural policies, for all these nearly ten years? And, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you the answer: nothing. It's nothing. You criticized the cultural policy of the BNG when you had government responsibilities at the Galician Summit, but they shouldn't have done so bad, since in most of the structures and the policy framework in cultural politics of this country you maintained what the Government of the Galician Nationalist Block, the government of the bipartisan at that time. The Law of the Book of 2006; the Sceneic Arts Plan of what I was telling you about, that you put it in a drawer and let it die by starvation, year 2008; the Galaga Agency of Cultural Industries itself, which also dates back to that time; the Galego Coreographic Center, which you also cited, was born at that time as well; marks of internationalization or projection of cultural industries with regard to music, for example GalicianTunes. There were many projects, the problem is that you let it stop the time. I mean, we've been waiting for ten years for you to explain to us what your cultural policy is, and it seems now, that the lights from Xacobeo show up, it reminded them that they had to develop an integral policy, a strategic policy and a planned policy, which, on the other hand, has been something that they've been demanding from the culture sector for many years. He questioned how to rule the BNG. He also made explicit reference to the deputy. We are so sectarian that, in the MPs in which the Galician Nationalist Block is located, the municipal governments of the People's Party never had access to as many resources as objectively and transparently as through the Single Plans. Ask them, ask them, they never had access to so many. [[Applause]] And even I liked it when I brought the collation to the Crown Deputy, so that we could get an idea of what the cultural policy of the Galician Nationalist Block and the People's Party is different. In cinema, music, stage arts festivals... only in the province of the Coruña, through the funds led by the Crown Deputies, the double — in the municipalities of the province of the Coruña — has been invested from which he sent the Council of Culture to Galicia through the Council of Culture for the whole country. That's the difference. If you want to make cultural policies, the first thing you have to put on the table, Mr. Rodríguez, are budgets, and I already told you in my first intervention. Why were we talking about monoculture? Not cultural monoculture, I'll make you the reference of that monoculture because you don't see anything else, you see nothing else! and the three-quarters of his intervention so they stopped him from manifesting it. The only thing that's here in 2021 is that Xacobeo Year, and we say that, beyond the Xacobeo 2021, we have cultural sectors that need budgets, that need planning, that need momentum throughout the year to continue to guarantee that right that is culture, that it also generates an important wealth. Just in relation to some of the issues I was talking about — I am finished with this, President — the spokesperson for the People's Party, as catastropheists, that is the argument that we have here today within Parliament by the People's Party. You tell him at the CDG address, that he has no resources to get his proposals and projects forward. And at the last public event, where you were precisely the counsellor with the CDG's leadership, he was told that they needed to get out of this ostracism to which they have been relegated, come back armored with public resources to make the Galego Drama Center what it must have never ceased to be, which is the National Theatre and the great motor of the scenic arts of our country. In relation to linguistic policy, which has not been cited again — and with this indeed ended — we are not against the Standardization Plan, we are questioning that day was their linguistic policy, and I'm going to give them an example of yesterday itself. I don't know if Mr. Valentín García will be seeing us through the screens, I hope so, but yesterday the Secretary General of Linguistic Policy appeared at the Ramón Piñeiro center publicly promoting a guide of chemical elements in the Welsh language. There was the Secretary General of Linguistic Policy. Physics and Chemistry is prohibited from imparting them in English in this country, since 2010, by its Decree of Plurilingualism that is what we are absolutely against. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You're right, Counselor, I've been wrong with the years you've been in. It's just that they last me so long that you've been in the government, that I can't count anymore! It's true. [[Applause]] I understand that as you want to recover that year I took it off, that year it will end everything and make it all perfect. Because if I had it, I'd be ready. Look, I'm right about this, but I have to tell you that I've also been very worried about some of your words, Counselor. The indicators of cultural habits that I say are from the Galeg Culture Observatory, are official data. And if you don't worry about Galicia having those cultural indices, I do care a lot about you going through that and making a joke about it. Look, Counsellor, one of the most important tasks of a Government in culture is to consolidate the public; it's to increase audiences in all branches and sectors; it's to be loyal to the public, because culture is done for something, for someone, needs an audience in front of them. Do you know why they say the Galicians and the Greeks who don't go to the theater? Because they don't have any infrastructure near their homes that put theater works into operation. Besides, you have that obligation, which you haven't done, there's not a single policy of public loyalty, or public growth, nor in children, which is also very worrying. So I'm worried that you don't think that's your business. He talks a lot about synergies in tourism and culture, and I give him the reason, there are very important synergies. And I'm going to tell you again one that's a good proof of that: the Museum of Romanization, Lugo. It's a fundamental cultural infrastructure from the historical and museographic point of view, and also a tourist claim. You've been promising this museum since 2009, Counsellor, since 2009! There's nothing, and you refuse to say whether or not they will. You will understand, Mr. Counsellor, that although I wish — and above all with you, you know that I want to believe it — I cannot believe what they say because, over and over again, they do not fulfill their promises, and this is one of them. But I hope that when they do — because I want to keep believing that they will — they do culture and not tourism. It's a tourist equipment, but it's basically an infrastructure, and the Romanization Museum that has to do it is Culture. And I want to know whether they're going to do it or not. I want to tell you too -- I didn't talk about why I was going to talk now -- about the Sound of the Way, because The Sound of the Way is indicative of two things, Counselor. One, what cultural form do you want to give to Jacob? Only unique events with a lot of money and big stars at the heel? Is that what they want? But Road Sound has another problem, which is the way it was handled. I imagine you want to stay legal. If everything was legal, Counselor, if everything was the way it should be, why am I still waiting for the Way Sound file? Because I asked for article 9 six months ago and you don't send it. What do you have to hide in those sets of conditions and in that file you don't give? Because if everything is legal, why can't the opposition read it? Can you answer that or send me that file? Will the Sound of the Way be made this way, with a negative impact on Greek cultural companies because it gives the monopoly of many millions to one? You know that's happening. But where's the file? Another thing we can't believe, because we can't believe in you, is that we're going to do this again from the big events and from the fronts to the heel. Look, Counselor, it's very hard to forget that an autonomous government has allocated 300,000 euros to a video clip by Enrique Iglesias, because that's what you did in Tourism and we were the douche bag of all tourist administrations. Of course! Because, who does it happen to?, 300,000 euros! There's much less money than €300,000 for musical festivals, 250,000. With those background do you want us to believe that they're going to make another policy now? They will, of course, at least prove it, and take care of what is also really important on the Way, which is the maintenance of the Way, which is the defense of all roads.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u31	I'm done. You know that there are very critical actions being done on some of the roads, for example, on the primitive road. The Road Forum is denouncing Icomos the use of asphalt and the entry of machines on this Way. You want to disappear the singularity of every Way and make them all the same, like roads, with both width and zapour or asphalt. That's not to protect the Way, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u33	And that's one of your basic tasks. I'm sorry I can't keep talking to you because there's a lot to do and a lot to talk about Jacob and culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u35	I think it's very clear that there are different models and that it's very important to keep them in mind. A neoliberal model, which seeks business, business, business and business, profitability, and which, of course, only publicizes its pacts with private companies if someone asks it, even if it has the legal obligation to disclose them all. This start-up. Then their approach is absolutely productive and our approach is pro-common, it's an abysmal difference. What they've been demonstrating all these years is a null commitment to the culture of this country and to the complete ecosystem. If not — I insist — from 141 million to 71.9. This is not infantilism, this is objective data. And if you ever listened, I'd have some answer. Do you think it's very good that culture spending is half ten or eleven years ago? You all right? There are ten, there are nine, there are eight, it was much better. And does it seem to you that recovery is meaningful and beneficial? Does it seem good to you that to normalize our language is worth 8,788,000 euros? You all right? Do you think this doesn't directly mean a loss of speakers? Does that aggression seem good to you? Does that predation sound good to you? Because this is aggression and predation! You'll say, they have a dark and apocalyptic vision. No, sir, dark and apocalyptic no, it's a vision with objective data, and then you jump up with statements that cannot be trivialized, please! Of course we have rich sectors, very important! It's not the problem that there are no trained, qualified people, who are able to make big projects. Well-designed projects, not like the Strategic Plan of Culture, which the Galician Culture Council itself has made a lot of doubts. He literally said that basic indicators were needed; that there is a shortage of qualitative studies; that it is advisable to be realistic; that institutional cultural policies simply, but otherwise; that there is positive discrimination, indeed, towards professionalization; and that there is a need to avoid, above all, fragmentation of the sectors. Language development, data. We continue with the data, powerful data. You were talking about internationalization, for example. By setting the example of the book, they help you and they add 30,000 euros so you can go to international fairs. If it seems to you to contribute to this, it's okay. In local corporations, when I was talking about 10 points, I was also talking about sustainability, singularity, inclusion, pride, balance. Speaking of territorial balance, there's no more to see the provincial budgets to see that Lugo and Ourense are in line. Ourense, the only council governed by the PP and the only council that doesn't even approve the budgets, it's a shame! But you always have to put forward the municipalities where they don't rule. Put, for example, the Council of Ourense and look at the territorial theme in comparison. With regard to the Galaga Agency of Cultural Industries, Counsellor, you have already been portrayed year and a half ago, when I told you: Please tell us what is the memory of the Agency, which have legal obligations! The Galician Agency of Cultural Industries has a legal obligation to put in front of a memory. You brought me a book of activities, a compilation of activities. So who is not well informed, Counselor?, do you or us? With regard to cultural industries, of course, if they really want potential, budgets increase. Tell me that the Galego Dramatic Center — that, by the way, we will look for more, but there are irregular contracts in recent productions — works as a marvel, it's not having feet on the floor. Since we don't have much more time, please don't trivialize, let's take the matter to heart. Of course, cultural tourism is important for a country, cultural tourism! But they don't sell as a motorcycle that generates many jobs because the jobs it generates are precarious and stationary. It's an increase, of course!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u37	...but when they talk about return, the return is not for their own culture. Tell us, Counselor, is this return to whom it benefits? Please tell us this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u39	The questions we have to ask. I know you won't answer anything, which is your general tone, but please look for it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u41	Thank you very much, President. Good day to all of you again. It is clear that there are different models and that we have different perspectives and points of view, and probably many irreconcilable issues, because, as much as we try — which is tried from the Government of Galicia and also from this group — to do pedagogy to try to transfer a realistic vision of what the situation of the productive sectors in Galicia is, from the opposition, to try again and again to flout those shadows of doubt. Mrs. Cuña, come back up here and throw back shadows of doubt on another issue, on recruitment processes. That's not a wise way for us to make politics, you'll see! Of course there are different models. There are similar models, models closed in themselves, models that don't go out and don't listen to what citizenship says. And then there are models that are in line with citizenship. You have made an account of the kindnesses — Mrs Rodil has done so — of the political or cultural model of the Bipartite. He gave an account of the theoretical kindnesss of that cultural model. That's why I'm telling you that there are similar models and others connected to citizenship. It was so valuable that on the first time the Greeks had to talk about what they thought of him, they said, "Get out! It was so valuable that this cultural model was rejected by Greek citizenship on the first occasion it had to do so. So, hey, if you want to keep defending him, defend him! We're going to continue to work and defend models that listen to citizenship, stick to citizenship and connect us with the needs and wishes of citizens. That's the model that's being applied from the German Government in recent years and that's also giving positive results on all the indicators, although you don't want to see it. They were saying that there is not enough budget for the Council of Culture and Tourism. They were talking about something like that in today's intervention, we weren't talking about budget allocation. We talked about budgets last week and you saw what was the growth of the budget of the Council of Culture and Tourism. You even congratulated yourself in that intervention — some of you — on the increase in resources for cultural and tourism policies. So now they don't try to move an image other than what they said the other day. Look, they're still having a very small vision of what Jacob is. Actually, anyone who listens to them seems to want to transfer that image of parish party or village verbena. Xacobeo is an event that fortunately we only have in Galicia, which is nowhere else in the world, which over 365 days a year allows us to be in the maximum projection window at national and international level. That's Xacobeo. Do you continue to relativize the value and importance of this window, of a window that benefits you? Who will benefit! Galicia! A showcase that benefits Galicia, gentlemen! [[Applause]] And they must not forget that the people who arrive in Galicia eat in a restaurant in Galicia, sleep in a hotel in Galicia, are cared for by service workers who are Germans and Greeks. [[Applause]] With reference to Road Sound, shows and so on, I was talking to Mrs. Cuña about precarious and stationary jobs. Look, the most precarious and stationary job is the one that doesn't exist. That's the most precarious and stationary work, which doesn't exist. That's for starters. [[Murmurs.]] You, from the left, know perfectly well the models of non-existent jobs, because it's your political model over many years: to generate workers who don't work; that is to say, to generate unemployment. That's what we've been used to for a very long time. But let's go back to the Sound of Way. We're back, yeah, we're collecting data. I said it in the first intervention and I say it again now: 3 million investments, 13 million euros return. For whom do those 13 million euros go back? For the workers and workers who work there, companies all of them in Galicia, at 80 % suppliers — Mr. Counsellor — for hospitality, for commerce, for transport... all of the production sectors in Greece that benefit from an investment made in an event that allows to arrive in Galicia; 50% of the people who were in that event were from outside Galicia. Doesn't that sound reasonable to you? Well, continue with your model, that model that the Greek citizen doesn't want. Look — and I am finished with this, Mr President — today I would like to thank the Counsellor who has come here, to Parliament's plenary session, for explaining to us what the strategic lines of action of his advisor in these years will be to enhance and dynamize tourism and culture in Galicia. They have a clear objective, they know what the goal is. They have a road with ten stops or stations, as you told us in your first intervention. Now, if I tell you one thing, Counselor, unfortunately, in the opposition you won't have traveling companions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u42	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Close the show, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, appearances always give us surprises. Today we've seen a BNG spokesperson standing up for Members, and a concrete deputation, where he sees one part of the cultural sectors and he doesn't see the other. Because the cultural sectors, not all of them, but some cultural sectors in the province of Coruña and the city of Coruña, are bitterly concerned about the specific orientation of the Council of Coruña. That's something that's found in the media. I'm not going to go into whether they're right or not, but let's be glad that the BNG defends the deputies in this case. Look, you basically made a reproduction of what was the debate over budgets, the appearance of budgets. I made a valuable description of the 2019 budgets for this council, but there are many issues that I announced today in this appearance, which has a longer vision than the attendance of budgets, which you haven't mentioned. No member of the opposition quoted him. No one mentioned the Plan for the Improvement of Tourist Accommodation. We don't know if they're against or in favor. We'll know it over time when we present it. A plan that is very important to improve the supply of tourist accommodation and improve the quality and tourist services directed to people who — as Mr Fernández has said — come to leave economic resources in Galicia and, by extension, to generate a lot of jobs. If it's true that I talked about the BIC Plan at that meeting, but here I also talked about a program that we're going to do to develop inclusion actions in the field of culture and tourism which seems to have not been of interest because they haven't mentioned it either; or the Galicia Sabe programme, which is going to be very important to dynamize our local products, nearby products, of enormous quality; or the cultural itineraries that we're going to put in motion based basically on the small historical helmets, because we have a network of small historical helmets in small cities in the country — I quoted Betanzos, Tui, the Mondoñedo — on a very high level, but it hasn't been cited anywhere. Nor did you come to debate at any time the Bureau that we want to put, together with the state, to plan in time something that will entail a major change to Galicia at the level of internal mobility and external mobility, which is a table to go ordering and to go predict how the arrival of the AVE and how the Xacobeo will modify the flow of population throughout the territory. On these issues, which we understand keys to improving the sustainability of the country and preparing for the next day, no opposition spokesman has heard him say anything. The key, basic questions, to plan, to prepare, to do the duties for 2021, nobody said them. But not just by 2021, but by the next day by 2021. That really denotes a very cicadare vision of what you see in this field of public management. And of course, Mrs. Burgo says the data she cites are from the Council of Culture. Mine too, mine too! Mine don't match theirs. So here something fails, and you kept insisting that the Greeks have bad cultural habits and insisting that the blame is for the Government, obviously. Look, we are very concerned about the cultural habits of the Greeks and the Greeks, they are very concerned about us, so we work very hard in the basic culture as a fundamental goal to enhance the pride of ourselves, because the basic culture is to be proud of our own, but also to be able to create future consumers of culture, future users of culture in the educational field. It's not my responsibility right now, but there's a huge job, for example, in the world of school libraries to promote linguistic habits in the educational world. It doesn't seem to exist. Or by promoting the programming networks driven by Agadic in collaboration with the municipalities, which only last year generated more than 1,000 functions scattered throughout the territory of Galicia. And of course, tell us that in Galicia there are no cultural infrastructures. Well, I think Galicia has one of the best networks of audiences, cultural houses, cultural infrastructures in any part of Spain, because almost every village and every village has a top level cultural equipment. What's to improve? No doubt, it needs to be improved. Are some obsolete? No doubt. But I'd like to know which autonomous community has a network of cultural infrastructures as important as Galician. I'd like to know, because we'd probably take a surprise. I'm going to ask for the data, which will probably surprise us. And of course, here it looks like there's... I'm not going to say a phobia, but yes it's like a refusal to tourism. You quote the Museum of Romanization and say, don't do Tourism. Caramba!, if you go to the Louvre or go to Prado, what do you see in these cultural facilities? Tourists. So it's really amazing that kind of subliminal message that tourists are bad, as if they weren't people who are consuming a cultural asset and as if they weren't people, families, etc., who are enjoying leisure, leisure time and generating resources for the localities where they are. It's quite surprising. And of course, you kept talking about libraries. There are cities where some municipal governments took more than ten years to make libraries, convert libraries, and leave more than 20,000 potential users without books, according to press information. And that fact that, obviously, is municipal responsibility, not the self-government, is not mentioned. The festivals have an enormous economic, cultural and tourist impact. Just go, when the festivals are celebrated, a few days before the Viveiro, the Nigrán, the Roundup, the Boimorto, among others, to see the economic impact, the cultural force and the power that has the network of the galesque festivals and that we have undoubtedly supported, without a doubt, with direct orders and also with a program that we started last year, which has had a very good impact, which was the Galician Fest. And of course, they're still with a serious speech, and I don't really want to tell them, but it almost leads me to tell them, they talk about Talonary culture. There's a project that's trying to sell as a culture too, which costs 4.5 million euros, and it's true that it's going to leave very well lit streets. And that you question an investment like that of the Road Sound, when your highest political representative at the Greek level speaks of an impact and an investment of 4.5 million euros, really leaves it in the wrong place. Just as we should be more cautious when it comes to protecting our heritage. I would ask you, Mrs. Burgo, with all the affection and respect I have, that if you have a hand to try to convince two socialist mayors who want to put a cannon in the Sil cannons, two socialist mayors, one from Lugo and another from Ourense, if you can do something, tell them not to go that way, that they don't put a cannon, because that's really something frankly fantastic. Mrs. Cuña, neoliberal model, predation, private companies, precariousness... nothing new under the sun! We know there's nothing new under the sun in this speech. I do tell you that culture, like all public services in this country, in recent years have had a time of real suffering, many of them hung by clamps: education, health, support for work. Everyone, hey! Some say it was PP's fault. No, no, the PP had to manage the causes, but from a political point of view there were some consequences that led to those causes. And culture is true that it has fallen economically, but it's also no less true that in the last three years we've been on an economic growth path. We're growing economically in all culture budgets with much higher than the average than the budget of the Galician Union, and these are empirical data that we have neither to comment on, are real data. And of course, you tell me about the Strategic Plan of Culture, and you say that the Council of Culture is critical. But the Galeg Culture Council is a partner in this project of ours. The diagnosis of what we are talking about, and we seem to be questioning something in which we are, as I said, partners. The truth is, on the one hand, he said at the last end of my intervention that I walk quietly, but I also go a little sad and worried. And I say why. Because it gives the feeling, what we hear in this House, that opposition groups, which have a huge, very important political and social function, which represent a very large percentage of the Greeks and the Greeks, don't care about a sector that mobilizes a very high percentage of the German GDP and mobilizes to a very high percentage of the German employment. I'm going to tell you, and I'm also telling Galicia, that the Government of Unity is concerned about us and we're very interested in boosting an economic sector as important and as vital to Galicia as tourism, and clearly associated with culture. We know that a tourism with a Greek model is also a drag engine for our culture, for our cultural sectors. That's why we understand that the project we have ahead, which is a long-term project, is not a short-light project, it's a long-light project, where we're already working on planning the year 2021, but also working on planning post 2021, it's an absolutely country project. I said it at first, we want to have a solid project and a future. We have the defined strategic lines, we have specific targets defined, and we have concrete actions to carry them out. And I think, ladies and gentlemen, here allow me a certain contradiction with the spokesperson for the People's Party, I hope so. I hope that the opposition parties: the Socialist Party, the Nationalist Block and the Marea or the Marea-We can, as it is called, join in positive to this great project, which aspires to be a project beyond political formation and which aspires to be a country project and power, in some way, to have all together a line of work. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u44	Thank you, Counselor. Second point of the agenda, motions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Silence! Motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece on roads
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u45	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block and the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u46	To formulate the motion, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Cal, be quiet. Mr. Álvarez Martínez, you have the floor. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, our parliamentary group is presenting a motion as a result of the request made to the Councillor for Infrastructure and Mobility at the last plenary session, and also — although not as a consequence of the House Rules of Procedure — of the question asked to the President of the Council of Galicia on the fulfilment of the MOVE Plan. They both explicitly recognized that the MOVE Plan had failed, as it was conceived, and that is why I too, paraphrasing Mr. Culture and Tourism Counsellor, I complain bitterly — surely in vain — of what is happening with a program that was pure propaganda and hard to know. And as my partner, Mr. Losada, told the Infrastructure Advisor, in 2010 they already had to know what was in relation to debts, income from the autonomous community, etc. And that's why this plan was still propaganda. They're going to give me, I'm quite sure, a serial response -- something that also repeated by the counselor on several occasions about the speech of both the Socialist Group and the Galego Nationalist Block and En Marea -- and they're going to talk to me about the inherited debt, about the mismanagement of the previous governments, about the terrible history that left the Bipartite after 2009. But I also wanted to say here, in character prior to this intervention, that you owe it to Mr Feijóo, who has already left, who has multiplied by seven debts existing in the Autonomous Community when he took over the Government. It increased by 6,400 million euros. And as a result of all this, logically, we have to pay more debt. And the clear fact that this is the case is that in the budgets currently under discussion for 2019, 37% of the chapter for debt payments is increased. That's the reality, that's also the serial speech that the People's Party has. Finally, in this motion that we are presenting today, we are talking about the Strategic Road Management and Mobility Plan, the one known as Plan Move, which had, as we all know, a development horizon between 2010 and 2020. I had several goals, but the three fundamentals were improving road safety, increasing investment in maintenance in our infrastructures and improving the accessibility of the territory. We will also be told that today 83% of the population in Greece is less than 15 minutes away from a high-performance route. But the fact is that in Mr Feijóo's first government, in 2009, the initial plan was designed, which later changed in October 2010, and cut him 621 million euros, nothing less than 621 million euros over the 4,265 planned. But these forecasts — the second ones of the year 2010 — that covered, as I said, until 2020, were not met; for most of the planned infrastructures are pending their development. Simply at the level of numerical comment, it is difficult to discuss, because it is also data that is extracted from Galicia's own documentation. In October 2010 we had 334 kilometers of high-performance pathways, or high-capacity pathways, in this autonomous community; and in July 2018 we had 497. This last data is extracted from what the council itself has published on its website on the autonomic network of roads in Galicia. It means that in eight years 163 kilometers were built — approximately 20 per year — of which a very important part was already being auctioned. From the rest of the typologies provided by Plan Move, the basic primary network and the complementary and secondary primary network, we don't talk, because they're the same as in 2010. So we've run 29% of the 565 that originally anticipated Plan Move. We've done 163, and, as I said, structural pathways, nothing at all. For example, it is enough to mention the decoupling of the high-performance route between Brión and Noia. It was scheduled for the end of 2015 and there's nothing done right now. From the west belt in the metropolitan area of Santiago there's nothing done, except partially a stretch. The route and high benefits Tui-A Guard is begun, but on it Mr. Losada also asked at the last full and said there was a place to become instead of tourist interest, considering that there was an explanation in which they would soon nest birds. From the collapse of the high-performance route between Nadela and Sarria we know, yes, that in 2019 they will begin processing the papers, the road documentation. Practically, from the route of high benefits north, from the north coast, there has been nothing done except a recently inaugurated stretch between Celero and Jupiter. And so all the rest of the plan, this is reality. He said that if we were going to talk about investments, but it is true that in the investment chapter, the programme for the construction of these infrastructures was in 2009 — which was budgeted by the Bipartite — EUR 449 million. In 2010, which was already planned by the government of Mr Núñez Feijóo — with the knowledge that they should have at least the economic situation of the autonomous community — 419 million euros; that is, almost the same amount. But in 2011 it was reduced to 299, i.e. 29% of the budget for the previous year. What makes us suppose the budget project of this autonomous community for the year 2019? Not more of the same but less of the same, because with a reduction over the year 2018 of 7 million euros you can expect that the conclusion, the impulse to the Move plan, will remain absolutely nothing. As for road planning, which should be the instrument through which we all have known which are the strategic lines that will follow the Government of Galicia's board of directors, what will be built, when it is going to be built, with what purpose, with what criteria, etc., the Plan Director of Galicia's roads is neither expected nor expected. It is neither expected nor expected because, although we have published it in Law 8/2013 of Galicia's roads with the corresponding modifications, we are told that road planning is developed through two instruments: first, the Plan Director of Galicia's roads and, second, the sectoral road plans. We haven't done anything since 2013 to comply with this law that has approved a People's Party government, government that is particularly specialized in publishing laws, processing them with a maximum guarantee, maximum speed, maximum objectivity and maximum precision, but that then they are absolutely useless because none of them is met. In this case I'm talking about this Galician Road Law. This road-director plan in Galicia, which is the multi-annual planning of actions on roads that aim to make different administrations, did not happen at any time in Parliament, nor did the road-director plan pass or, of course, passed the sectoral road plans. It seems reasonable that, within the planning that an absolute majority government can do, it should be reported with transparency. Because no one is going to take a coma out of the planning he makes, simply because of the existence of that absolute majority; but it seems reasonable that the rest of the political forces, the rest of the population of the entire autonomous community, know when certain infrastructure actions will be carried out. It's so common sense that it's even published in a law that, as I said, it's passed by the People's Party. But this law still doesn't develop. This Parliament is still absolutely stalled, because it remains absolutely horrified, in an opaque regime, which is the strategy to develop the infrastructures of this autonomous community. Why are you still stuck? For such a simple reason as not to give information gives enough room to maneuver the rotating government to share the gifts, as if it were a sort of grace, by building a circle or some infrastructure, whether or not structurally, that the Government of Greece can do. That's why this motion presented today by our parliamentary group simply raises two things. First of all, which is approved before July 2019 — and we are not talking about before the end of this year, we are talking about eight months practically — the Roads Director Plan, following the parliamentary processing coming from, as is established in this Galician Road Law that I have just commented on. And, on the other hand, which refers to the Galician Parliament the planning of actions which are under development of the Plan Move, if they still consider it to be in force, has planned to carry out the German Government during this legislation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u49	Good morning. At the BNG we have a question, which might be an existential question about the Move Plan, which is whether this plan has ever really existed. Because it doesn't appear on the board's website, it's half hidden there, you have to locate it on the Crown Deputy's website. And he was also presented on his day, in a board of directors, as a report. Because this is really little more than a powert point. There is no economic memory or strict planning document, objectives, priorities. And they said at that time it wasn't an infrastructure plan, it was a mobility plan. If it has been reformed after a year, reducing its scope. At that time, the reasons that were given — and I remember that she was the Director General of Infrastructure to Mrs Ethel Vázquez — were that her objectives should be reduced by the collapse of income from the autonomous farm, in less than 900 million, and by the obligation to return to the state 2,500 million between 2011 and 2016 because of miscalculated advances. I mean, for these reasons, not because of what the president of the board said here, lying and missing the truth again. Actually, from BNG we think we're facing a science fiction work. Plan Move is a work of science fiction, a sort of dystopia, a negative utopia, a work of a very prolific author who was in a time in the Government of the Union, Mr. Agustín Hernández, who, with Mr. Núñez Fexóo's patronage, wrote some works of fiction, such as the Coastal Management Plan — since it was never seen after any kind of continuity — the Alternative Mobility Plan — which was kept in a coffin despite the cost of thousands of euros — the Plan Movega, to promote the use of the electric vehicle — with 2.4 million investments left there — or also the force of the Galician railway, which resulted in a contract that later became nothing. And the truth is that we could say, exaggerating a bit, that fortunately the plans of Plan Move were not fulfilled, because it was absolutely unreal, it posed absolutely fantastic actions and it wasn't a plan neither planned nor prioritized nor with a memory of truly rigorous investments. We were told wonderful things, like that, thanks to this plan, 80% of the population would be less than ten minutes from a high-capacity track. Of which, which high-capacity watch, we ask ourselves. Most of the population in Galicia would be less than 10 kilometres from a true sablazo, the AP-9 sablazo, the AP-53 sablazo, the AG-55 sablazo, which communicates The Coruña and Carballo, or the AG-57 sablazo, which communicates Vigo with the Val Minor. Because these are the high-capacity routes of those who are less than ten minutes away from the population of Ferrol, The Coruña, Carballo, Santiago, Vilagarcia, Pontevedra or Vigo, or Lalin, or Silleda, who have to pay those fares. And those are the promises you made to them. They were left out of priority actions on urban crossings and variants. Most of them didn't do it, most of the dissuasive parking lots weren't done and something that should be absolutely priority, as were the targets for reducing fatal victims on the roads. And I remind you that this year's figures are really worrisome and harsh: we're in 92 fatalities at this time of year, with a very significant increase. And also the figures on the autonomic roads are not to boast over the last five years. And we could say here that it's less bad that Pérez Navarro returned to General Traffic Directorate. It must be acknowledged that it was really the only general director who took this question seriously. Welcome back to your presence, because if we wait for the actions of the Galician Union, we won't be able to do anything in this respect. At this point, we think that the failure, the fiasco of this unreal promise, this fiction of the Move Plan, which you have responsible, that I am Mr. Fexóo and Mrs. Ethel Vázquez, which has been over this time nothing more and nothing less than the Director General of Infrastructure, Director of the AGI and then Director of Infrastructure. Since 2009 he has been in charge of these issues. Having said that, the BNG will support, support, this proposal from the Socialist Party. With some shade, perhaps, we will support it, although we also add — as amendments we believe to complement and enrich the text — a proposal to draw up and approve a sectoral road map which is precisely focused on a question that is absolutely central and vital, which is the fight against road violence and the fight against humanety on roads of self- and local competition; secondly, we propose that some of the goals of the Move be met, for example, by reducing the fees on highways dependent on the Galician Union, we propose that that this decrease reach up to 50%, and that there be progressive bonuses for frequent use. And it's also that studies are being done for the abolition of the fees in those motorways that communicate Vigo with Val Minor and La Coruña with Carballo, because it is absolutely unfair and discriminatory that the population of these territories has to pay fees when on the other highways that there is autonomous ownership there is no directly paid toll, there is another kind of toll. And finally, we think it's essential to overcome that narrow framework of debate around the road and infrastructure plan, and to once and for all face a strategy for sustainable, healthy and secure mobility, which is also aligned with the objectives of combating climate change and sustainable mobility. We think this is the big challenge we have. We must overcome this debate of asphalt, of infrastructure, of roads, and go much further, think of Galicia in the next decade, addressing all these issues that we propose in these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u50	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u51	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. It is truly embarrassing and shows very much the very low level of this government of the Council of Galicia the contempt with which they refer to the second most voted group of this House, which represents thousands of Greeks and Greeks. And to do so is truly embarrassing for a government in Galicia. But that's you, that's your style. [[Applause]] We are going to support this initiative, but the truth is we do not have much hope that it will be carried out. It may be approved, possibly, it may be executed, but of course we do not have a lot of hope in it to be executed, because it speaks of the Government of the People's Party complying with legislation, compliance with laws and compliance with regulations, which is something that is not usually done, from which it often escapes quite often. We've already checked it out on numerous occasions. To develop plans that go beyond the political and entrepreneurship framework to disintegrate the country does not have much attention on the part of this government. We have already commented on the Commission last week with regard to Plan Move what was done with this plan, which is what you do with most of the plans. You have a very common modus operandi, which during this legislation is fulfilled over and over again. You announce that they will present a plan, fireworks, headlines, and it seems they're doing something. They come here presenting the plan, putting again fireworks, refilling the media with headlines, and it looks like they're doing something. Then the deputy advisor will do interviews, talk about the wonders of the plan, Feijóo comments on the plan, the spokesperson of the People's Group too, it seems you're doing a lot of things. But then, in the end, what they do is they keep those plans in the drawer. Every time they announce plans that are beneficial for Galician development, they're only headlines and fireworks, but then they put them in a drawer. We saw it during this legislation with the Road Safety Plan, the circular economy, the landscape guidelines. In this case they've only stayed on the ad, they've only been advertising for nine years, and they haven't taken the following steps yet. But, however, when you present laws or plans that go against the interests of citizenship, you use another strategy, which is to put it through the back door, as they did with the "Depredation Law," and you approve it very quickly in three months. This is what we've come to see for all these years with its practice. The reality that lives the network of Galician roads is of total abandonment, of absolute abandonment. It's really worrying and it has to do with the fall of the budget and disarming of the Galician Union and also of Development. Mr. Fernández Prado, in his previous budget appearance, was recriminal to me, who didn't want to talk about Development now that he had changed the Government. And I told you in my reply I did. I actually talked about Development and he didn't like anything I said, and you didn't talk about it. So today, we decided to bring an initiative to talk about Development and so let you see that we too, when there is a change of government, if we speak and if we defend Galicia's interests. Not like you, who are now making the ridiculous attempt to lead the transfer of AP-9 after you've vetoed it when you were in the State Government. We also saw how you, depending on who you are in government, change your attitude. We saw his shameful attitudes saying that Fomento was very good with Galicia when we saw how the investment of Fomento was falling into Galicia; and above all the execution, which even in 2016 only 40 percent was executed and we lowered the 2002 figures. While this was happening, while the abandonment of infrastructure in Galicia by Fomento was running, you went out to the public saying that Fomento was doing very well. The maintenance of state roads in Galicia dropped to a third during the seven years of government of the People's Party on Development. That is why we put this amendment, in addition to the proposals made by the Socialist Party, so that a study may be made, so that a report may be made, on this discrimination suffered by Galicia during the seven years of the Government of the People's Party in the State — especially on the execution — so that, on the basis of these data, we can ask for compensation to pay attention to the emergencies and needs of the Greek State's competitive infrastructures. But this is also very important not only for Galicia's economic development — that of course — but also for the question of sinlessness and death on the road. In Galicia we have some very worrying figures. In 2018, in the first three quarters, 77 people died; more than in the whole year before, when we came from a negative trend. Therefore, road conservation is essential. In the budgets for the year coming from Galicia's Junta we see how the budget falls for road conservation. I don't know how they plan to deal with it this way. Execution is never done properly, it's done at very low levels. He said — already finished — the Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor at the budget meeting that they would like to do more. We would also like them to do more, and to the Greeks and to the Greeks as well. But the problem is that you don't do it anymore because you work for the elites, and that's why newspaper headlines appear now that they say that the Greek fortunes will save 12 million with the downsizing of the estate tax. In this way, of course, there will be a budget failure and therefore there will not be enough money to meet the needs of the Greek roads. As long as you're still ruling for the elites, we'll have trouble investing in the maintenance of the Greek roads. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u52	Thank you, Mr. Cal. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u53	Thank you, President. Good morning. Mr. Cal, I despise what the Tide Group does to this House and our group with constant insults. We're still waiting for people to apologize for calling ourselves murderers and other immodests that we have to listen to, and on top of that they say the unconsidered are the others. The unconsidered are those who insult each full, each full, because they have no other argument. [[Applause]] Mr. Álvarez, the full past I believe that both the advisor and the president have taken good account of the actions planned to carry out. Do it on time in this House, not just the other day. He compared on two occasions the advisor, on his own request; one to talk exactly about roads and another to all the lines of his department. But above all, I think we have had occasion the other day, in the budget debate for this year, to know the main actions that the Council is going to take in the coming months. So we can say that this House believes it has completed and detailed information on these investments, both in writing and in appearance. As for the specific themes of his motion, at the first point it seems that he intends to link in writing the need to make the Roads Director Plan with the date of August 2019, when the law does not establish it that way. But it's nice that those who ask for these planning compliance issues are those of the PSOE, that when they rule they have a pretty big laziness to do these things. We can have hundreds of examples. Vigo's PXOM can be one of them. Of course, Mr. Bará, Jose Lois Bará, said a few documents approved by this Government. Unfortunately, we can't say any of the Bipartite. I mean, planning is also doing it. They could do some. And, of course, the previous road law also required that this road plan be made. The Bipartite didn't move a paper either. As far as the second point is concerned, it's done. It was already said: the instrument that best collects those investments has already been submitted, these are the budgets. And there we wait for them for any contribution. We'll be willing to work on those contributions that they can make during their processing. But what we don't see and expect is the state's general budgets. It's a lot of talk, but little is known. By the way, we know they're going to be negotiated with the alleged jail strikers. But, Mr Cal, since he talks so much about budgets and growth, what he could do is explain to us what the support of the Group of En Marea is worth, or what it is called, to state budgets. I could explain, I could explain what that support is for the Greeks and Galicia. I'll tell him: nothing, nothing! But it's good that they become concerned about those infrastructures. I hope, Mr. Álvarez, that this is because we are now approaching municipal elections and not because they are now ruling in Madrid. I hope that's not the reason why they've now forgotten about Development and come back to the Greek infrastructure. He said "a serial response." Home!, serial answer I believe it reflects a reality, which they left to the Greeks, a rather crune reality. That's a series. This series of debts is indeed a reality. That's a series of: 1 billion concessions, all the infrastructure they've made has left them to pay in concessions -- they're paid 400 million -- 900 million in gestures, 900 debt; 2,175 million negative liquidations -- that's a series, that's a series, if it's a series, of what you were talking about. It's a number of debts to pay for what they arrive for. Because, of course, it's easy to say that works are done, but all, all, to pay for whatever comes. And I also think they explained to you — that it's nothing like what you've reported — that yes, that 83% of society is already 15 minutes away from a high-capacity highway, with 208 new kilometres of passenger cars, all free of fees at the worst of the crisis. That's the balance that the Government of Feijóo can say, because he hasn't left, like others, paying for what they're coming for, in concessions. I celebrate, as you said the other day, that Plan Move is quite acceptable as an element of infrastructure planning. I'm glad you like it. But they also help themselves a little where they rule, because some of the works needs socialist governments. In the Coruña you would like the board to do it, and you need that authorization from the Ministry of Development, now socialist. And what's going to happen in Viveiro? A bridge of 100 million euros. What does the socialist council say? He's got to put a stop to it again, as he's done for the last ten years, you're stuck and you're stuck to all the options they're proposing. But, of course, they come to talk about peas just the week we started paying for what the socialist government agreed in 2011... To approve the rise of the fees we started paying this week. And what was the first thing the other socialist government did, the one in Sánchez, on roads in Galicia? Make it effective and start paying. In the seven years of Rajoy's government, say what they say, we didn't pay them. We started paying for the 2011 White Agreement this week. That's the deal! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u54	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u55	I'm done, Mr. President. Look, Junta doesn't like those fees. He didn't actually implement none. This government of Feijóo was the only government that implemented subsidies to reduce the costs of the tolls in Carballo and also in the south. By the way, when you ruled in the Bipartite -- PSOE and BNG -- neither a help nor a subsidy to those sins, which also existed. This government had to arrive to take them down. So, more than 200 kilometers free of fees, I think they justify those subsidies. And we'll fight and we'll keep fighting for more accessible infrastructures. We expect them in budgets for any contribution they can make. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u56	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. We greet the students of the Higher Cycle of Administration and Finance of the Roman Wall Institute of Lugo. Welcome to Parliament, and your teachers and escorts as well. Thank you for being here. Now if Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u57	Thank you, President. I also greet, as not!, the students, students and teachers of the IES Roman Wall, which, by the way, I know for reasons of profession. An incisus, Mr. Fernández Prado. I don't know why they're waiting for us, either for the Bloc or for the Marea, in the budget debate, because they never approve of anything. Then they may be waiting there sitting comfortably, because the result will be exactly the same. [[Applause]] For going by order of intervention, Mr Bará, indeed, the Plan Move was a propaganda instrument. You referred to him as an instrument of science fiction. I'm talking about programmed obsolescence; that is, they knew they wouldn't go anywhere and yet published it, because it was an instrument of mere propaganda. Yes, it is a shame that there is no right to forget, because you can still find, not without some difficulty, Plan Move on some website of some other administration. Obviously not from the Galician Union, which was its author, and therefore whoever had to put it there to facilitate the consultation of any of the people. With regard to your proposals for addition, we will accept them all in full in your writing. Because, in addition, in particular in point 5 — which Mr Fernández Prado so much hurts — this parliamentary group has tabled a motion for a resolution in the debate on the state of Autonomy — recently celebrated — in order to eliminate these charges. Although, of course, I know that the People's Party was waiting for us with open arms and that's why he voted against it, just not to disappoint us, because that's what they always do with any proposal we have. What is true is that the failure to comply with the Move Plan and the drafting of the Move Plan has political leaders, who are obviously the members of the Government of the People's Party systematically year after year, non-compliance after non-compliance. With regard to the Amendment of En Marea, we will not accept it, and not because it refers to the Central Government. Because we agree with the demand. I mean, Galicia demands positive discrimination, and it demands that Mr. Mariano Rajoy's governments have left out of running 1,500 million euros in infrastructures in this autonomous community in just three years, 1,500 million euros! And that, Mr. Fernández Prado, I believe that in any accounting regime, as elementary as it is — until there are administrative and finance students in the guest gallery — becomes part of the debt. [[Applause]] I mean, you have a historic debt to this autonomous community. And, by the way, Mr. Fernández Prado, yours is a serial answer. You said that at the meeting of the Infrastructure Council in the 3rd Commission, everything had been clarified. Frankly — I don't know my opposition colleagues — we must be in different appearances, because there was absolutely nothing clear about what was going to happen to the Plan Move on the budgetary issue. You'll always shoot in the same direction. Now it's no longer an automatic response, it's an automatic shot, and it's also a repeat. Frankly, I believe that the neighbours of Sarria, Burela, Noia, etc., care little about what happens to the general plan of the city of Vigo, but Vigo must be mentioned in all debates. It's his permanent mantra. And you say "all paying for what's coming." Would you like us to speak calmly one day about the payment arrangements currently in the autonomous Community budgets until 2040, of these 1,721 million euros from the Feijóo government committed until 2039?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u59	Is that what it is? For those who come or for those who have passed? Until 2039 it must be for those who will come from now on. That's the reality of the People's Party. But of course, as it was predictable, we count on your "no", because we count on you to the Greek citizenship at no time want to tell you what the government line is going to be on such a strategic issue for territorial cohesion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u61	...as are the infrastructures. Nothing else, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u62	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Thank you. Motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the execution of works of rural infrastructure
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u63	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, dear students, students and teachers, at Lugo School, at Lugo Institute. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we socialists bring a motion that derives — as you well know — from the interpellation made in the previous plenary on the 2018-2019 Rural Infrastructure Plan. Well, in this case we bring a hand-held motion, a motion we hope — and with which we certainly count — to be approved by the unanimity of this House; a motion that transforms the "ti will bring you that I will already fix you" into "all the councils are equal for the Unity of Galicia." Politics, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is not a story. The Galician Union must adapt to the reality of the 21st century, the laws are not novels of fiction. Politics and laws are to improve the lives of people, of all people, regardless of where they live and who governs their county. That's why I ask you among all of us to approve this motion so that these practices of "you will bring" disappear once and for all. [[Applause]] For it to be ruled with transparency, for it to be ruled with justice, and for it to be ruled with equal opportunity. I suppose we'll all agree on this, won't we? I suppose so, that'll be the case. This plan, according to the Galician Union itself, is a plan to improve the living conditions of the population of rural nuclei, a plan to fix population in rural areas, a plan to facilitate population settlement and a plan to dynamize the rural world. But we will agree that we want a plan for all the Greeks and for all the Greeks who want to live or who already live in our country, in the rural of Galicia. So, with the assurance that this is the most important goal, we have to approve among all this motion so that the policy of the People's Party in Galicia ceases to be an electoral machinery in the service of its own party, so that the Galician Union will change certain ways of ruling. [[Applause]] By approving this motion it is how you, Members of the People's Party, can show that you have a commitment to transparency, good governance and equal opportunities. See, the Socialist Parliamentary Group calls for a change and, in view of a plan that the Government of Galicia of the People's Party does not publish anywhere, which we know by the note published in the media that hangs on the website on the agreements of the Council of Galicia, which says that "the Board allocates 2.7 million euros to improve rural infrastructure in 65 municipalities", in view of that, the Socialists propose on this motion to develop a rural infrastructure plan for a five-year period in which the objectives pursued and the typology of the councils in which they intend to act, indicating the order of priorities for each of the exercises, and to meet all the municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants. And I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that we have 258 municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants, that is, 8 out of every 10 Greek municipalities have less than 10,000 inhabitants. And of these 258, 201 are fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. Therefore, you tell me. I suppose you'll know perfectly well that all these 258 municipalities, at least, have various needs and emergencies to be included in a rural infrastructure plan by the German Government, which is supposed to be all of them. We also ask it to be posted on the website of the Rural Media Council. Faces a plan in which the same day the plan is published the municipalities are activated and the amounts are activated, a plan in which the submission of applications is present, in which the mayors or mayors of Greece have to go to order, ask! —as the Director General of Rural Development told us—to the adviser—in this case the advisor, but I'm going to talk about the past, in which he was the Rural Middle Councillor—the project he considers, in view of a plan where the evaluation commission was his own advisor or the trusted person in whom he had delegated, a plan in which the criteria for assessing subsidies were "you are bringing us to work on urgency and necessity," and in which the subjective criterion was to have a Government of the People's Party, except for some small, very small exception—and this last criterion was the biggest weight, the higher weighting, and I remind you that of 65 councils, 56 were of the People's Party, that is, 9 out of 10 councils benefited from this plan were of the People's Party; they were not, they are the People's Party!; and, by the way, there are 22 municipalities (all of the People's Party) that have already benefited in 2017 with this same plan, with this same plan!, including a single city, the city of Ourense, in 2017 and 2018 (I would also like to be explained why), and they are again grateful for this plan 2018-2019—, in view of this, the Socialists propose to approve a basis for convening, each of the years of plan's vigilance, competitive grants according to the established priorities, and to establish on the basis of the public call for budget subsidies for each exercise, the requirements and objective criteria for distribution. [[Applause]] Faced with transparency, in view of the way I understand the transparency and good governance of the Galician Union, in which the Director General of Rural Development himself tells us that they obviously comply with transparency because, if not, I would not know about this plan, this "it will bring you that I will already fix you," the Socialists propose that they publish already this month on the website of the Rural Council, the list and the counties awarded to each of the municipalities benefited from the 2018-2019 Rural Infrastructure Plan; and that, once we grant what we contemplate on that real plan, they publish within one month the list with the municipalities benefited, as well as the accounts granted to each of the municipalities. By the way, we haven't received that listing that the Director General of Rural Development told us that he was going to approach us. He hasn't come near us yet. And today morning -- at least the first hour -- we still don't find that listing on the Council's website. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, together with Galician Government, stop making plans that are not plans! They work hard because our country's rural is not a story. The Rural Middle Council is a fundamental councillor for our country. Galicia rubs off on the order of 10,000 people a year, we bleed out demographically. And in the meantime, you're looking forward to helping government friends. We must end this clientelism in which public resources, resources that are all and everyone's, are used as electoral machinery. I remind you: in Plan Urbe, 13 million, 9.4 out of every 10 municipalities are from the People's Party; in the grant for investments to improve infrastructure and equipment in the municipalities of Galicia, 2.5 million euros, 8 out of every 10 are from the People's Party; in the grants for the creation or improvement of infrastructure and equipment in the municipalities of Galicia, 4.4 million, 8 out of every 10 of the municipalities are from the People's Party; in the Rural Infrastructure Plan 2017, 3.3 million euros, 9 out of every 10 municipalities are from the People's Party; in the Rural Infrastructure Plan 20182019, 2.7 million euros, 9 out of every 10 municipalities are from the People's Party. Four programmes — five including the 2017 annuality — we are talking about 26 million euros in two years of legislation, that the PP government in the Galician Union distributes according to the convention, with the subjective criteria they consider and supporting the local governments that are of their own color. Indeed, by contradicting an agreement approved by unanimity of all political groups in the executive commission of the Fegamp developed on February 14, 2017, with which you say again and again that they have a magnificent relationship — I don't know what the Fegamp will say about this — with a document with demands on local finance called "Executive summary of the commission of analysis for the study and proposals for measures to reform the regulations governing local farms", in which, among other things, it is established...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u66	...—I have already concluded, Mr President—to reach an agreement with the Fegamp on the allocation of subsidies from the Autonomous Community of Galicia for local authorities by ensuring equal access and the application of objective criteria. Nothing else in this first part and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Last week we had the appearance of the presidents of the deputies — not all of them — to explain the master lines of their budgets and, in passing, renew political positions on these institutions by seeing us decrepit and lapses. With regard to the Coruña Deputies, since the BNG, we have made it clear that one of our conditions in the government agreement was to reduce scandalous nominations by 24% to 5% that allowed an arbitrary and caciquil public fund allocation. The RIP, a rural infrastructure plan, has been that, a plan of nominations at the disposal of the deputy councillor that allows him to go and show the population to whom he ought to vote. Caciquism in pure definition. The same councillor was engrossing his shoulders the other day by circumventing responsibilities in the interpellation, with a decree dating back to the year 1992 of the last century. And so it justified their existence: it belonged to the past, to the most dark tradition. It happened, yes, by the Bipartite, that we already know it's the reference to PP, because that's where the world began. It used to be nothing; that is, the right of the caves. The Framework Plan takes 16 million euros of budget and meets the pre-established criteria we all know, and welcomes due transparency, within an order. The RIP is the complement needed to see who has the key to money and who are the thanks with the favors of the friends of the Government, who will have to vote for. This in rural areas works and cannot be denied, because the RIP has been the nominee of the Framework Plan — Plan milestone, 16 million; additional name for friends, PIR, 2.7 million —. To say that in rural areas we are used to these maneuvers, being true, does not give you a letter of legitimacy. First of all, it affirms to us the urgent need to turn the story around. That's why we're going to support the motion presented by the Socialist Group, by faking that we're in doubt: not knowing who was first, whether the egg or the chicken, about the rural environment, nor do we know whether we need to improve our infrastructure and services in the belief that we won't be without people for lack of them, or whether, on the contrary, we should seriously bet on rural economic development so that people had to demand more and better infrastructure growing. We're certainly at the BNG in this last one, a bet on rural development, one to return to life, a repair of injustice and abandonment that is incomprehensible to the people that we resist there. That's why it's time to delete the names by name of PIR, Hurbe and a significant listing. And there's no need to apologize. Urgency is valued in free competition and with objective criteria, not with caicadas dressed in decrees and with obsolete and disgusting legislation. What we should debate and discuss here is whether or not it is the relevance of the political lines, and we should be aware of the lesson that they are not being massed and that transparency must preside over all public management. Of course, this is not easy for a party that uses corruption as a political voting system and that focuses its majority on practices and grant plans such as those we are debating on this motion today. One, who is an old dog in this of the subsidies, recalls the use that was given to the countless amounts of money that came from Europe and that went through the cloacas of the Popular Party's clienteleism, which before the beginning of the times had already ruled. At that time we walked out of the night of fascism and delay, and we had no government that looked at the country together and with a vision of the future. But it's gone, and, you cheat, Marica don't cry! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u69	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u70	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, guests from the gallery, on 28 March last year the Director General for Rural Development met with the spokespersons of the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, of the Fegamp, in order to try to move forward in the design and implementation of the Municipal Road Improvement Framework Plan for 2017 and 2018, a plan with nearly 16 million euros. The working group sought the possible consensus in setting the criteria to be followed for the allocation of funds corresponding to each municipality, such as population, surface, degree of depopulation, degree of aging, weight of agriculture in each municipality, etc. It was intended to set a distribution barrier for these 16 million euros of budget own funds from the Galician Union for this purpose for the years 2017 and 2018. Thus, there would be a fixed approach per municipality of EUR 15,000, to which other funds would be added according to its inhabitants and population entities. The area of each municipal term, the importance of the agricultural and forestry activities that exist in each municipality, the demographic evolution or the degree of aging would correct the total allocation that will correspond to each municipality. He announced Agader's CEO that the execution of the plan last year would allow the arrangement of some 810 kilometres of public roads in 293 Greek municipalities. The paradox of this program emerges when, in last year's resolution, a fixed amount of 19 million euros, almost 20, provided by AXE, EADER and Junta, estimated a total of 713 fixed roads that would reach more than 1,300 kilometers. This is to say that many less miles of planned roads have been executed, 38% less than projected. We don't know if this reduction has also been transferred to the investment executed. On Friday, June 2, last year's commission, Agader's CEO boasted of the role developed in the previous framework and announced the 2017-2018 Road Improvement Framework. He told us he was going to count on an amount of almost 8 million euros for each year. This is less than half what they came to perceive the municipalities. You've seen the magnitude of the cut that even Mr. Dubois has left the former Director General, Mr. Crespo, which was no longer easy! He got rid of this role developed by lying, just as the president of the Galician Union lied in the middle of last year's autonomy state and in the middle of this year's autonomy state. Why? Because they've made fewer roads, less miles, and there's a lot less funds. Your rural bet is a joke, of course, and it's reduced to four propaganda measures that solve zero problems for those we live there. I think, Mrs. Rumbo, that this motion today is going to go ahead, because I think that asking to be posted on the Council's website is the listing and the accounts awarded to each beneficiary council is transparency. I don't think the People's Party opposes transparency or other things that it asks for, how to establish on the basis of the public call for grants budgeting for each exercise, or the requirements and objective criteria for distribution. That's a fair deal, and I don't think the People's Party is opposed to a fair deal. That is why we have already defended here in this Parliament for a year now that a new call has been made to give the municipalities of the country a plan as they really deserve and not an alms. And that's why we're going to support this motion. For our part, nothing else. I'm just gonna leave it here... this is almost a guess. Don't I know if you know what this year was the only city in Galicia that was left without this framework plan for not justifying it? It was the city of Ourense. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u71	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. White Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr. Rodríguez Estévez, you didn't speak for anything about the Rural Infrastructure Plan, you spoke about the Framework Plan. I don't know if you were confused because that same intervention we had, as you say, a year ago in the commission. As you said, the General Directorate for Rural Development, in the wake of Decree 246/1992 and Article 19 of Law 9/2007, of 13 June, of subsidies from Galicia, has been approving the Rural Infrastructure Plan, known as the RIP, on an annual basis for execution with own funds of urgent actions requested by the municipalities with deficiencies or with rural infrastructures in poor condition. Thus, the 2018 RIP envisages performances in 65 municipalities, with a total amount of 2.7 million euros. The protagonists of this plan are the Town Councils, they ask for the works, they write the projects, they approve them at local government meetings, they motivate their urgency and need, and they are also the ones that account for the full size of municipal corporations. The municipalities send all the documentation, which has to go through the Project Supervision Service, led by officials, not politicians, and they're the ones who support them. And the agreement, then, goes to the Legal Counsel and, with this favorable report, ultimately passes to the Intervention. These actions are complementary to the plan of what has also been discussed here, the Road Improvement Plan, the Framework Plan, which has EUR 16 million to promote the expansion, improvement or maintenance of the municipal roads throughout Galicia, with a minimum contribution of EUR 15,000 per municipality and with the criteria it is increasing, according to the Fegamp. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, you ask for a new plan for five years, but you forget we already have other programs. And he also knows that this plan is going to have a more agile way so the municipalities can solve those urgent problems. So you'll understand that you can't plan for five years the urgency of the problems that a municipality has. I can't understand why Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo is so concerned. Perhaps, perhaps, by listening to you today and the other day, the goal seems clear: that of the usual, to make the People's Party and the Government pass over as the evil ones who do not comply with the law, who use administrative criteria and procedures in their void or convenience; ultimately, some cacicus. And you know what I'm telling you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo? Maybe you're right. But I also ask him, "Wicked with respect to whom, do you think with respect to whom?" You reminded me of that phenomenon called "projection or reflection" psychology, which is to see the other faults of our own, that when we criticize others we're talking about ourselves. So when one political party gives other lessons as to how things have to be done, in honor of honesty and coherence, it would do well to use the example. That's why you could say: You do everything very bad and we do it the following way. That's why I'm telling you: you criticize the process of this infrastructure plan, just like you did in 2007 and 2008, in the Bipartite Government; but, yes, using twice as much money, five million euros. So if we are bad, you will be twice as bad; if we are good, you will be twice as bad as we are. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You used to say, change the laws. Why didn't you change them? Why do they manifest this political hypocrisy? You criticized grants in non-competitive competition. And Mr Rivas, who is from the Galego Nationalist Block, and you forget the order of May 16, 2006, where are the aid for municipalities of less than 6,000 inhabitants—in non-competitive competition, Mr Rivas, what cacique is you, uh!—in non-competitive competition, respecting the order of presentation until you exhaust the available credit. This is the example of what they did when they ruled. Look, that of the works that benefit the municipalities of the PP is another mantra. See, in the province of Coruña, 26 percent are when the People's Party governs more than 46% of the municipalities. In Lugo it is 26.9 percent when the People's Party governs almost 50 percent of the municipalities. In Ourense they account for 22.6% when the People's Party rules in 75% of the municipalities. And in Pontevedra, 24.2% when the People's Party rules 50 percent of the municipalities. If we were like you, you know what would happen? Well, look, what happens in the Pontevedra Deputy. You didn't speak, because you said that administrations have an obligation to be transparent and to be able to offer equal opportunities. [[Strong murmurers.]] Look, in the Pontevedra MP, 15 million for PSOE and BNG; and for the People's Party, which governs 50% of the municipalities, 400,000 euros. [[Murmurs.]] Hey! [[Murmurs.]] What equity! What equity! So I say, what is the model that we have to imitate? When you talk about signing conventions, do we imitate the model, for example, the Deputy of Lugo? Look, I'm going to tell you: 33 municipalities that govern the People's Party, and the Town Councils of the People's Party receive 14%; the PSOE municipalities rule 28% and receive 70%; and the BNG, which governs 3 municipalities, receives 14%, that is, the party that governs in 3 municipalities receives the same as the one that governs in 33. And they come here to teach us lessons about what, do you choose from what? [[Applause]] You're saying that administrations have to be transparent, that mayors have to have equal treatment. Oian!, Madam President of the Parliament of Pontevedra, who hid for the second time and didn't want to come face to the Parliament of Galicia and that you have today been criticizing your intervention because I put it in evidence, Carmela Silva, says, "I'm not going to receive the mayor's product from a motion of censure." Hey, but this... she adds: "Because it would be legitimized." But where did Mr. Sánchez's government come from? Didn't you say here in parliamentary headquarters that motions of censure are legitimate?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u74	Look, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I now, after listening to you in your intervention, don't know what you want us to imitate. But what I can tell you is that maybe we understand why you didn't want Mrs. Carmela Silva to come to Parliament. Just like when he heard all the criticisms from you, he got scared and said, "If my companion said all this, if she thinks all this about me, they'll say the other parties! So lessons, none. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u75	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello. For the motion's own group, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Leave the thing alone today. [[Strong murmurers.]] Leave the thing alone and don't let yourself be flattered, in addition. Please, Mr. Losada, don't let yourself be flattered! [[Murmurs.]] Don't be flattered because it's worse for you in this case. [[Laughter]] Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, anytime. He's got three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. The spokesperson for the People's Party seems to have been mistaken, however, of debate. We're talking about something different today. [[Murmurs.]] First of all, Mr. Spokesman of the BNG, I thank you for your support, and I remember, as you did, that the Deputy of the Crown, who has just appeared on these committees, spoke to us of a single plan for 2019 with 61.5 million euros for all! the Greek municipalities, which are bringing together a number of grants that have been made in competitive competition and which in 2018 reached 84 million euros. In addition, an employment plan of EUR 10 million for all municipalities. In view of this, we have a Galician board that has 313 municipalities with 112 million euros in the Local Cooperation Fund. And, with regard to the spokesman of En Marea, we fully agree, we fully agree. Although the President of the Galician Union and some advisers who leave here say that this is the legislate of rural life, we are living the legislating of the softness of rural areas, of the softness of rural areas! And I also agree with the spokesman that this motion should be approved. [[Applause]] It's a hand-held motion, it doesn't bring any tricks, absolutely no tricks. Mr. Voicer of the People's Party, you're talking about your own funds. That's why, by being own funds, there's no problem for them to aim at making a public call for grants so that all municipalities can opt for it on equal terms. You're telling me it's something they have there, like a tailor's drawer, for the urgent deficiencies. I just don't know if to laugh or cry! All Galician municipalities have urgent deficiencies, absolutely all, absolutely all of them! [[Applause]] Besides, you tell me the protagonists are the Town Councils. What councils, the People's Party? Because, look, these have the dots in red, these are the 2017 Rural Infrastructure Plan, you know? [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows a document.]] And you've ruled ten years, nine years, uninterruptedly. This is 2017. And these I have here too, with a red stick -- I don't know if you see it well, but if you don't, then I'll make it easy for the president to see it later -- these are the Town Councils of the People's Party, 22, which were here and are also here ( ; again of the People's Party. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo next shows two documents.]] You say these projects ask the mayors and mayors, that they will ask there, ask! —it is that you have already said so — they are being evaluated by technicians, who make technical reports. Man, I'd just miss it! It would only be missing, Mr. Paradelo, that they still didn't have to pass by the technicians of the Council itself to give them permission, to swallow these kind of subsidies! I'd just miss it! It seems to me that it is inconceivable that this is the defense of this plan! Of course, we're asking for a new plan, a new plan that undermines this way of acting. You may have a part that's more agile, but not 2.2...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u77	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u78	...more than 3.3; i.e., 5.5 million euros for the municipalities to which you decide to give them money to do the works that you consider urgent. And I would also like to remind you: in the House of Ourense, which is governed by the People's Party, because 23.4% of investments are for those who are not of the same political colour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u80	You benefit again and again those who have the same government as that of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u82	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u83	Thank you. Motion by G. P. de En Marea, on the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to Sergas's staff recruitment policy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u84	There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u85	To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u86	Thank you, President. Well, two more weeks, gentlemen, two more weeks without solving the situation of the continuing attention points. Two more weeks since the last plenary session in which there was practically no occasion — because the Board did not want it — to sit down and negotiate. Today there was a meeting where virtually no solution was proposed by the Council. At this point, some of the workers and workers were still sitting. Two more weeks in which, far from that, what they applied was the most absolute disregard for the rights of professionals and professionals. We've seen him all these days. I already reminded them in the past, in the intervention of that plea, that sentence or that intervention by the spokesperson of the People's Party who in the Health Committee said that "to see if the strike would not cause any assistance problems." And who produces assistance problems is precisely the Galician Union with its cuts and staff shortages, which, in an entrepreneurial way, keeps the points of continued attention undiscovered. I mean, less personal than there should be to meet the basic needs, just like when José Manuel Brey died at the Road CAP, exactly the same, absolutely the same! Which country can afford the risk that more people die or that there are people who do not care at a health center, at an ongoing point of attention? What government can make clear this situation and not even sit down to negotiate what are the measures that will increase professionals or, at least, loyal those who make their formation so that they stay and do not leave because of precariousness? How much is the life of a Welshman and a Welshman so that this situation can be seen and that they spend months without taking any measure? On the day we discussed En Marea's questioning, I transferred what the professionals or professionals had transferred to us, what was public, the multiple discoveries, the multiple points where, despite the existence of strike and minimum services, there were not enough staff. The Board is not even available to staff to cover the minimum services of a hundred percent, and there are no professionals to cover them or plan, of course, to be available to professionals, just as it is necessary for the rest of the year. And that's because throughout the year the staff is under minimum, and because the Galician Union lacks a contingency plan and planning for the need for professionals available for continuing attention points. And those examples that existed in those days, two weeks ago, were related to the CAP of the Guard, the CAP of Moaña, the CAP of the Parda, the Casa do Mar da Coruña, the Cambados... all these centers stayed, just like that fateful day on the Road, without the necessary professionals on a day off, on a day off! It's been two weeks and we're still in the same situation. It's a pity the health adviser isn't here, because we understand that he's not dealing with the necessary measures to try to cover this serious problem that has our public health. And I wonder, are they stupid or are they reckless? Because in minimal services, we're not able to meet our needs. And on Sunday itself, last Sunday -- let's put more concrete examples -- in the Coruña, in Moaña, they were without minimum services. It's the usual, and here nothing happens at all until a misfortune happens again. Instead of assuming the need to sit down and negotiate with a real proposal and not sit down to negotiate to deal with the situation and not come to any proposal agreement, instead of talking to staff, to take into account the proposals — they presented them with a possible more adapted timetable, they presented them with the possibility of a contingency plan — the Board absolutely does not want to know anything. Instead, what are they doing? Since they were not able to comply with the law on rest, they also violate the law on right to strike, as we have seen all these days at Vigo's continuing point of attention. No staff to cover the guards? They don't worry about looking for it, what they do is they double their days for professionals who are at the points of continuous attention. It's not normal what happened in Vigo: the board, the health council, acting as slaves. What health care can be offered by working five days with 65 hours of work, 65 hours!, subjecting professionals to physical exhaustion and mental tiredness of responsibility and work to be all these hours caring for health emergencies? There is no right for professionals or, of course, for users. We wonder if we are in the 19th century and slavery is possible within the public health system. That happened at the Vigo CAP, and it's absolutely intolerable. And no right to reconcile. The other day we had the health adviser's presence in the Committee on Economics to talk about budgets, and he filled his mouth with conciliation. But what reconciliation can you have with a worker, a worker, a doctor, a doctor, a nurse, a nurse, when you have to be all day at your disposal that you're forced to go to work at any time without a prior planning? Why don't you listen to the professionals and the proposals they have to cover the alternatives and the need for staff from the continuing attention points? Why don't you sit down and listen? Where is the right to rest? Where is the right to reconcile? And, of course, where is the right to strike — a strike with minimums that don't even cover? Duty to work, whatever the boss says! Here's what the health advisor says. Why does the People's Party repeatedly mistreat public professionals? It's no use saying they're good professionals. You have to pay them and you have to pay them their wages. They owe them 20% since 2010, nights and holidays, with a base salary of 1,100 euros, 1,100 euros! And they owe them nights and holidays. There's not enough staff and they're forced to do hours. You don't care what you have in your home, if you can or can't, if you can or can't reconcile, because there hasn't been any planning for years. It seems to you that it gives them absolutely no matter what. It's abuse of public professionals. The same thing that he lived and felt in that failed commission of inquiry when they refused that the professionals of the continuing attention points and users could come to this Parliament to speak. They told us they weren't cutting experts. Of course, cutting specialists are the ones sitting on the blue benches. That is why we have this situation. They said it wasn't interesting, they had nothing to give. They can't be here today because we don't have guests, but they're in the guest room and they can talk to you. The Health Counsellor, if he lives, if he's around here in these adjoining rooms, can go talk to them, or even the President of the Galician Board, who I think would be delighted and delighted to explain first-hand to them the problem they have, because no one hears them, no one listens to them. And we have a situation that is a danger to public health, which is an unfair situation for those who are working, which we believe can be substantially improved if some measures are taken. It's a contempt and a lack of sensitivity. They didn't even want to be so familiar with the person who died at the Road Market when they came to the investigation commission, because for you, it doesn't matter, they have nothing to contribute. They're insensitive to the pain of the rest of the people, to the problems of the professionals, they're absolutely insensitive. They are professionals who are working and asking for minimums to do their work, a job that is increased, as we have already explained -- and obviously how they explain them and them to perfection -- derived also from the cuts in primary care, because the waiting list of seven days, or ten days, that there are in some health centers to be cared for, makes it more frequent primary care emergencies. Therefore, the source of the clippings is a worsening of the rest of the system. The cuts in the base of the system, which is primary care, make the rest of the system worse. So, repeatedly, and today again, we ask them to draw up a plan for improving primary care, equipping them with personnel, equipment and access to budgets; and, of course, to recover primary care agencies. You recognized at one time — the People's Party — that they were certainly mistaken at the suppression of these agencies. We don't see any measure either in the Accompanying Law or, of course, in the memory of budgets, nor in the splits of budgets themselves. We need a plan for improvement. They don't take what was in the Bipartite, we know it's been many years. They make their own plans, and that we can contribute, that they can provide professionals, that they have means, that they increase their staff. Because this situation is absolutely unsustainable. We want the CAP to be provided with complete equipment, to comply with the European rest directives. Look what we've been suing, what they've been suing for months!: if you provide sufficient staff, suitable for the volume of work, for the territorial dispersion, for the age of the population, for the change of the timetable. It's not fair that the temporary incapacity, that the downsides, includes accounting for the day. Why do you have to give back a worker or a worker the hours from when you're sick, when you have a permit? And, of course, you listen to the professionals and you develop this contingency plan that allows you to keep staff available throughout the year to cover the absences. You need to look at employment, of course, improve quality in employment, and don't make it easier for the professionals we're training to leave. Of course, you have to make those who are in stable employment, listen to the professionals, make a plan so that there are no such discoveries that endanger health care. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u88	Good morning. In fact, the employment situation of Galician public health personnel has been a cause of concern and concern for the occupation of the BNG. And it's obvious that the People's Party is panicking that you actually know what that situation is. He wants to hide that reality in the lots of propaganda, he doesn't want that reality to be known. He wants to impose his account, his fraudulent account, and hide with his knee of absolute majority that reality. If I had nothing to hide, I wouldn't have any problem listening to what professionals have to say. But, as if you have a lot to hide, you don't want to listen to the voices of those professionals, and that's why it makes its absolute majority worth. Nine years of the People's Party's governments underwent a setback in job conditions without parallel: loss of rights, precariousness, a policy of back turned to these professionals — at least most of these professionals —, deaf ears, pre-eminence, order and command, taxation. And every day, more and more professionals are saying, "I've come here so far and this is unsustainable," right? They have many of these professionals mobilized and reveal themselves in the face of this situation, because they can't stand it anymore. The professionals of the CAP, 061, ambulances and other professional groups are on strike. In fact, it's a situation that you always try to find some kind of justification for which it's unjustifiable, situations that professionals have denounced as unsustainable. Mrs de En Marea has just said so. Press headline: "Sergas orders 65 hours of work in five days to a CAP professional — a professional with two minor children — for service needs." Sure, what do the professionals say? "We can't deny ourselves," without the possibility of reply. It's not possible to say "no," and the point is that it's not an exception, it's not a matter of time. Unfortunately it is the tone in recent weeks, in recent months: extreme working conditions, forced to work over hours, exhausted, which directly and negatively affects the quality of care. He's been denounced for months, and that's why he set up a negotiating table. And what do you find on that table? The contempt, simply a table to dilate the situation, a table where they find themselves that it is not possible to prosper in a serious negotiation, where they find themselves that that table is simply to convene another table, to convene another table months later, where they meet with the crowd of the People's Party, where they find themselves with the continued contempt of the People's Party. Ten months negotiating fruitlessly with the Health Council. They feel abused, they feel mistreated all the time. It's a situation in which every time they denounce those discoveries, which is not a timely situation. The situation of the Road CAP can happen at any other time, because in such situations of discovery, in which there is no coverage of these health personnel, it is continuing. We can make that list of centers where these discoveries are continuous: Moaña, Cambados, The Guard, The Parda. It's continuous, but the People's Party shrugs off its shoulders, well, it's going through another situation again! The BNG will support this initiative which it presents today in Marea, and we present an amendment simply to remember, to recall, that in 2008 there was an agreement signed that the People's Party left suspended in 2010 due, theoretically, to the death of the crisis. The People's Party says the crisis is history. If it is history, it is necessary to recover those agreements suspended in 2010, which I remember were remunerative agreements, especially as regards the specific complement, as regards continued attention, as regards wage equalization agreements — for example the CAP staff — and agreements on continued attention: evenings, holidays, Sundays, holidays, to those who are entitled to charge 100 percent of the shifts because they are employed, and it turns out that the People's Party only pays 80 percent when they do 100 percent of the shifts, for example. When Sergas' staff work nights, Sundays, and holidays, it turns out that they don't charge proportionally the same amount they would charge, as in other health systems, or as in the specific supplement they charge the rest of the Galician board of directors. Is it fair that they cover the same? The BNG seems to us to be, and it seems to the People's Party that it doesn't. That's why he stole their rights and he's not willing to return them. From BNG we consider it to be yes, and that's why we present this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u90	Thank you, President. Good morning. From the PSdeG we will support this motion regardless of whether the amendment is accepted or not. We believe that the motion represents the natural demands that the CAP professionals are making, and that they agree with what we have seen defending in this plenary. At Commission 5 this very Thursday, we socialists have a proposal which also deals with this very circumstance of the CAP professionals, and we also believe that the amendment enriches the motion. So, regardless of the amendment, we're going to support the motion, we think it's necessary. We do this because we believe that the demands of the CAP professionals are not only natural but necessary. The defense they're making of their stability and the most basic questions about their work is absolutely natural. It should be remembered, although all healthcare professionals have obviously commendable work, that in some cases — even because of the difficulty with which people access the system — they are valued in a special way. And in the case of CAPs, we're talking about people doing a huge job in terms of hours, stress, stress level, solving and helping with a wonderful level of efficiency. But we're saturating your work as professionals, we're demanding them above what is necessary and almost decent. And it's also a matter of system deficits. When we strengthen the CAP, when we strengthen primary care in general — but in this case we are talking about the CAP, which is basically the point of this motion — we are solving the problems of hospitals, avoiding the saturations of hospital emergencies. So it's more efficient if what you're looking for is the efficiency of the system; that you start to have the feeling that sometimes that's not the goal of the Government. So we argue that the conditions are within nature, within a reasonable health system, where professionals need special attention. Because there are still things going on in the Galician CAP that are worrying. That's how that fatal outcome that happened this summer on the Road. But it can happen again, because they're still keeping the CAP with a team only in populations where there must be at least two, at least! It continues to happen, it continues to occur, as happened on the Road in August, as it happened in that same CAP days before, as it happened a little while ago in other CAPs — here some have been cited and there are others — and how it goes on in this system. There are CAPs that have to have at least two equipments and that have only one. And that's what's happening in those CAPs. By the way, things like this, which are the ones that the professionals claim, which are the ones that can be demonstrated with clear documentation, are the ones that lead, among other things, to the spook that the People's Party has done with the Health Commission, which basically has been limited to a very clear expression: that there are people who cannot come to talk here. Because there are people who can contradict reality, which is basically that something is happening that neither legally can happen nor properly can happen. And it turned into that circus -- using that unfortunate expression that used some voice from the People's Party -- in which basically that health investigation commission became an act of the PP where people from the PP are going to ask the People's Party what the People's Party is doing. And that's going to be reduced, unfortunately. And you could talk about these things, except now, with this proposal from the People's Party that was approved, when you have to talk about the CAP and what happened at the Road CAP, you're going to evaluate yourself without anyone working on the Road and without anyone working on a CAP. Brilliant! Brilliant way to show that one is interested in what happens in Galicia's CAP! Great! We're going to study the CAP without asking the people of the CAP, because that was the people who couldn't talk, that's the people who went out to talk here. It's consistent with the People's Party, because when they wanted to sit down and talk to the advisor at the beginning of their demands, they got them out of the room. And those are the people who are defending the decent work of the CAP and the professionals who are in the Galician CAP. So there's a real problem that the People's Party knows, that the People's Party refuses to face and that it hides. And that's why things happen to him: he doesn't want people to be able to tell him. And he doesn't want to show whether the official versions really, which unfortunately ultimately blame the professionals — if someone got wrong, if the other one didn't, if the other one wasn't... — were or weren't true. They weren't, they weren't. So that's what can be demonstrated, and that's why the committees are blocked as they have been blocked, and that's why the people's party's expectations of us in this committee. Because if the CAP professionals could talk about the things that are happening in the CAP, we could talk about the others. But that's reality, there are professionals who have indefensible, defenceless, saturated work situations, with an absolutely exaggerated number of hours, with conditions of material and human resources that are not acceptable for a public health system of a minimum of dignity, and who save the system because they are commendable professionals despite their leaders, who are said here to exploit them — which is true — and who take advantage of an excessively strong work model, excessively abusive. We're abusing our professionals and we're making them break-in professionals personally for defending a system in which they don't believe their leaders. And that's what this amendment stands for, and that's what we'll continue to defend, so we support it. And it is worth, if it is — even if it is only a symbol — to say that we are — unlike the People's Party — we thank professionals for what they do. We thank them for wanting to give a voice to the reality of the health system, even though there are people here who believe that there are people in the health system who shouldn't come here to talk. Because there are people who believe you have the right to say who can talk and who can't. And yet, still!, it's not acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u91	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u92	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Look, ladies and gentlemen, at the commission of inquiry, you got up. Of course, they had no interest in talking about cuts, they didn't propose a single expert. You can't talk about clippings here with rumors, as I told you in the budget committee. Rumors are many, but numbers are the numbers, and those are impossible to reject. [[Applause]] You also thought the president and counsellor were going to hide and not go to the commission. And when they found out that the president decided to go, and the advisor, too, they didn't seem to like it very much either. And it is you who will have to explain to the unions and to all those collectives who protest so much against the policies of the People's Party -- and who were on that offer that the People's Party made to them -- that they couldn't speak in the commission and we couldn't listen to them, but because you didn't want them. And with regard to the CAP, this issue was discussed at the committee about three weeks ago. And here we could talk a lot about the beginning of the CAP. I've already spoken to you at the commission. The first offer of Health in 1990-1991 was that the health care center doctor had fixed the 24-hour guards without release and worked the next day. Then, in the face of professional protests, what did you do? Two people — at least in my CAP, in the Carballo CAP — were hired to work at night if and at night not in lamentable conditions. It seems that's forgotten. Of course, all public workers had to suffer the consequences of the crisis. And, of course, it has affected our economic conditions and our working conditions by measures taken by different governments. We always forget that the only payoff we had wasn't from the People's Party was from Mr. Zapatero's government. But it's also true that with the improvement of recent years many of these rights have been recovered: the return of extra payments, the addition of extra payments, days of free circulation, additional vacations, salary increases, OPE, stability plan, contract contracts, open transfer contests or professional careers. In February, the CAP workers met with the groups and were also received by the Directorate-General for Human Resources, to which they brought that claiming table they had. In that same month, a sectoral table agreed on the establishment of a delegated technical committee, which held a first meeting on 9 March, where trade union representatives were present — as they could not be otherwise — and the staff of the CAP to present their specific demands. There were more meetings in April, June, July and September. If you've moved forward, ladies and gentlemen. The Council has come forward and accepted several of the demands of the professionals: the increase in Sunday diets and meals and dinners, the elimination of objectives of the percentage of hospital derivation — although everyone knows that this is an indicator of quality care — the problem of work clothes or individual protective equipment. And the proof of that is that in the GNP that Mrs Solla presented a few weeks ago in Commission 5a there were these points and in the motion no longer appear. The day counting system, which is adjusted to current regulations, has been explained and discussed between Administration and employees. Of course, there are discrepancies and a deal will have to be reached, but that's there. The different care variables that could justify an increase in squares were also studied at the meetings. Increasing squares does not seem to be a generalized problem in most Galician CAPs. That's also without prejudice to the possibility of punctual appropriations and reinforcements in the CAP when the assistance demand so requires. The approval of the professional career will represent for the 22,000 Sergas workers, including the CAP workers, an increase of 6% in their salaries. The Council constantly assesses the evolution of the indicators of attention in the CAP, which is what really has to generate the increase or not of squares. And by the way, they always talk about cuts. From 2008 to 2018, the CAP staff increased by 110 staff —51 family doctors and 59 nurses — 498 doctors in 2008 and 549 in 2018; 432 nursing professionals in 2008 and 491 in 2018. All CAPs are attended to at least by a full team of doctors and nurses. And what is clear is that increasing professionals in all CAPs in the current circumstances of staff would involve reorganizing them, it would imply having to close the CAP and accumulate them with an increase in isochrona, with an increase in the population being cared for. And something similar was proposed in that famous report that the Bipartite Government entrusted to prestigious professionals — in this case, in this chapter, Dr. Pablo Baamonde and Dr. Manuel Martín, who, of course, could not come to the commission because you didn't want to— It was then mentioned that there were too many CAPs and that these CAPs existed because of the pressure made from the municipalities. Do you agree with those expert suggestions, Mrs Solla? I think you won't agree. Do you know how difficult it is today to cover professional squares? I think you know them. The Vigo Administration — mentioned here in Vigo Administration — has just offered health care professionals the possibility of making voluntary guards to cover those absences. Today — according to the media — 15% of these CAP staff are down, and there is an OPE this month, which makes it very difficult to recruit potential staff to be tested. And you know what? A union, Labour Commissions, has resorted to that call, or the possibility of voluntary squares. I hope you don't have to do what happened in 2008 and 2009: the bureaufax 24 hours before a weekend with a notice of record to whom you had refused that offer. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we're for negotiation. We think we should continue to negotiate between employees and administration. And we hope that this negotiation will go the right way and that problems will be solved. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u93	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. For the motion's own group, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u94	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to thank the support of the opposition groups. We're going to accept the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block, of course. They have to negotiate on that sectoral table the rest of the rights that have been hijacked by the workers and the workers and return them. And it's time, once the growth or economic improvement is continuously advocated, even though, as we see in the budgets, this perpetuity situation of the cuts seems to be maintained. Mr. Voicer of the People's Party, bad for many, you know. The reality is, we think we should tend to improve the health system, not the other way around, not the back. Of course, if you go towards the sixties yet the thing was much worse, it's obvious. But we should be getting better and not getting worse, as has happened in the last decade. That's the current situation. And it's a situation that's getting worse in the last eight years, because the frequency of the continuing attention points increases and you don't do anything, they haven't done anything all this time to improve and adjust the templates to the attention needs. And it's more -- and I'm telling you, it's a point of the motion itself -- if you cut down on primary care, if there's a waiting list in primary care, people who go to the emergency points of continued attention are increased. It turns out to be an obvious circumstance for anyone. And you don't need to be an expert on the People's Party's paper in order to come to a commission. Because it seems like the cutting expert meats now give them to you. You see -- and I've said it before -- that you're pretty good at cutting. They've been cutting public health to exhaustion for the last ten years. Of course you have a lot of people in the Health Council, you have experts in cutting, very good cut experts, Mr. Voicer. It would also be good if Mr. President were to come to the Research Committee of the Marisquis. Maybe you don't want to talk about López Veiga on a commission. But I wonder if it's necessity when you talk here about increase and wage improvements related to public health professionals. Because, look, Mr Centeno, who, by charging EUR 1,100 of basic wages, you don't even pay the 20% you owe them since the year 2010 of evenings and holidays to professionals, you have it, Mr Centeno. What salary increase is he talking about? If you have them enslaved and they don't even pay their nights and holidays! Please! What 6% will increase the salaries of professionals? On the other day, we have had the appearance in the Committee on Economic Affairs — Programme 412B, the heading on statutory wages, Chapter I, Article 2 — and you can verify this: the increase does not reach 3% or what has increased GDP during these years, sir. One hundred. It's just that he can't even pay for his career. Which professionals are going to increase? What's the salary increase going to be? That's not true! It's in the budgets, Mr. Centeno. I ask them to stop fooling people and professionals, because it's not true. And, once and for all, they take measures already to fix this situation, because we can't take this risk anymore. I have to finish now. The professionals offered them a calculation, a formula for calculating wages, and offered them several formulas. And, of course, they were proposed and brought to them claiming -- and it's also in this motion -- a system that serves to have available professionals and, of course, to encourage that availability. You can't expect volunteering and force professionals to work 65 hours in 5 days, because that's inhuman. They're already solving this situation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u96	At the end of the debate on motions, we proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece on roads. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was accepted and not that of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Voting on the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia on roads. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u97	We now vote for the parliamentary group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the execution of rural infrastructure works. No amendments were tabled. Voting of the motion, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the execution of rural infrastructure works. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u98	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Ms Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to Sergas's staff recruitment policy. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was accepted. Voting of the text on the motion of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to Sergas's staff recruitment policy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u99	We suspended the session until 16:15, four and a.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u100	We resumed the session. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the staffing of the Galician Board of Emergency Services of the University Hospital Complex of Santiago de Compostela de medio humane and necessary materials demanded by the staff of the centre
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u101	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u102	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u103	Thank you, President. We deeply feel the need to bring this issue back here, six months after questioning the Health Counsellor, to ask about this matter, to make proposals, and six months after nothing has happened in a positive way in relation to the situation in the Emergency Clinic in Santiago de Compostela. His lordships are aware of the whole statement of motives, of all the problems that have been dragged for ten years into the Emergency Service of the Clinic and which have been moved here on multiple occasions, not only by our group, but by the rest of the opposition's voices and voices. A situation that caused protests for months of a weary staff, tired of continually suffering the contempt of their demands. A situation that unfortunately, and as we denounce in the morning in the motion that referred to the situation of the continuing points of attention, in the case of the Urgency of the University Hospital Complex of Santiago de Compostela also had fatal consequences. Up to three claims for death in the Prosecutor's Office by the professionals themselves claiming death in the corridors. And as your lordships in that hospital, which governs Mrs. Eloína Núñez, the last of those complaints in the Prosecutor's Office has motivated this situation to be transferred to the trial of investigation, because the prosecutor has indeed observed signs of crime. A very serious situation because we're talking about people dying. But we're also talking about so many others that fortunately they didn't fail, but they spent many hours, and even days, in the emergency corridors. I insist that structural deficiency drags on for years. It was the last year, year and something, that workers and workers insisted even more on the demands and on the problem denouncing what was going on. We even have copies of mail that were sent to the agencies warning that the lack of staff in those days could cause a problem. And indeed, and as we have already moved here in May, the day that the last person who was denounced in the Prosecutor's Office died, and subsequently opened those proceedings in the course trial, medical professionals warned the Health Council, in this case the agency, that something was going to happen because there were not enough staff and there were many people waiting in the corridors of the service. After all these protests, of the times we brought this matter here, the only improvements that the Health Council — Mrs. Eloine and all of her assistants’ workshop — have been worthy to set in motion are simply some simple material means and a locker, I think, to put into practice at night, that they do not demand the overallity of the demands. And I want to remind you here, to remember, because six months ago we haven't discussed this situation, which the Director of Assistance Process himself acknowledged to the workers the structural shortage, mainly of nursing professionals and nursing assistants. Of course, also doctors and doctors, but basically of these professionals, something that appears in writing in the minutes of the workers' meetings with the management of the center. This circumstance was transferred to the previous manager and transferred to the current manager. On several occasions improvements were promised, and even in September last year — more than a year ago — at a meeting of the nursing assistants with the agency, if they were told that improvements would be implemented and that they would become more professional. They came to offer, even increasing in five the number of medical professionals in the service. None of this happened, the only, practically, apart from that I just mentioned, that they did during the last few months was do some work in the Emergency Service, which obviously if professionals do not reject them, do not solve the structural shortage of staff. So the only thing they do is to continue to abound in the worsening of the service. When the management of the center changed and Mrs. Eloína took possession, from there they began meetings again; they told the professionals that there was an intention to change the structure, the operation of the work, to move from a operation that had at that time more compartmentalized to a team operation. The center template said from the beginning that no changes were denied at all or to work as a team, but that those changes and those changes were inevitably going to increase the number of professionals, because if they had any difficulties before, obviously when they needed to function as a team they would need more reinforcement. They said no, better implement the changes first, and then we'll see if they get more professional. What happened in the last few months is that changes have been implemented, that works have been done and that no more personnel has been set up. And the situation is even worse than before the changes, as the professionals predicted, because there's an organizational change, and more of that, you have to work as a team, with which they need more professionals and not less, as was happening earlier. The result: a disaster, we are again at the door of increasing the care burden for respiratory diseases in a process where structurally there are problems in the service. Some of the medical professionals — basically because you know that you first called a medical union strike and, later, the rest of the service also called off, because they are tired of empty promises — asked me today to remind me that the situation to which the Health Council is subjected is that of a warehouse; a warehouse where people are obviously suffering and suffer just like the others, and workers and workers who have to manage a warehouse to keep beds closed on the plants, as happened in summer, and it continues to happen; a warehouse for the Council to manage the suffering of people and professionals their service so as not to implement improvements. You will remember that in March it was news that the hospital leading Mr. Núñez Feijóo's cousin had patients in the corridors on the ground, because there weren't even enough camels or wheelchairs. A third-world situation, a situation that would be absolutely embarrassing to any one and a situation in which not only professionals were increased, but unfortunately not even the most basic of what was asked for, which were the materials, did not even all that was needed. Today we ask again here to provide the CHUS emergencies of human and material means in order to be able to provide quality assistance, because as I said in the morning, there is no right to subject anyone to work in this stress situation, in this situation of pressure, and there is no right for people to have to suffer the hopes cast in a corridor, to which a person may die in the slightest suspicion that more professional could have been met before, in view of the slightest suspicion! And I repeat, three complaints at the prosecutor's office, disputes open in the trial. But no matter what happens to that, I think you can't overlook a situation like this, and a situation that has been denouncing professionals for so long that they have come here on multiple occasions, that they have made protests, that they have put themselves in front of the Council, that they have placed in front of the Parliament of Galicia. Six months later nothing has changed, yet instead it has worsened, and the difficulty with this manager is the same as it happened in Ourense. If there were problems before, trying to meet or talk to this lady is absolutely impossible, if very difficult. And no one gives an answer and, unfortunately, professionals and professionals when they put themselves at risk the lives of people and when they are subjected to this stress have no choice but to go to the only tool they have at hand, which is a strike. I think, as we've said on other occasions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u104	There's a lot of noise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u105	Yeah, too much, the truth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u106	A lot of noise, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u107	As we said on other occasions, I don't think no professional or professional has as a first option to have to go to strike, and you know that today there was a meeting to fix the minimums, which obviously, and once again, will be 100 percent. It's about to see if it's going to happen as at the continuing attention points, that there's not even enough professionals to cover the minimum services because throughout the year they work absolutely at least. There are a number of demands from the professionals, they have been transferred to the management with care to the new situation, with arrangements for the new operation, to the need for at least five other medical professionals; the need for an increase in a locker, a locker on each turn; the need for increased presences of auxiliary nursing techniques, which, again, the management itself recognized that there was a need for more professional, but not for them. The increase also of several nursing professionals, the development of a functional plan with which professionals are concerned. Something as revolutionary as listening to professionals when drawing up the functional plan. And a number of measures, of course, in which they replace themselves -- already mentioned -- in a hundred percent of the absences, i.e., temporary disabilities, casualties, permits, something basic and elementary in an emergency service. Today I ask, once again, that for once you listen to the professionals. And those people who were gathered today and can't be here today on the bench, are also pending that for once — six months later — if they are given, of course, a satisfactory solution or initially feel like negotiating something that is absolutely minimal. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u109	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Indeed, we have to speak again about the situation of the Emergency Service of the Compostela Hospital Complex, a subject that we have addressed here in this plenary and commission and which we have obtained by the People's Party, and by the Government itself, by the councillor, the total dispelment, the non-consideration of the problems in this service: not to listen to the emergency service professionals, not to listen to their demands, not to listen to their complaints that have been made since 2012, which come before the various directions, which they have made before the People's Valedor, before the Council, without getting answers to their demands. They came to an extreme situation in front of which they chose to make mobilisations, chose to move the situation to parliamentary groups represented here in the Greek Parliament and, indeed, they made small — but not even — patches, they met their demands so minimally that almost no patches can be called. And in the face of this situation, the commission of the center made the decision to make a call, a call for a strike to start next Monday 12 if your demands are not met. Demands — we insist — more than justified by the time they have claimed the same and by the entity of these. Demands regarding the situation of staff, demands for material, demands for resources, demands for media. A situation of an emergency service of very high demand, with very little personal, with very low ratios with respect to other emergency services, an emergency service that meets a really very high population and which is continually in a situation of collapse, not at any moment in time, in times of flu, in peaks of summer or in point issues, but it is already a structural problem, as in most emergency services, but in the case of the CHUS already in a special way. The situation of the material is tremendously deficient, with a very important level of deterioration, obsolete in many cases, without replacements, with a deficit of staffing in basic materials. The tremendously insufficient staff, and there was an increase in space over this space, but it was not accompanied by an increase in resources. That is why we are going to support this initiative of En Marea, which I insist, which goes in the same direction as the initiatives we have brought on other occasions that we have filed a request with this update that has been made since this current call for strike by the commission of centres. And the amendment that we are presenting is in that direction, which is the development of a functional plan negotiated with the commission of the centre and agreed with a multidisciplinary team and adapted to the care reality that contemplates the use of 100 percent of the space in the emergency area with that staffing in a stable way, not with patches and not with a part-time staffing. The creation of an evaluation working group is continuing, the functioning of this emergency service, and also the initiative, which is the sufficient staffing in all groups and the replacement of the material. And I have to remember, for example, on October 29 they entered four hundred forty-eight patients and entered sixty-one. We're talking about a really brutal care burden. We request in our amendment that a protocol be developed for the assistance of patients pending admission while remaining in the unit, minimizing the length of stay in the unit and adapting them to the treatments. There are many patients who remain very long in the emergency service, with which these protocols need to exist. Another point is the prioritization of interconsultations generated in emergencies. Often, from this service, interconsultations are asked that they are not attended to as much as they are necessary to do with a priority that they are not taking into account. And the last point is coverage of 100 percent of the workers' absences. They're working with services, with low-minimum staff frames, and it's obvious that when any of these people in the staff board are missing, 100 percent coverage is needed, because if they don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u111	...the paintings don't provide much-needed service in this emergency service. Clearly, even if this amendment is not accepted, we are going to vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u113	Thank you, President. Continuing the debates on health issues, we are going from the Socialist Group to support this initiative, whether or not we accept the amendment, which we consider does not change our vote in any of the cases. And in the morning we were talking about the situation of the workers and workers of the CAP who are on strike, and now we're talking about the emergency professionals at Santiago Hospital, who next week have called a strike that is not the first, that they've done another before. And we're asking in the service if from the German Government, from the People's Party, they think that health workers call sports strikes or because they think their service can be improved. Because they think they're on strike, as was suggested here at one time, because they're manipulated, because they're against the government, because they want to look down on public health in which they work or some of those issues that really sound like linguistic pirouettes. The truth is that the workers do what they do is basically fight for their service and to give as much health care as possible to the citizens they care for. And what they consider is that in the conditions in which they are, they're oversaturated and it's not possible to do so in a way that is minimally worthy of the quality that our system deserves and can offer. And that's what professionals say. And anyone who can pass through the service can prove to be true. Because I've often suggested that if these debates had them in a waiting room at a hospital, or a health center, the reality that is held here is sometimes impossible to defend, impossible. Because right there it's easy to check how impossible it is with the same staff, or less, to take on more space and a level of equipment that often doesn't improve the existing one or that if it improves there's no personal training or ability to do it in terms of number, because more space with the same personal and worst service. In general terms, less personal and worse service. And the workers made proposals, and they had the notorious will to make proposals that, really, I'm not an exaggerated thing, they're not proposing the moon or buying the latest model machinery and devoting all the budget to which the whole emergency service is equipped. They are quite sensible proposals, proposals trying to adjust to being realistic, in order to contribute to the improvement of the system. And the case is that they're practically null, minimal; then the reality of the workers is that they're defending a system in which they check that their leaders don't believe, and that's what they're checking from here. By the way, with little presence of the manager of EOXI. You're empty sharing like the lottery, first they gave it to Ourense, then to Santiago, and the truth is it's a lottery that people don't want to be touched by, because it's complicated. By the way, one of the people who doesn't want me to come here. In that case, I don't think it's because they didn't want to hear what they were saying, but they probably didn't want to hear what we wanted to ask him. Probably! [[Applause]] But as there are people who are protected in the system, protected, like the manager of EOXI, when what happened on the Road, they're protected and you can't talk about them, I don't know why. Of course, on the issues mentioned by the Health Committee, the People's Party's proposal is there, it is voted on and approved. I ask them not to lie to what they proposed, are there, the twenty-six associates are who they are, no one else. Let's be serious about this. But you defend, as Mr. Núñez Feijóo defends, that we are -- I think I remember, or correct me if it isn't true -- at the best moment of Greek health. They're on strike at the CAP, they're gonna be on strike at the Santiago Clinic's emergencies, but it's okay. It's said that there's a thousand five hundred other professionals, they're not budgeted, they must live in the air, nothing happens. People waiting at Salnés Hospital, third closed floor, people waiting days in emergency boxes, nothing happens. The ambulances are on strike. It's okay. Poor people blackmail the system. It's all right. Pediatricians want to put a change through the back door that you have to invade the Councillor's office, because you didn't talk to anyone, nothing happens. The Board of Auditors systematically says that the Council's budgets are lies and that they cheat on the accounts and that they are wrong about putting together things that are not then to change, to do it opaquely, and that they don't have a plan that is reliable, nothing happens. The Ombudsman ridicules and shames this whole system with what he said from the center of Conxo, nothing happens. Users tell us that we are Spain's third worst health and that it increases the number of citizens who already prefer private people than the public because of the deterioration that is suffering with this government, nothing happens. A patient dies on the road, nothing happens. There are court rulings that say this government is protecting chiefs of service who hire their friends at discretion and make courts that are for nothing impartial, as happened in Pontevedra, and nothing happens. And we keep listening that nothing happens here. And we wonder at this, like other situations, People's Party gentlemen, what world do you live in?, what world? Because the health of this country is at the limit and you are forcing it to break, and this is unacceptable. We are going to support this initiative, like many others in this same sense, as some of us have led in this same line too, because it is indefensible to subject health professionals to the sole responsibility of defending the quality of the system. In case they don't realize it too, whoever runs a system is responsible for its quality. At least, since they say so, they listen to the professionals, in case today they hear the CHUS Emergency Professionals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u114	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u115	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. They're bringing a non-law proposal today on the claims of the CHUS Emergency Service health personnel. And Mrs. Solla, you are talking about a chaotic, uncontrolled and abandoned situation in which the emergencies of this hospital can be found. Nothing we haven't been used to in their interventions. But it's hard to say what you say, it's really hard to understand, especially for the thousands of people who attend the emergency services of Sergas hospitals. Look, I know you look at yourself in the mirror of another health model, other latitudes, and that can sometimes confuse you. He's talking about lack of material resources and staff, a desire for hospital management, and what I think is far more serious is that you say this causes tension between emergency personnel and that it also makes the quality of care worse by affecting patients. What you're saying is very serious, I don't think you've meditated much on those words. The patient's care quality is above all, it's above all that, and that's well known to the health care workers; but that the emergencies are saturated, these tensions that you say, Mrs Solla, can never affect, never in the quality of care. The patient is above all. He's talking about ratios and materials. Well, let's go to reality, the CHUS Emergency Service in 2017 served 154,763 patients, 80% of them adults and 20 pediatricians. This volume of emergencies is distributed in morning, afternoon and evening hours, and 83% of requests for care occur during the day, from eight in the morning to ten in the evening. To serve this service, there are forty-five doctors plus one coordinator, seventy nurses, forty-four nursing assistants and thirty-five janitors. And in emergencies, we must remember that there are three shifts: tomorrow, evening and evening, each attended by different faculty. If the demand for care is very high, it always reinforces itself with more staff, according to needs. Professional staff have an adequate dimension to meet current demand, and you know that scientific societies estimate that an average of 2,992 patients per year, which gives an average of 13.6 patients per doctor and day. Sorry, these 2,992 patients are what comes out of the average that is met in the CHUS emergencies, because scientific societies estimate an average of 4,445, so time is right and the average wait fits perfectly according to the standards set by the Manchester selection system according to the level of assigned emergencies. I want to remember here, too, the stability plan assigned in 2017 by all trade unions, except for the IGC. I wanted to remember — because you were talking about times being not — that in the selection system that is used, the Manchester system, no patient at any level, both of 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, wait longer than the necessary time set. That's how the standards are met. If you have anything to say, you can come here and say it. In the last two years — in addition to the last two months — as you have also said here, there have been improvements in this service. The CHUS Emergency Service is sufficiently equipped in terms of both professional and material resources to provide the urgent assistance that patients require with appropriate quality and safety standards. Everything is better, it's true, and besides health we have to be demanding, but always looking at reality. Look, Mrs Solla, you yourself admitted here that this led you to Commission 5th, and in that Commission 5th we made an amendment that you refused. If you were really concerned about the care of the patients, you would accept the amendment we proposed to them and would not again present this same initiative. We take that proposal seriously and, as the current data shows, material media are being strengthened and staff are being strengthened when circumstances require it. And this is the difference, that there are those who want to offer to come to agreements and apply them and who prefer to reject them and continue in the protest, something we've seen in these last days. And Mr. Torrado, and gentlemen of the opposition, don't confuse, don't confuse people. You're the only ones responsible for not appearing in the Health Committee that you yourself proposed and then turned back, refused and stood up. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u117	Thank you, President. First, thank the opposition groups for their support; we will accept the amendment. I've translated some part into the intervention, because it's true that once these functional and structural changes have been applied to the service, demands are also adjusted to the current situation. I don't know if the spokeswoman of the People's Party feels satisfied with her intervention. I don't know if you think it's useful for something that you've come to do here, that intervention improves in some way the situation of workers and workers, that they're going to start a strike on the day 12; if you feel satisfied, you rest well at night with this kind of intervention and lie about how much data serves for professionals. And I wonder why what we just lived here is ridiculous. I'm sorry, but we had several debates about this situation, and I've already said in some of them that you had some data on times of attention that weren't the ones given by professionals, and that you had a management problem. And that management problem comes to this day: there's a strike called and they can't keep looking to the other side. And if you don't want to listen to me, Mrs. Friend, I'm going to read to you what the professionals say, because at least they can't come here, see if you have to listen to something the professionals say. About a year ago, we were announced by the Administration to carry out a functional reorganization of the service, which would lead to a structural reorganization of physical space and a drastic change in current patient care circuits. That little plan has to do with what they're now walking about, creating certain chaos among the workers themselves: the work teams, which were the main pretext that was used, are now losing strength, because the obstinate negative from the management of increased personnel prevents the creation of such equipment in a stable way. We have seen with perplexity various information in the media in which works are praised as an important gain in space, translated –din – at an increase in the number of assistance grants that will allow greater agility in attention. It gives the impression that the complex managers only dispose of the dissemination in the media of images showing the queues of patients in the emergency corridor, and that's why they carry out works in order to find new spaces where they can be located, but without worrying whether they are suitable and worthy of proper assistance, or whether they are equipped with sufficient personnel to properly care for them. It's absurd and irresponsible — they said — to think that the quality of care can be improved, given only the restructuring of physical space. You want a warehouse, not a professional one, so you don't see the patients in the corridors. The reality is this: three complaints in the Prosecutor's Office and the opening of proceedings for the last of the deaths. My friend, don't come here to tell us about movies, feel with the professionals. There's a situation that they define as chaos and, of course, yes! when they don't put down personal, you can't give the same quality of care. I don't know if you've ever been to the Emergency Clinic; I do, and tell me that the rest of the opposition voices too. I should go over there and talk to the professionals, and by the way also tell Mrs. Eloine that, for once, I stop messing with the hospitals about what happens and she feels like listening to the professionals, who are the ones who know what work is going on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Proposal for a non-law of the People's Party of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members, on the impetus for the Galician Council for actions aimed at the signing and application of the protocol between Aecosan and Intemar
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u119	There are amendments from all groups represented in the House. [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, through his spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law.Additional amendment.Additional amendment.The following text should be added to the resolution: "The Welsh Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to make a report including all the documentation and material prepared to aspire to host in Galicia the European laboratory for bacteriological control of bivalves, and to refer to all meetings held in this regard to the persons involved in the process."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs María Montserrat Prado Cores, through her spokesperson and in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislation proposal.Additional amendment.Additional amendment.The following point should be added to the resolution: "The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to submit a report to this Parliament in which it contains the causes of not having yet signed the protocol to appoint the INTECMAR as a National Reference Laboratory for marine biotoxins and control and classification of production zones, whenever it shows that the same was drafted five months ago."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs. Julia Torregrosa Sanñudo, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law amendment.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution should be replaced by the following:"The Italian Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to address the Ministry of Health, Consumption and Social Welfare in order to deal with the signing and implementation of the protocol between AECOSAN and INTECMAR, which enables it to designate INTECMAR as the National Reference Laboratory, at the national level for marine biotoxins and control and classification of production zones. This process will include a report which will also be forwarded to this Parliament, which collects the certification of all management carried out by the Galician Union to host in our territory the European laboratory for bacteriological and bivalve control before the EU and the State, as well as the documentation of meetings carried out with this objective."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u120	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u121	Well, thank you President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. In this speech, I will try to be clear in the explanation that this is exactly what we are asking for in this LNP, to make a short chronological journey of events and the reasons why it is important and — a little — to give us an idea why we are here. Then, in the replica round, I'll talk about the amendments that the three groups have tabled. Once the United Kingdom's disconnection from the rest of the European Union has been known, the Galician Union — and, in particular, the Council of the Sea — worked in the field of its competences at the very first stage in obtaining further arguments — as we have already said and explained here — to defend fishing interests, to minimize its impact on Galicia and to make an opportunity for this unprecedented process in Europe. So there's a roadmap, and they're made and used different paths. At first, a series of reports are required to analyse aspects of economic efficiency, such as the possible impact on the cessation of fishing and on access to water, especially those of vessels that are made in British waters and in the Malvinas. In particular, reports were sent to the Professor of Applied Economics and Expert at Fisheries Economics at the University of Santiago, María do Carme García Negro and, on the other hand, reports are sent to the University Institute of European Studies Salvador de Madariaga at the University of Coruña, to assess the consequences of Brexit for Greek fishing. All these actions relate to the objective — as I say — of continuing to put forward arguments so that Galicia and Spain can find an opportunity in this Brexit and, therefore, also to be in the possible negotiations and work committees that follow this UK start-up with the European Union. In the study of Salvador de Madariaga, which I referred to, see the opportunity to bring the bivalve laboratory to Spain and Galicia. Therefore, the Brexit process led to the abolition of the Community Reference Laboratory for the follow-up of viral and bacteriological contaminants of bivalve molluscs, currently granted to a centre in the United Kingdom, the CEFAS. It was not the elimination of this laboratory, but it was a breakdown of competences; therefore, supposedly organisational and economic reasons led the European Commission and the Member States to break down the functions of this CEFAS in four centres throughout Europe, and according to their tasks and specialties is the Spanish laboratory responsible for this task, located in Galicia, Vigo, which is also the National Reference Laboratory in this area. In the post-Brexit future, the task of this laboratory would be to track down the control of production areas, where Galicia is highly prepared and has a lot of experience through the Intemar, derived from the fact that our autonomous community possesses a greater production of bivalve molluscs at European level. In other words, Galicia has touched on the breakdown of the four competences to the most important and broader part of its work that has so far been carrying out the CEFAS, located in the United Kingdom. Hence the need for cooperation between Galicia — the autonomous administration — and the central State. So the possible synergies are put on the table, the collaborations in compliance with a Community legislation to control areas of production of bivalve molluscs. That is why Galicia, at a given time, offered to support the implementation of national tasks. That offer would be part of a protocol between Aecosan — which is the Spanish Consumer and Food Safety and Nutrition Agency, responsible for the laboratory — and the Intemar — which is the Institute for Marine Control, as you know — within the framework that they would both agree to coordinate actions and exchange knowledge towards greater effectiveness in the various fields of action. In particular, what was requested or what was requested? First, Aecosan designated the Intemar as the National Reference Laboratory for Marine Biotoxins and Control and Classification of Production Areas and, second, the Intemar committed itself to three points: one, to facilitate access to the necessary samples for the organization of comparative interlaboratory tests or periodic aptitude tests required by the Community Reference Laboratory; the second, to accept formative visits to the staff of the Community Reference Laboratory and to share managerial experience in the production zones in Galicia with Aecosan, and third, to fulfil the functions and responsibilities of the Community Reference Laboratory for Bivalve Molluscs Reference Laboratory. At the time of the change of central government, the protocol — which I have just explained between Aecosan and Intemar, between the Government and the Union — was drafted and studied for its treatment by the Ministry of Health, Consumption and Social Welfare. In the face of the change in the Central Government, the People's Parliamentary Group presents this initiative, and what we really ask here is that we continue to process that protocol, which can be signed and brought forward, by the interests of Galicia and by the interest we have in this area of fishing in the European Union. So this is more since Galicia had it. However, we have always argued that we wanted all the areas of the Community Reference Laboratory, we have always been behind the whole of the areas, but, as I said, there was not a desubication of that laboratory, but it was divided into four competences. In January, the Councillor for the Sea met in Brussels with the Director-General of DG SANTE of the European Union, who is the Director-General for Health and Security of the European Union, and at this meeting the Councillor presented the following points to the Director-General with full transparency: one, Galicia's interest in monitoring the evolution and scope of the European Union's decision to divide the competences of this Community Reference Laboratory into four Member States from 1 January 2019; secondly, she told him of the experience of the Greek institutions in the iodine of bivalve molluscs, given the socio-economic relevance of their cultivation in Galicia, and thirdly, she also spoke of the opportunity, before a hypothetical review of the decision, to assign to centres rooted in Galicia the functions of the European reference laboratory for the follow-up of viral and bacteriological pollutants of bivalcous mollus. The Director General of DG SANTE exposed the advisor, among other things, the possibility that Vigo's reference laboratory will lay the groundwork for establishing a working protocol together with Intemar, and this is of vital importance to Galicia. Galicia has continued to work with the Central Government, because, in this case — as I say — the protocol emerges, the former Health Minister is convinced to collaborate in the control of production areas, and that protocol is passed to the Ministry, and he is already in processing. We listen to the manifestations of the Minister Planas, who was in Galicia yesterday, and we see him quite receptive, we see him receptive in addition to the challenges of Brexit and therefore we trust that the new Central Government will continue and comply with the previous Government. And with this protocol — I insist — Galicia only wins, the Greeks only win. The Spanish Food Consumption and Safety Agency would derive from the Instituto Tecnologico para la Control do Medio Marine (I insist that it is in Vigo, which is in Galicia) a good part of the functions of the National Reference Laboratory for Marine Biotoxins and, therefore, in this way it is involved in the European Union, and as a European referent, the Autonomous Community of Galicia (through the Intemar) and also improve its own relations with the National Reference Laboratory. We continue in the same line, we continue to request the same, but we want to see ourselves in the central government that we are all supporting this initiative from Galicia. And Galicia and Intemar, in addition, are ready. Now we've been in a budget debate and we've seen that the budget of the Intemar is reinforced: the rise of the transfer to be carried out at this growing center in twenty percent. It's the tallest budgets in the last seven exercises: it's 3.3 million for that center. It also reinforces its functioning, verified with accreditations. This institute successfully revalidated the accreditation of Enac — which is the National Accreditation Entity for these centres — and successfully passed the audit of the Food and Veterinary Office of the European Union and received the recognition of the United States FDA — which is the Food and Drug Administration — as a centre capable of meeting the legal requirements of control of that country. Therefore, it is perfectly meeting international requirements to be the laboratory, to collaborate with Aecosan and to be referenced throughout the European Union. We have very high self-esteem, we know we're the best in this field. In addition, I believe that the powers which have been allocated from the CEFAS are the most important ones — which is zone control — and we therefore hope that all groups will support this GNP for Galicia's interest in the European Union. Then I will talk about the amendments which, as I say, all the groups have tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u123	During 2017, we attended that vodevil, that fiasco of Galicia's candidacy to the European laboratory for bacteriological control of bivalves, which, upon leaving the United Kingdom of the European Union, had to leave that country. He gave evidence of low credibility, lack of guarantees, distrust, for, in the German Government, and left above all evidence as to how things should not be done. They generated false expectations knowing that these false expectations were being generated, they were misleading the population when it was known that the population was being deceived. Brussels had already decided to remove the centre and the Spanish Government had not only known it, but had voted in favour of suppressing it, when the Greek Government, the councillor and the president of the board were still with headlines and announcements that Galicia had all the tickets for that laboratory to come to Galicia; that is, the most amazing ridiculous ridiculous. In spring 2017 they kept working for the European laboratory to come to Galicia. Well, they announced a candidacy that was not possible. They said they were working on a candidacy, that they didn't exist, and that it wasn't possible. I mean, really a lamentable act. And — I insist — despite the official speech of the Counsellor and the President of the Government, there has never been any candidature, there has never been any petition about it. That is to say — I insist — lamentable. And the next chapter was the adviser in this Parliament saying that nothing was going to happen and that Spain would play the most important part of the functions of that laboratory, because the European Union had taken the decision to distribute it in four parts and that the Spanish State would, by decision of the Cefas, carry out the classification and follow-up of the production areas of bivalve shellfish. And that the commissioner of the lab had asked him to ask that he come to the Spanish state, that he was in those jobs and that the Intemar had a relevant role there. In short, I see that they didn't learn anything at all, that, instead of working to get things done and after you manage to say "we have this here," because they keep repeating the same scenery. And from there comes the amendment presented today by the Nationalist Block Galego. The normal thing is that in a country like ours and a nation like Galicia -- that is, a reference to the world level in the production of bivalves, and much more could be it if we didn't have the Government that we have, which refuses to enhance that enormous potential, is worth redundancy, and exploiting that immense wealth that is our laughs as to the production of bivalves -- because it would not only be that we had these reference laboratories but that were genuine research references and many other things. But away from that, we went a little begging the strawberries. But, well, that will be the subject of another debate. In any case, what scandalizes us at the BNG is that it was said five months ago, when the Government of the People's Party fell out of a motion of censure, which was almost tied up and, according to the initiative of the People's Party, only needed to sign and the People's Party came here today to ask this Parliament to approve an initiative to urge the Government of Greece to resume I don't know what negotiations. It really seems to us that five months after that it was practically meant to be signed, it would come with this initiative. That is why the amendment we tabled is that it is actually taken forward that the Intemar is the reference laboratory at the state level. What a power we are in matter! But let me present a report to this Parliament on why five months later this is not done. That's less, isn't it? Unless you explain to this Parliament the reasons why, if this was practically for signing, five months later it is not done! I believe that we deserve an explanation of who is responsible and why this is paralysed five months later, why we must bring this Parliament an initiative to urge the Government to ask the Spanish Government to do so. It doesn't look like a receipt at all. And if you are paralyzed who are responsible, what happened in the midst of all these months of paralyzing this issue?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u125	Well, at least we're waiting for an explanation. And BNG is in favour of the Intemar being the reference laboratory, but also for all explanations and light and tachographs. Of course, another ridiculous thing like living people we don't think the Greek people deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u127	Thank you, President. A merit must be acknowledged: the ability to conceal, or attempt to conceal, is amazing. It is obvious that this initiative is brought here to try to defend a false account of what happened, to try to slip. Because the ridicule made with the Greek candidacy to the European Bivalve Laboratory was amazing, the one that Feijóo announced in the Intemar about the same dates that the candidate of Vilagarcia announced. And it looks like it's going the same way. [[Applause]] On those dates, there was that announcement that didn't exist. And surprisingly that announced it was presumed here that it did but then it did not, that it did not appear because if it appeared, that there were no papers because it did not. And then it was done because we don't know what happened. And it was the fault of a Lithuanian European Commissioner—socialist, of course—who said he voted but didn't vote. And in the end, no one knows what happened in Together. The truth is, it's amazing to try to bring this protocol here now. Because, besides, you know, Mrs Egerique, that this protocol does not proceed, this initiative cannot be supported. I know you think it's a little fun that you can't support. Can't be supported for three reasons. The first is that we do not have the roles that we have here on this initiative. I'm not like that. Science guides, scientific support, do not control areas. First lie. The second is that you asked for this where it wasn't. Of course, now one explains what happened to the European candidacy. It's just that you, who are supposed to know the subject, and the council, who are supposed to know what departments or departments of the ministries have to talk about, were asked to ask Aecosan to pass some skills that Aecosan doesn't have because they depend on the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. You asked where it wasn't! The European laboratory that they wanted to ask the same thing asked on a visit to Shanghai. You just have to know who to call. But it is more — I am surprised — that I have already taken note of his intervention, Minister Dolors Montserrat was very concerned about working on this agreement. But if it wasn't your competition! It is also true that seeing Mrs Montserrat's last speeches in Congress is normal to be a little disoriented. It's normal! [[Applause]] It's better, first, to find yourself. [[Applause]] But I was working on signing a protocol that didn't compete with him. And these would be sufficient arguments, but I'm going to give you one more, Mrs. Egerique, because there's one thing we can't do, which is to fake the story. Do you know what's going on? That you know this. This protocol does not exist anymore. You know why? Because the Rajoy Government has already answered to the Council and has already told it not to proceed — May 29th. There is a resolution from Aecosan — you certainly know exactly who Mr. Castrodeza is, which was addressed to Aecosan, the Executive Director — who has already responded to this protocol that is requested here. He asks us to support now a protocol to which Mr Castrodeza, who was leading Aecosan when the People's Party was ruling, has already answered and said — I allow myself to read literally — on the first question: "It is important to note that control of bivalve mollusc production areas is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Health" — that you here say yes. Conclusions: "It is not appropriate to sign the partnership protocol". It doesn't work! [[Mr. Torrado Quintela addressed the President of the House to leave a document.]] Mr President, I believe that it will be easier to debate if I leave the report to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u128	Or complete it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u129	Or complete it, yes, for you to complete it. [[Laughter]] It doesn't work! It's just that your government, Mrs. Egerique, has challenged your counsellor that you couldn't sign this agreement because it doesn't work. And they said, "Look, among other things, it's not here, it's at the door next door." And you here today, five months later, come to suggest that we tell the Ministry of Health, that you have no competence, that you continue to process a protocol. And the Ministry of Health will say, "Home!, I continue but here it won't give way anywhere." But they're talking to who to talk to! By the way — I assure you, this Government will be concerned that this protocol — if you call the door it is — can go forward, surely because there is a good will. Do you know what's going on? There's a small difference -- but a difference -- this government, when it says it's a candidacy, sign it; when it says it's a protocol, it has to have it ahead; and when it says it wants to bring something and defend it for Galicia, do it. I don't put him in the papers to end up in ridicule. Therefore, Mrs Egerique, this initiative — which I sincerely believe should be withdrawn after this explanation — cannot be approved because this protocol does not exist, is dead. And you knew it because you killed him. You showed up where he wasn't and the PP government told them: He's not here, and these functions aren't. And five months later they bring us an initiative to defend a protocol that they know is not about it, that is not in that competition, but that we have to defend Galicia. Start by knowing where Galicia is! But do you really know what they're proposing here and that they're defending a protocol that doesn't exist? Do you know? And if not, the president has the report. I know that the debate is complicated, but it is appropriate to have the report. [[Murmurs.]] PP is asking PP and asking for something. The PP tells the PP, and now comes to propose to the others that we support something the PP says no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u130	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u131	In the end, we're all going to vote in favour and you're against.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u133	Mrs. Egerique, a little serious in the debate! They're proposing to vote something that you can't vote for and you've denied! [[Applause]] Therefore, they withdraw this initiative. [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u135	And, look, I think it would be pretty sensible for them to bring the same initiative but asked for the ministry that it is. By the way, remember, if you take an initiative to sign a protocol, send the protocol. Like what happened with the European candidacy, they didn't send it. Sometimes emails do not exit, we need to look in the sender tray.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u136	Thank you, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u137	So if you bring this initiative, we will agree because the Ministry is in favour of facilitating a very good work — which is that of Intemar. But, of course, that's why someone has to ask them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u139	And we have to ask where he is. You have to know what to do, Mrs. Egerique. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u140	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u141	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. We can't add any more. This proposal I think is clear that it is disconcerting, at least. And even more so his exposure to the version of the facts. Undiscovered that you are requested, like, once again, to the Central Government a protocol offer that seems to have been drafted before the change of government. While early in September the Faro de Vigo published the news that last August 14 the Commissioner for Food Safety and Health, Vytenis Andriukaitis, in response to a question put to him by the Socialist Euro MP José Blanco, repeated what he had already said earlier: that the Commission had not received any official request from the Council of Galicia or the Spanish Government. Thus, the Commission denied for the second time that there were contacts so that Galicia could take up the tasks which it would carry out until 31 December. He said, "A mismanagement is revealed on a very important issue," as you recognize in your own proposal and what has already been discussed at the meeting of the director of the Intemar in commission. We also came to the press with the information I read textually: "The Government of Spain hid for months, between May and October last year, who knew Brussels' decision to eliminate the laboratory and who even voted in favour of suppressing it despite Galicia's manifest interest in hosting this center. During that period, Junta maintained a campaign to defend the potentialities of both the Instituto Tecnologico para a Control do Medio Marine, the Intemar, and the Vigo laboratory. The best Greek representative, Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, came to proclaim the options of the Intemar in a solemn act during the 20th anniversary of the center in October, when Galicia no longer had any choice. Not since the fisheries and health departments -- as we speak here -- "then in the hands of Isabel García Tejerina and Dolors Montserrat respectively, he clarified why that decision was hidden from Brussels first, and did not oppose it later." And before that, we had to comply with a picture of Mrs. Quintana talking to Mr. Andriukaitis and hearing justifications from the spokesperson of his group that there was no possibility of official application, which seemed to have to understand that the only possible management was to negotiate it in the corridors. All ineffective, and justifying one mistake after another is not two. This initiative of 16 September follows on from the same point. Since this proposal seems very important to us, we tabled an amendment to your proposal, to clarify in a report sent to this House all the management which the Council of Galicia has made to host in our territory the European Bacteriological Control Laboratory of Bivalves for the European Union and the State, as well as the documentation of the meetings that have been held for this purpose. They say it increases by 20 % the budget of Intemar. Yes, but it seems to us that it is necessary to know these managements, in addition to explaining how it may be that this budgetary departure in Chapter VI, where real investments are determined, for example the replacement investment associated with the operational operation of services and non-material expenses is reduced to 200,000 euros when it is expected to launch this protocol to designate Enter as a national reference laboratory, which makes it suspect that it will also be a smoke cloud to conceal an ineffective management that will take us to an end of history when it ends this year. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. The author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u143	Thank you, President. Briefly, before we talk about the amendments, Mrs Prado. I have to tell you that what you call deception and high expectations is called ambition, the ambition of this government of the Union and the ambition of this Popular Parliamentary Group. And you always don't, always letting the opportunities pass. They will want and vote against this initiative so that we lose this opportunity to be the national reference laboratory. Yeah, yeah, they're always against it and they let the opportunities pass. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I wasn't in the past legislation, but listening to the debates, we wouldn't have the ship's workload today, nor would we have a new public hospital in Vigo today, nor would we have anything, because they're always against and voting against. To the Socialist Party, look, Mr. Torrado, Aecosan's competence, to begin with, is health, that's the first. I think what you don't know about here may be you. So, come here comedy club guy to do a nice intervention that doesn't have anything funny, tell me it sounds funny... No, no, I think it's entrepreneurial. It seems to me that you are here today, which is what the bulk wants to go down and which says the arguments totally contrary to what they said when the People's Party was in the Central Government. The ones we haven't changed here are us. Of course, that kind of action is nice, they don't know anything, the People's Party says it says and doesn't say it says, it's a very clear way to slip the bulk, and they do it clearly in the amendment, because you didn't get it, nothing you said here is amended. If you're so sure of what you're saying, you're as clear as the procedure and you're as clear as the protocol, why didn't you end up? You're doing what you're doing here is an amendment that's totally contrary to what you're talking about today, so they change the subject. And I've already pointed out here that it's not necessary to accept this amendment when you're talking about something totally contrary, which has nothing to do with it. We're talking about protocol, and here you're talking about something else. Therefore, Galicia has never applied because it does not have the capacity to deal with an agency, but rather with a decision which is adopted by the European Commission itself by the division of powers. So, as you don't amend in relation to what I expose here, we don't understand it and we won't, of course, accept your amendment of addition. As for the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block, which you have explained here, Mrs. Prado, the truth is that these explanations have to be given to them by the ministry. I've explained that this is in the hands of the ministry. Aecosan is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, and it is not up to the Council of Galicia at this time to report on the measures and the causes that you are asking us for in this amendment of addition. In Marea you present a modification amendment speaking and also asking for timely information. They asked six questions in this Parliament and five of them were answered in the plenary; that is, they already have enough information, what happens is they come here with a speech saying that we lied, saying that we didn't tell the truth and saying that it wasn't the way it was. So they're not going to vote for us to have the chance and the opportunity to collaborate. I know that there are parliamentary groups here — especially the PSdeG in Galicia — that cooperation gives them sarpulity. So, I don't know, I can't ask for cooperation anymore. But what we have to ask here is for the Union and the Central Government to cooperate so that the Intemar and the Aecosan work together and we can reach the European Reference Laboratory in Vigo, Europe! So if you want to vote against it, you can vote against it, Mr. Torrado, there will be no problem. Fortunately, we have an absolute majority and we can get it forward, and the lab will be in Galicia in spite of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Proposal for a non-law of G.P. Popular, at the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago and nine other Members, on the demand to the Government of the State for the realization of the deadline and the formula chosen for the abolition of the pay of Roundola
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u145	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u146	To formulate the proposal you have the floor Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u147	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Let me speak to you today on a subject that affects me for many reasons. As a member of parliament, I am a member of the Germans, but I am especially a member of the Roundup neighbourhood, and today I am allowed to speak as one of the Neighbors of Roundup. Some neighbors that we've been suffering for 12 years are an unfair situation that is detrimental to the development of our region, resulting from the survival of a discriminatory AP-9 toll in our village. Let me make a little background on this situation. The reality is that all this began with the elimination by the Bipartite of the toll between Vigo and The Morrazo, a decision never explained by the Bipartite, which seems to have been intended — and seems to us well — that there was direct communication between the citizens of Morrazo and Vigo, and so far nothing to claim, but we never understand that it had been done the cost of harming the competitiveness of the village of Roundondola, which was the only toll except for the total release of that plot. Later, years later, Mr. José Blanco announced the extension of the Rande Bridge on the AP-9 Highway, and announced it in a way that we have already remembered here on different occasions, right? After the last council of ministers before the election, 24 hours from the reflection agenda and hiding the whole of the Greeks that would be the conditions in which that enlargement would be made. When the elections were passed, then lost by the Socialist Party, we knew that there was a new recording with this enlargement to Chapel without contemplating any compensation for their neighbours, and, once again, we knew that thanks to PSOE Audasa had done a great deal, an increase of 1% of the fares throughout the highway for twenty years, a rate of 1% cumulative for twenty years and 8% of annual interest. There's nothing wrong with the business. The fact is that the roundabouts got tired, we got tired, we said enough, and we have to say that the Town Hall of Roundup led by its mayor, Mr. Bas, stood in front of the negotiations, and with the support of the Neighbors Roundup got very important improvements in the parish of Chapel and a commitment from the ministry: the elimination of the toll in the summer of 2018. A great news that unfortunately was frustrated by a change of government, legitimate, we have nothing to say in that sense, but that had consequences. Very serious consequences for Rounding it up. The first, an unjustified delay in the approval of the sale that contemplated the improvements negotiated between the Town Hall and Audasa; a delay that was justified with excuses and falsehoods, saying that there were no reports — that were not necessary and that we have no knowledge today. A national member of the Socialist Group even appeared to round it, explaining to us how complicated this was. The truth is that the neighbors didn't believe him, along with the mayor if they went to a concentration in front of the Government Sub-Delegation, they signed a manifesto that supported more than 65 neighbouring associations in Round it, and, after this neighboring pressure, what could not be done in five months, was possible in five days. Today this amendment is approved, today it is already being worked in the new school, in the nursery, in the new avenues, there is already a low sound impact asphalt, it is already working on the anti-noise screens, etc. But there is another unsolved delay: the no-date delay of the commitment to the elimination of the fee. One wonders why no action is taken on which unanimity existed in this House. The PP, I have to say, gave the greatest ease. What we ask is the same, government who governs. We asked the previous government, and we asked the latter to eliminate the toll and determine what the model for the elimination of that toll will be. It is true that other groups were more specific. The PSdEG, In Tide and BNG demanded, that this be done by budgeting. And not only had budgeted the elimination of the payroll, but it had also assumed budgeted the cost of works to prevent the rise of 1 % per year for 20 years. Why didn't you do it? We've recently heard some statements clarifying this. I allow myself to baptize them as the Calvo doctrine, which says that what was said in the opposition is not the thing that we are in government. Because you're transmuting the moment a motion of censure takes place. What was the leader of the opposition transmuted, Pedro Sánchez does not exist, now is Pedro Sánchez the president. And the president won't be bound by smallpox that he said when he was in the opposition. [[Murmurs.]] Strange things! [[Applause]] It's a matter you've already got us used to. And, of course, compulsory elimination of the pay of Roundla is a non-priority elimination. The rise of fees throughout the AP-9, which was illegal, remember?, which was not done because the works were not finished, the works are still exactly the same, but now it turns out that it is a legal obligation and they rise to the fee; to which the People's Party had not gone up, by the way. And the works that were to be taken up by the budgets, now they are taken over by means of peas. That's right, even though they're negotiating new budgets with an increase in state income of more than 6. billion euros. This reminds us that, when there were 7 billion more budgeting with Xose Blanco, this was done at prices. Then, when I was ruling the People's Party, then not anymore, then I had to assume it by the People's Party's Government with less than 7 billion. And now, with 6 billion more again, you've got to take it from the beach again, why? Because what you said in the opposition doesn't bind anyone who's now in government. That's the Calvo doctrine! Does Calvo care about Galicia? Let me read some things. See, May 9, 2017, plenary meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, it is fair that the General Administration of the State compensates Galicia for the investment deficit made over the past four years. It is fair that this compensation leaves no effect on the cumulative sum of 1 % and even recovers the bonus of 7 % removed in 2012. If this consolidates and does not correct itself, accepting proposals such as those we are debating, we will accuse the President of the Irrelevant Union in Madrid and consenting to Mr Rajoy's inequalities by discriminating negatively against the Greeks and the Greeks." Well, he did not change him, but we're going to do the fiction, where were the demands? Where have you been, ladies? Here's a picture of two Knights, a younger Knight and a mature Knight. In my opinion too mature, I have to say it. I was saying some really curious things. The release of this stretch was compulsory. How are we going to be in a metropolitan area with a toll highway to communicate a city of 300,000 and a city of 30,000? How can this be? Horseman transmuted. Listen, look what a photo... what a joy, what a happiness here next to the minister!, after telling you that the delay in the AVE of Sardinia is going to be three years, that you have to do a new study, and that the payoff of Round it... man, we'll go and look at him. Minister's statements, we'll look at him. But: Despite a lack of realization of infrastructure projects, the mayor of Vigo expressed satisfaction with the provision. What's going on? Look, Your Honor, I have to say, to talk about the future, I have no doubt that the payout of Round it will disappear and will do so sooner than later. The question today is whether you're going to be next to your neighbors to make that happen, or we're going to have to do it without you. Roundedla's citizenship won't stop until this is consumed, but it's true that he has certain reasons for concern. Look, Minister Aballos' statements in an interview with the Vigo Lighthouse -- I think it's a good reference -- which he did on his last visit. They have to deal with Audasa as with the promise to release the toll of Roundola. We've gone to Audasa on two unsuccessful occasions. The problem we're going to find here is that it's going to concentrate a lot of traffic, maybe we have to go to an enlargement, to a third lane. I read this and the one on the third lane sounded to me, and I said, I read this linen somewhere. And where did I read it? Study of the effects on traffic on AP-9, carried out by Audasa. This one that you said didn't exist. Is there, and do you know what Audasa's proposal is? The one the Minister gives us to praise them! Home!, I know that the PSOE with Audasa is a story of love and dislove, but didn't they fall in love too soon? Did they just go back to the government and they're already defending Audasa's stance, you guys who were so hard, when they were in opposition, against Audasa? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, frankly disturbing, it is quite disturbing. I hope — seeing the amendments that have been tabled and that we will discuss immediately — to have the unanimous support of all the groups because there is no change of mind here, we all agree on this, and I also hope that we will have the opportunity for the groups that rule today, one in the Government and the other as a priority partner, to assume their responsibility with the neighbours of Round it, to take the step forward, not to apply the Calvo doctrine and maintain, now that they are in power, the same as they said when they were in the opposition. Calvo's doctrine defined it very well many years ago as an old professor, Tierno Galván, who coined that of "Electoral promises are enough not to fulfill them." It's a very subtle way to call citizens fools. I hope you don't miss the citizens of my town today, they fulfill exactly the same commitments they had when they didn't rule in Spain and assume that they have to support this request to the Government to carry out when the payroll will be eliminated and how that fee will be eliminated. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u148	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u149	Thank you, President. The fact is that it was amazing — as the Portuguese would say — the intervention of Mr Pazos, with this demanding attitude of the People's Party in relation to AP-9 and the Central Government. You were talking about transmutation, but what we saw here in the case of the People's Party was almost a transubstantiation. Because, of course, you have failed to put on Robin Hood's hat and pen and come here with a flag defending the humble people in the face of the abuse of Audasa. What a sight! Of course!, I'm sorry they didn't practice when they were in the government this combative and demanding attitude against the central government and put a stop to the abuse of Audasa, because then you were quiet, singing. You are not credible, because you have been in the government of the state defending and protecting the interests of Audasa; and also since the Government of the Union, from the People's Party of Galicia, protecting those interests; and you are responsible for all the decisions, or most of the decisions, detrimental to Galicia that have been made in the last twenty years. You are responsible for extending the concession in twenty-five years. Now there are highways of the AP-9 generation that will be without toll from next year, but here we will continue paying until 2048 thanks to the People's Party! You are also responsible for the privatization of Audasa, the veto three times in this legislation on the transfer of AP-9, and you are also responsible, the biggest ones, for the abuse of the fees of the last ten years, which has reached 42 percent. [[Applause]] Because, these ten years, you ruled in the state for eight years. So don't come here to teach lessons of nothing, not even to teach lessons of struggle for the suppression of the peak of Roundola, which is a achievement, above all, of the people, of the neighbouring mobilizations of Chapel and Roundla. Last of all, by the way, you haven't been. I don't know if you have any problems with Chapel parish because it doesn't go that far. That's a merit of people, of mobilization. It's very good to bring here an initiative that talks about the suppression of the peak between Round it and Vigo, but the first thing that the People's Party would have to do is to apologize for not having it removed, that they had enough time to do it. You should apologize, to begin with. And also because of the failure to comply with the numerous resolutions and agreements of this Parliament regarding AP-9, which have also been ruling all these years and we are waiting for these agreements to be complied with. I'm not going to talk about the transfer, which is an excessively busy subject, but we could talk about the privilege of 95% of the IBI bonus that we approved here and we're waiting for. Or the bonuses, from the file to the dealership, from the audit of Rande's works, from the study on the rescue of the concession. Anyway, we'd be talking all afternoon about these issues that were passed here and that were useless. We've already told them once that we'd have to approve the deals on paper so they won't give you the use you give him. And of course, above all, last week — this is the responsibility of another government, of the Socialist Party, but you would do exactly the same — the Council of Ministers approved two new increases, of 2%, which are the result of agreements signed by the Socialist Party and the People's Party in government with Audasa. Two of you. In 2011, the Socialist Party of Mr. Blanco, and in 2013 Mrs. Pastor's People's Party, signed an agreement with Audasa that brought us this year a gift of 1% rise, 0.8% for 2019 and 0.18% for 2020. So they also assume their responsibilities, they don't blame everyone else. Having said that, the BNG has tabled amendments that we hope they will take into account, because we believe that they improve the original text and, above all, specify the issue of deadlines. The first amendment has to do with drafting your proposal. We want to figure that this increase is not going to be the account of a new rise in fees, because we've been three this year, 4%, and it's going to come another year in the IPC and more of the agreement, of the two conventions that signed the PSOE and PP. We also want, as we always defend, to take account of state budgets. We say it before and say it now, we do not change our mind. And we also want deadlines, Mr. Pazos, pitches! We also want the pending issues to be included here, which have been adopted in this plenary and which are still unfulfilled, such as the elimination of noises, the anti-noise screens, the urbanization of access to Vigo or the pending works in Chapel and Trasmannó that are not done. And you also have a lot of responsibility for that because you've been ruling in the last few months and in the last few years and you haven't done it. They're pending issues because the People's Party has left them unresolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u150	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u151	Good afternoon. I have to recognize you, Mr. Paz, that I am sick of this game of cynicism which you intend to make us play. And yes, it is true that there is a question where we can agree, which is in the exchange of papers in Madrid. That's right. But they both play the same game, you and the Socialist Party, unfortunately. Then they don't put us in that game. We'll defend the same before, after, here and in Madrid. And that's something you should do. We're not going to play that game. You started by saying that twelve years ago we have a very serious problem in Round it up. In the last six you ruled, the People's Party, and they didn't solve that either. Mr. Rajoy was in the government for six years and he didn't solve that problem. And now he comes in a great deal of haste to ask for the resolution of what even the Welsh Members of the People's Party in Madrid voted in favour of it. [[Applause]] In this, you should go with much more humility and come with much more humility to talk here, because you have a rather serious history of Audasa. Yes, very serious, of corruption and use of institutions to benefit friendly companies. You were talking about the history of the Socialist Party's love and dislove, but that of you is of love alone, of love. Mr. Rajoy's friend, Andrés Muntaner, when that company was publicized, was already CEO, when he privatized himself continued as CEO and lived very quietly. That's a love story that cost us many millions. You have the responsibility of a privatization at a friend's price, to give a company with a competitive infrastructure that you can earn, after paying taxes, one out of every three euros. And it's your responsibility, the government of Aznar, when Mr. Feijóo was a councillor of Territorial Policy and said neither mu, and we're paying him so far. You are responsible for extending from 2023 to 2048 the concession of AP-9, so now throughout the Spanish state they are releasing from concessions all the less motorways here in Galicia, which we have the most important until 2048 under Leonine conditions. Responsibility that also has the face to deny when we are now charged, in one year, 3.9 percent, which is shared responsibility of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. If a decree signed by Pepe Blanco assumes the rise of the fees of 1% by Rande's works and the works of Santiago's circumvaluation, the other 1% is of a decree, on 104/2013, signed by Ana Pastor. So don't come here to throw balls, play and solve anything. Because in this game what happens is that Audasa is very quiet. When we talk about this and we don't see it globally, Audasa is very quiet, never lost, it's a game that Audasa never loses. You were talking about the expansion of three lanes. Perfect! We free the peak of Roundla, they pay the other users. The rates go up at AP-9, and, still above, as the demand increases, we make a lane. And what do we do with that lane? Do we extend the concession for more years or do we raise the fees for him? It's a game Audasa always wins, and you're never willing to question it. The initiatives to bring here are to put an end to that game where Audasa has consolidated conditions, by successive decisions of socialist and popular governments, and to take away the privileges she enjoys. How is it possible that a public concession given to a company is calculated in the way that this company derives half of the profits from what it makes? What do you call that? Can you honestly answer me when you come up here and tell me how you privatize an AP-9 and we can't tell you that this is corruption? How is that possible? How is it possible not to predict the benefits that this dealership may have and if it is allowed to have these immoral benefits? We've been insisting that we have to talk about the rescue of the highway to the public and we've asked for a study to know the real numbers, according to the Contracts Act, of what it might cost the AP-9 rescue, so we can value not only here, but in the Galician society, if it would be a profitable business for the general interest. And you systematically refuse to accept that study. They never did. They never want to. No, you're well informed, you've never voted for it or done it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Be well informed... be well informed. Ask Mr. Fernández Prado to see whether they voted or not. So let's go to the fundamentals. That is, if the fair demand for the elimination of the costs of Round it is based on raising the fees to the rest of the users, we'll be doing a bad business. That's why we tabled a amendment to your proposal saying yes, that the payroll will be released, but that it will not be the cost of raising the fees even more to the rest of the users. And we also ask that there be a study for the viability of the rescue for the public of this infrastructure, the only way to end this history of blackmail and the Oudasa scam that you yourself have been given for political decisions by the People's Party fundamentally.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u153	And I'm done. Finally, there will be a vote in the Congress of Members on a bill passed unanimously here, Mr Pazos. You said you were surprised, how could it not be brought forward by a proposal adopted unanimously in this House? How is it possible that the transfer of AP-9 to the Congress of Deputies has not yet been discussed? It was possible because you voted three times to process a law passed here unanimously...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u155	...and you here said one thing and there said another.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u156	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u157	It's worth seeing even if in this debate you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u158	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u159	...say something here and then do something else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u160	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u161	And it has to be seen -- and it's over -- what the Socialist Party does, because I also have to say that the Minister's statements against AP-9 are not tolerable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u162	Your time is up. Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u163	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Paz, I'm going to start by quoting you literally because you've called my attention powerfully. You literally said, "A change of legitimate government. We have nothing to say in that sense." Pazos said, end of date. If you take note of some of your colleagues in the Galician Parliament who speak something that is again a coup d'état. Yes, unfortunately some of them speak of coup d'état, but each one uses the dialectic which he deems relevant. You mentioned that there was a problem of fast falling in love with Audasa for certain agreements. If that is the case, as I have just reminded Mr Sánchez, that extension for twenty-five years, from 2023 to 2048, signed by Mr Aznar — newly raised from the ideological point of view — and Mr Álvarez Cascos, if the former was love, this is eternal love, this is the reality of the granting of Audasa. He spoke before the Comedy Club Mrs. Egerique, and now you've done some kind of emulation talking about Calvo doctrine. I'm going to tell you: speak also of the Feijóo doctrine, speak of the Feijóo doctrine, which consists of applying all the intensity that existed before from Galicia, with respect to the central government, of submission, transformed and reversed in application to the demand of things that were not previously taken into account at all. It's the same, it's the same, you also speak of the Feijóo doctrine. There is a unanimous agreement in this Parliament on the elimination of the peax between Vigo and Rande, particularly between Rendondala and Vigo, and we shall vote on this non-Legal proposal of the People's Party. The problem is that, as much as Mr. Íñigo de la Serna, that minister who came to Galicia half-monthly as if he was running a degree — not all of the leaders of the People's Party seem to have been running — to be examined at the end of the semester, he came and counted the AVE traves that were set, the kilometres of chainwork that had posts etc., etc., etc. That's where I came from. [[Applause]] But it turns out that in the budgets of the year 2018 we found absolutely nothing that indicated that there was political will to eliminate that weighted price at the budget level. Somewhere it should have been, but of course, it must be initiated in the reading of budgets to see where that political commitment was that it said it existed. Mr. Iñigo de la Serna said it was going to be a long procedure. The hemerotheque we're on. The truth is that the new Government has already prepared a project of royal decree, with a new agreement that has been handed over to it — as you think it knows perfectly and deliberately — on June 9th to the concessionaire. I mean, we're talking about putting problems on solutions, problems on solutions. That's the reality. And the truth is that an action taken initially to facilitate mobility in Galicia precisely today, which we have brought a motion preboked to the failure of the MOVE Plan, an initiative aimed at facilitating mobility between Vigo and O Morrazo, as you know perfectly — much better than me because it's that area — but in any case to eliminate a lap of the Vigo River of about 60 kilometers and more than an hour of duration, crossing the National 550-554 and Pontevedra 551, has been transformed by this agreement on a journey of approximately 27 kilometers and a half hour crossing the Rande Bridge. It is true that this reasonable measure has assumed a certain inequity, from a territorial point of view, with regard to the neighbours of Round it. That inequality is the consequence of that measure, and we agree, it's a toll that must be eliminated. But just as we told you that the payoff from Round it up to Vigo and Vigo to Round it up, where there is a certain urban continuity between one city and another population, that same impulse could best be directed by you too so that the Galician board will eliminate the payoff between Vigo and Nigrán, because in this way we also communicate and facilitate mobility between the people moving between these two localities, between this city and this town. [[Applause]] Because, of course, you know perfectly well that the alternative to the journey between Vigo and Nigrán, avoiding the toll of A-57 -- of course, it's the least, but it has a higher cost than the cost between Vigo and Round it, Vigo-Rande are 90 cents, if I'm not well informed, and VigoNigran is 1.10, therefore, it's higher, but I insist that this is the least -- it's also a matter of equity. If we recognize that there is inequity because if we charge a fee to some neighbors, we also demand that same fairness, and you can also use that same impulse to ask the Galician Union to release the toll between Vigo and Nigrán because, if not, the neighbors must suffer the ever slow and collapsing road—autonomous, by the way— Pontevedra 552. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u164	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u165	Thank you very much, President, ladies and gentlemen. How bad is the lack of memory, I have to tell you. I'll start with Mr Bará. Mr. Bará was asked who would care about the humble people. I'm telling you, who managed to build a cost-free school for the board or the Town Hall in Roundla? Who got it and compromised Chapela's nursery? Who managed to solve the issues of the highways? Who got the counter-fraud measures? Who made the commitment of a Government of Spain to the liberalization of the fee? We, who were next to the humble people. The question is where you were. [[Applause]] I'll tell you where you were, you were in the government that released Vigo's toll at the Morrazo setting up as the only exception round it. And now you're practicing here, of what? Pyroman-bomber? [[Murmurs.]] Come and tell us how to solve the problem you've created, your government, yes, the Bipartite? But who took that measure if it wasn't you? Or didn't they rule in 2006? It happened. Too many mojitos! That'll be it. Look at you, you have to have some common sense, because you want to compare the performances and the agreements that we signed each other and that we sign each other. No, look, some committed an increase of 1 % per year for 20 years, cumulatively, with 8 % per year of benefit. That's what they compromised. And others compromise an increase for three years in exchange for a 50% bonus in the usual user framework. Do you want to remove that bonus? Because they should tell the usual users. I think there are things... and allow me to explain them also to Mr. Sanchez, who told us they were not going to play this game. Mr. Sánchez, play, play, go play! Look, the first shame of this document is that the Government of Spain appears next to the symbol of a party. I'd like to know if it would be good for you that for the year the budgets of the Union appear next to the People's Party logo, because it seems to you that this is normal. I've been looking here, I don't know what part of the confluence you are, I don't know if it's part of the coupists, those who stood up for the coup, those who listen to you in Madrid, those who don't even give them a chance in Madrid, but I don't know where you are, either, but don't worry, I'm sure, if they make a plan, we're going to find out. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Of course they are. Hey, here's the document, 6 billion more revenue! Where's the Welsh Agenda? Because his name came here, he's in small, at Marea, under Podemos, but he's in small. And where's the Greek Agenda? We don't know her. He's worried about enlargement. It's just that you've extended the concession. They always forget to tell one thing. It was the change of work, the expansion of AP-9 from Coruña to Ferrol and Vigo to Tui. No, of course man, of course! [[Protests.]] Then I'm not surprised at the calculations made by your partner, the one who was yelling at me from behind, who does the rescue calculations by saying: I count the income, the expenses will already be borne by someone! Totally, as Mrs. Pichi said, as public money is nobody's, not computed. [[Murmurs.]] Anyway, it's a little... And finally, briefly, for Mr. Martínez. Of course we recognize that the change of government is legitimate! And criticizing how it was done, with the popular representation that it was made, and saying it's a pact of losers, is also absolutely legitimate. No, coup d'état we were saying they're trying to give some in Catalonia, don't read, don't read. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, I was talking about Feijóo doctrine. Look, it's such a degree of cynicism that some people don't resist bringing me a cut this Sunday. I want to read it because it's worth it: "The Knight held the PP governments responsible for the situation on the Atlantic Highway. On the 2011 convention signed by the then socialist minister José Blanco, he said: If it had indeed happened, I did not know it, but it should have been revoked by the Rajoy government that ruled six years." But you have to have jet to say you don't know!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u166	Amendments, amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u167	You're fine? Yeah, honestly, I'm willing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u168	Do you accept or not both?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u169	No, in principle not with a clarification, because there's one that alludes to mobility, to the improvement of mobility, making the road urban from the Towers of Padin, and as the PSOE lords said they would support it, I don't know if we introduced it. Since they don't want enlargement from the Towers of Padin, it must be valued.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u170	Do you accept or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u171	Not at first, but we're going to talk about it because it's still full, Mr. President. It's still full. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u172	Pending. Exactly. Thank you very much. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the negotiation process which is being developed for the establishment of a new wage agreement for the employees of the Navantia auxiliary industry in the Ferrol River, as well as the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in this regard.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u173	There are no amendments. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u174	Good afternoon to all and to all. Almost a year and a month ago, on October 5, 2017, workers and workers in the Fene-Ferrol naval auxiliary industry started a long strike that lasted up to 22 days; a strike that, from the very beginning, has been absolutely criminalized by Navantia itself, which has even led to the trials of the Galega Inter-union Confederation. By the way, losing this demand. But go for an example for a public company! Instead of applying dialogue and negotiation, he applied the pursuit and questioning of essential rights. [[Applause]] This says a lot about Navantia, but it also says a lot about the government's cowardice. The case is that, like today, the claim of these workers and workers is of absolute vigil and is clear: it is the requirement of compliance with the 2001 agreements; their incorporation, to guarantee them and to protect them and to protect them, to a stable legal framework, the provincial metal convention of the Crown. That strike a year ago I was trying to recover and secure rights, regulate them. It was the moment, moreover, because we came from that legislation which Mr. Feijóo repeatedly said it was from the ship and there was a minimally stable horizon after many years of seizure, but also, at the same time, a long situation of both uncertainty and precariousness. I want to insist that it's not an easy decision for no worker to go 22 days off. It's not easy for anyone, but much less for those and those who are on the loose rope, who are continually having paroons in the hiring, some parrots that don't always mean being getting unemployed or some other kind of help. It's a difficult decision, but it was also a brave decision in the face of an absolutely critical and, above all, unfair situation. You said we're talking about some agreements coming back from 2001, 17 years ago. Seventeen years in which the naval not only suffered the impact of the economic recession, but also the impact of hard forced conversions and the abandonment of administrations. That strike was suspended a year ago to continue the negotiation process, but the truth is today we see that the reasons have not changed, the situation has not changed, and we are back at a very delicate point, at the door again of a new strike if employers and Navantia do not abandon their hostile attitude. We must remember, in addition, that we are not talking about an ex-new proposal of union forces. We're not talking about an increase in wages, just updating those tables. We're not talking about a new agreement, which would require much more complexity, we're just talking about putting something that is already agreed between the union forces, between the IGC, the Commissions, the UXT and more than 20 companies in the auxiliary sector. I mean, a priori might seem that the difficult part, sitting one part and another part of the work framework, is already achieved. We are talking about agreements relating to wage tables and surpluses that should be charged and shielded by the work framework workers and workers of the auxiliary companies of the public naval — and I want to insist on the public naval — and I would also like to remind you of three issues that seem important to us since the BNG. First, that no auxiliary industry is ships. Of course, these companies work practically exclusively for Navantia. I don't say it, the experts in economics tell it, and also even the metal's own employer. We heard it this year, I remember an interview with Mallon that told us they were currently finding problems in the naval, both in Ferrol and in Vigo, to have specialized staff for certain functions. That is precisely the result of the impact of that crisis and the emptiness of many people who took the doors and suitcases to emigrate. A second question that we also find important about this is that, therefore, without assistants there is no Navantia, we couldn't have what is Navantia because they are in themselves an intrinsic part. It is also obvious from the impact and impact of this industry, which feeds more than 3,000 workers, that without auxiliary industry there is no Ferrol district. It would be absolutely different from the social and economic landscape. It is absolutely unquestionable that any question that affects the stability and the guarantees of these workers and workers has a brutal impact throughout this territory. And we want to remember today too and remember something that is often forgotten by this People's Party Government. I will literally read Article 1 of the Naval Law, which was unanimously adopted in this Parliament in 2010. Literally it says, "The Galician naval sector, so understanding the set of companies that have as object the construction, repair, recycling and transformation of ships and other floating artifacts, and its auxiliary industry, is, in terms established by this law, a strategic productive sector for the economy of Galicia." So it's unquestionable that the auxiliary industry is strategic, it's as important as the main industry. So we have to do our best to make their conditions better. It must be remembered that during the worst years of the crisis these workers and workers contributed to supporting this sector, also seeing their wages being devalued and falling without prior negotiation, for example, between 24.5% and 25% for an officer, or 5% for a specialist. We also know that this comes from a distance, that since the first restructurings there has been an absolute deregulation of the labour market associated with shipbuilding, without taking account of penocity, temporality and specialization factors required of this type of staff, which is also very marked by temporality and other factors. We therefore believe that we should ask ourselves in this Parliament what is necessary in order to correct this situation. For the question is that there are minimum agreements in those agreements of 2001, and the ideal would be that they would become part of the Provincial Metal Convention of the Crown to be so shielded. And why? Because that would help to end the uncertainty that implies that every day, that every week, that every month, when a worker is going to sign a new contract with a different company, he has to negotiate issues like his salary and some of his conditions. This would also have a positive outlook from the point of view of the Italian entrepreneurship, because it would avoid unfair competition from companies that come with out-of-court agreements, less than the corrupt metal, and that compete. And this would also give us greater bases for setting up a naval where we don't want to compete in lower conditions of workers and workers, where we don't want to compete in labour, but we want to compete in added value, experience and innovation, and for that it's essential to incorporate these agreements and to have greater stability that allows us to give a better framework for a work and professional field where we know that, because of the great variability in workload and so on, it's difficult to hire indefinitely. We want it to stop being difficult, we support the demands of workers and workers, and we understand that it cannot conform to an eventuality which is already absolutely structural. A more stable frame could help, and we have in our hand to provide our support to that. The reality is that a year later — I was saying at the beginning of my intervention — that that strike had been suspended to continue the negotiations, we are back at a time when the situation is absolutely stuck. After dozens of meetings, negotiations and agreements with one part of the company, more meetings with employers and more mobilizations, we're back at the door of a strike. While we are debating this issue, we are looking forward to whether there are any news from the Galician Labour Relations Council, but the fact is that the precedents of the last few weeks make us pessimistic. I want to remember that it was precisely the lack of dialogue of the employer himself that made these workers and workers back on October 25 to work on two-hour shifts per shift and to develop a walk from the yards to the Piano Bridge. That also last Wednesday they manifested themselves in the city of Coruña in front of two places that should stop putting sales in their eyes and get involved in this question: in front of the board of Galicia and in front of the provincial employer himself. As I say, we are looking forward to what results this meeting can bring to the Galician Labour Relations Council today. But the truth is, if that doesn't work, the result we're going to have is that tomorrow will start a new strike in this sector, and we think that's not good news. Of course, it's not good news for workers and workers to be in that situation again, which implies for their economic and personal condition. It's not good for the company, which has already shown us that the topic of strike doesn't like it at all. But the truth is, it's not positive either to develop the workload in time and form. It is not positive for the image that can also be given in the sector itself. In short, it wouldn't benefit anyone. So since BNG we understand that today all groups, regardless of the nuances we may have, must be added to two very clear issues.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u175	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u176	First of all, Mr President, a statement by this Parliament transferring support to these workers and workers in the auxiliary industry and committing themselves to their conditions and supporting them in their negotiations. And secondly, to urge the Galician Council to carry out all those actions that are necessary, to negotiate and to involve itself, as it should already be if at some point in the past eight years it had complied with the Naval Law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u177	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u178	...and had been involved in the management and administration of Navantia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u179	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. The Socialists' Parliamentary Group has the floor Mr Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u180	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. Naval construction in Galicia, and more concrete in Ferrol and its surroundings, is a strategic sector, as is historically the main tractor industry of small and medium-sized businesses in the region. Not only by the number of direct jobs, but also by the large number of indirect jobs that it generates for the auxiliary industry, as well as the important impact it has on the socioeconomic fabric of the region. Ferrol rail yards, dedicated to military and civilian construction, repair of all types of ships and manufacture of turbines, account for 22% of the province's industrial employment contribution, bringing up to 24% of provincial industrial GDP. As we all know, Navantia, and therefore the auxiliary companies that perform their work there, despite the enormous difficulties that have been going through our country, have known to evolve from a traditional construction started in the 18th century to the use of the most modern technologies, being a global reference in the design, construction and repair of billions and civilians ships and a key industry in the strategic sector for Ferrol and its surroundings. We therefore have an obligation to take advantage of the tradition and experience of a work culture consisting of qualifications and professions recognized throughout the Spanish State and other countries. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we want to convey our support to the workers and workers of the Ferrol River auxiliary industry in the process of negotiating the new wage agreement in which they are currently found. At this point, I would like to point out that it is the Council of Galicia that has responsibility for industry and labour relations, and that it has to intensify the mediation work so that the agreement can be materialized, which has already taken a year off. I would also like to remind the Greek Government that I should be aware of how much the families and the auxiliary companies themselves suffered with this conflict over the past few months, and of the terrible consequences that this can have for all their families. Besides, now that workers and workers from the county companies have reached an agreement in the Ferrol River, after reaching this agreement it makes no sense that it is blocked by the Crown Patronate, bringing very negative consequences for Ferrol and its region. Neither the auxiliary industry nor the county of Ferrol can afford it. And for all this, we've asked the same height of look at the provincial steel-metalurgic employer, so as not to despise workers and workers in the auxiliary industry in the Ferrol River. For all this, the Socialist Group will support this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez Seco. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Lago Peñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u182	Good afternoon. In Marea it supports the mobilization of workers from the auxiliary Ferrol naval industry. We do it on the street, participating in their demonstrations, and we do it in this House. Just as we support mobilization, the strike of women working on seawork, participating in their mobilizations and in the debate that will soon be here. [[Applause]] In our opinion, these are exemplary struggles that demonstrate the fallacy of the speech of recovery. It's true that we've had six years of economic growth, but that's not seen in payrolls, neither in working conditions, nor in work stability. It is six years of growth at the same level of GDP, but the participation of employees and employees, of wages at last, in GDP is still EUR 1,500 million below. It is an unfair, unbalanced model of the appropriation of wealth by companies, by the employer. And that has to do with many elements, but there's a very clear one, and it's the deterioration of collective bargaining, of the real capacity of trade unions, workers and workers, to negotiate on an equal footing their working conditions. That is why it is absolutely urgent to repeal labour reforms and that collective bargaining becomes an instrument of equality, development and social welfare. In the Presas he perfectly explained the conflict and I'm just going to support myself in some data. The Companions of Metal Elaborators are talking about an agreement that expired in 2015, and the employer refuses to negotiate. The workers in the Ferrol naval auxiliary industry are talking about a 2001 agreement 17 years ago. The case of the naval auxiliary industry — and although Noa Presas has explained it perfectly — is very difficult to understand, because there is an agreement signed by the workers and their representative organizations and by twenty-two companies, which have already joined two more. All the real companies that work in the sector and the workers' representatives have signed an agreement, and yet there will be a strike. That's irrational, absurd. In that hot strike call and that the unions and the workers are the ones who lose the most and don't want to do it, there are two culprits. One, the metal employer in the province of Coruña; an artificial, false, empty employer, who does not represent the actual companies of this country, does not represent them. We know what the history of the non-German employer is, but yes, of the Spanish employer, and where are some of his most prominent representatives. I'm going to add a note about what Noa Presas said, and Navantia also agrees with the agreement. These are the companies, the workers and the main contractor that is Navantia. Why? Because, as is now the setting of working conditions, they are made between specific companies and workers. And therefore, if it's not regulated in a global standard, any company that comes from outside distorts the market with unfair competition, with low wages. Since it's a public company, you have to make a public contract and therefore a competition that is won with a wage level, and that's why Navantia itself has a lot of distortions. In that sense, the metal bosses of the Crown, empty, unable to represent the companies. What about Junta? That is, is creating a huge conflict in a strategic sector of the country, and what does Joina do? What's your intervention? Do you do anything to intercede and resolve that conflict, which is a stupid whim by the metal boss of the province of Coruña? We don't think this board has any work councils. I have said it many times. When we ask Mr. Conde, the Labour Counsellor, he answers the Industry Counsellor, because he's not particularly interested in this. I'm done. On the 23rd day there is a boat in Navantia, and there he likes the Galician Union and the rulers to take the picture. Well, I'll tell you something. Or they do something, or on the 23rd day there will be no picture.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor Mr Tellado Filgueira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. I do not think it is necessary to remember in this House the autonomy enjoyed by social agents, employers and trade unions in collective bargaining. I don't think it's necessary to remember because that's how I collect it from the Spanish Constitution itself, which is so disenfranchised by some, and so it's also collected by the Workers' Statute. I do not think it is necessary to remember the necessary neutrality of public administrations in relation to collective bargaining and the possibility of reaching a provincial sectoral agreement in the steel metallurgical sector, which is what we are talking about. We therefore believe that what is appropriate is to respect the parties, which are the ones who must reach an agreement, who must lead the negotiation. If it is up to the Administration to mediate in the negotiation, it may have assumed the Galician Union through the Galician Labour Relations Council. I suppose no one is going to question the work he's been doing over the past few months on the Galego Labour Relations Council in this regard. So I believe that this mediation work that is called upon in the initiative that we are discussing today is already being done, so one cannot urge someone to do what he is already doing. We, from the People's Party of Galicia, are against the precariousness of working conditions in the auxiliary industry of the Ferrol River naval sector. We're against, we want to say clearly, and that's why we think it's very important that in the bidding processes that public enterprise does Navantia the working conditions cannot be an instrument to lower the wages of workers. Wage costs cannot be an instrument to compete between companies, and therefore the one responsible for solving this issue is Navantia; it is the one to which we must urge. I don't see any reference here to Navantia on this initiative, but Navantia has responsibility in this regard as well. Therefore, what is involved is that labour costs are the same for all companies that are tendered. That's what we have to work on, that's where we can claim. I believe that from this House this initiative would be complete if we walked in that direction. So it is true that there is an agreement signed by auxiliary companies with trade unions in the district of Ferrolterra. Twenty companies, the proponent said it. An agreement that now needs to be incorporated into that provincial sectoral agreement that is being negotiated. We can mediate, but we can't intervene any further. We must not, we cannot, say the Workers' Statute and say the Spanish Constitution itself. In this sense, I have to say that we have worked intensely since the previous government of Mariano Rajoy, whether you like it or not. There is the Fourth Agreement for Employment and Collective Negotiation, signed by a socialist Minister of Labour but negotiated by the former Minister of Employment. In the act, in fact, there were the two ministers, the People's Party, Fatima Bañez, and the socialist minister. That agreement signed with CEPYME, with CEO, with Workers' Committees and with UGT has two issues that are key to us. First, recover the ultraactivity of the conventions. It is collected in that agreement promoted by the Government of Spain, by the Government of the People's Party. The second is to amend Article 42 of the Staff Regulations to ensure the working conditions of subcontracts, which would affect the auxiliary of the shipbuilding sector in the Ferrol River. Why is it not required on this initiative that Pedro Sánchez, by means of this amendment, if there is a political agreement between the Socialist People's Party, because they have both participated in the signing of this agreement? I think it would be very important. Today the greatest risk to Navantia and the whole Ferrol naval is called Pedro Sánchez. We have been criticising very much since this bench Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero because in his last five years as President of the Government he has achieved zero contracts. Now we have to talk about Mr. Pedro Sánchez, who in a hundred days is that he didn't get any contract, he put at risk two very important contracts for the naval sector. As the BNG is now disguised with this fraternity with the Socialist Party, socialists are not criticized. Look, Mr. Pedro Sánchez in a hundred days put in danger the contract of Saudi Arabian currants, and Mr. Pedro Sánchez in these 100 days has paralyzed the order of execution of the construction of the F-110 frigates. That is fundamental to the naval sector of the Ferrol River. That's not what these gentlemen on the bench are talking about right now. Now if you ask everyone but those who have direct competence in the ferry sector of the Ferrol River. They were very demanding when I rule the People's Party, now that they rule their own, those of the Socialist Party, oh, friend!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u186	I think it's very nice, but let's get into our skills, let's talk about what's really important. In these general State budgets which have been approved by the People's Party there is a provision of EUR 250 million for the start of hiring the works of the construction of the F-110 frigates.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u187	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u188	Why has the Socialist Party paralyzed him? Why are the Tides of Podemos silent? Why does BNG take care of anything but that? It is true that the BNG is not in Madrid and therefore little can do. But the fact is that they don't even use this Galician Parliament here as a resonance box.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u189	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u190	The socialists don't touch them that are ours. Maybe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u192	...someday we have a chance to rule with them again. Get some paper! There's opposition! We'll defend the same. What we defended when the People's Party ruled...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u194	...and when the Socialist Party rules. Where are you? They're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u195	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u196	...from-sa-pa-re-do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u197	The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Presas Bergantinos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u198	He liked it already, Mr. Tellado. I know he liked us being missing, but we've got a mouse rope. Don't worry that we're resistant and we've got a mouse rope. Look, Mr. Tellado, with all the appreciation of the world, I can understand that in the fragrance of the debate all and every time we pull out a little more of an argument. But you say things here that don't even have the slightest credibility. If I was given a penny every time I asked for the derogation from the last two labour reforms from this rostrum, I could already load a fleet directly. If you want to, you can move it, which is the majority group. [[Applause]] We make an amendment in your voice or the mechanism that you comply with and we also add the derogation from labour reforms, and even now the People's Party has added to this issue, we have no problem. I referred at various moments of my intervention to central governments and their role to the Galician naval. I think you're smart enough to know and remember that by central governments both you and the Socialist Party have passed, so our criticisms go to those who correspond at all times, and no one doubt the position of the BNG. We don't even have the least complex, we never had it. And, in fact, it wouldn't be the first agreement for the Greek naval we took with the support of one or with the support of another, because we're always on Galicia's side. You're also talking about the autonomy of social agents. I think it's amazing the autonomy of social agents. We propose a declaration of support from the German Parliament. Without going any further, fifteen days ago I think we're all very happy and happy that for the case of the Alcoa company all and we all give our vows of support to those workers and workers in their conflict. Well, why not for the workers and workers of the naval assistants? They also say they can only mediate. I'll buy you part of the argument. You can actually mediate. We respect very much the work being done by the Galego Labour Relations Council, as well as the workers in the auxiliary industries. We're convinced and convinced that, if by the magnificent work they're doing out there, they'd already be those agreements incorporated. They're doing a job in that sense, looking for the legal fit and looking for the employer's support, very important. But that doesn't take away so that, if you're really so worried about the precariousness of the naval sector, you can take from that drawer that you must have hidden around, in the area of the parliamentary group, that naval law and that they must comply with it. Because it is not so long ago that I was not a Member of Parliament, but at the end of the previous legislative term this political group again promoted an agreement urging — and you voted in favour — that Galician Union had complied with the naval law and committed itself to entering into the administration of the public enterprise. If you were from within Navantia, you would have much more ability to convince that, in fact, the economic and labour criteria have dominated other interests, but the truth is that they have not shown any interest at this time in involving themselves there and they are not showing it today. The truth is, we've been talking about it now, more than 20 companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u200	...and workers and workers have an agreement and you come here once more to profile. It is something I regret, and since the vote on the non-law proposals is tomorrow, I beg you to meditate on this issue and to seek a political solution, because it will not be good for anyone who starts a strike tomorrow, neither for workers and workers, nor for the country, nor for the naval sector, nor for Navantia, nor for auxiliary companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u201	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u202	...not for the Coruña employer. So, you know -- and finally, Mr. President -- that they have a negotiator capital and a capacity for dialogue like Government that is not smaller, that is not less...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u203	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u204	...and what they have to do is use it and not follow the profile. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u205	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next initiative. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the processing of the dossier to declare the park of Pasadempo, of Betanzos, as well as the financing of the works for their rehabilitation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u206	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u207	Mr Rivas Cruz has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. "Speaks to the emigrants/of their homeland. - Tell them, my lady, what's wrong with them? - Galicia cries. / Tell them to search their homes / come back quickly; / that without them they do not want / paint the vineyards, / water the streams, / mature the chestnuts / in the chestnuts.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Mariqueña Puga, de Curros Enríquez. The emigrants' interest in the late 19th and the first-third-third-century Americas by raising the economic, social and, above all, cultural level of society left here, immersed in feudal structures, ignorance and exploitation by an obsolete and corrupt system, represented by the borbonic monarchy, which found no way out of its own rot, that interest intended to find a way out for that world without exit. America was a modern, fast-paced society where everything was possible, and emigrants trunfaed or died of disgust and disease. The pastempo benciero has been an encyclopedia of the era, designed as a park, where the visitor has no choice but to get rid of himself in questions and reasons about the universal culture of the time. All of this in a society closed and dominated by the most absurd religion, which took hold of consciences and collaborated in exploitation, maintaining ignorance and submission as a universal principle. The legitimate concern of emigrants is therefore materialized in the construction and provision of schools and civic centers, work centres and peasants that give faith of the delay that Galicia, lost the train of history, suffered. And local societies, founded by Welsh immigrants in America to raise funds and remedy the situation of the land that lies behind them, are examples of the collective consciousness of emigration of that time in favor of the modernization of the country. Most of the people who show themselves to be most critical and belligerent with the late Bourbon monarchy and who battle for the event of the Second Spanish Republic are emigrants returned to the vacancies that the economic winds provoke in the first third of the 20th century. Most of them will also be victims of the repression unleashed by the uplifted right-wing captains of the Franco, that butcher, in July 36, and are part of this endless list of missing persons of the forgotten memory. This place is a living memory of a stage in the history of this country, hidden for my generation, and semi-occulty for the present generations, which is part of the betancial heritage, but not only, because it is also the heritage of all the Greeks of yesterday and today, and we are under obligation to keep it for the Greeks of the morning. It is a common cultural heritage that is essential. This Pasadempo park, which in the course of the years has suffered multiple mutilations, deteriorations and various exploitations, is currently in a very serious situation. By naming the last episodes of his illness: in February 2017 a wall of the cave pond was demolished; on the 26th of last month, due to an action without feet or heads, he, in turn, touched the steamboat wall of the Retiro pond; threatened is the wall of the tiles—something unique, according to Casabella's report and company—, which is exposed to all kinds of attacks; also, the threat on the temple and the floor of the island; structural cracks in the cave of the Recoleta, possibly as a result of the pressure exerting the iron gateway on it... I have left the second sheet there, but I will continue arguing. What we're dealing with right now is to trace this problem -- no, no, I don't need it -- it's about tracing this problem, and the problem is that some administrations, together, have an obligation to address this problem. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Pasadempo park, which has been and is a wonderful resource for teachers to be able to teach the memory of this country's emigration, old emigration, but hard and powerful emigration that is part of our history, they're falling down, they're going. A road provokes vibrations that endanger the structure of the best that the park has; a gateway is exerting brutal pressure on part of the wall is threatening that cave. There are pledges and commitments on the part of the Member of Parliament — from the section that the BNG is leading — about 600,000 euros to put an end to this problem. There is, by the Town Hall, about two hundred thousand euros too. Lack of money and lack of will for the rest. We urge the German Government to join, to speak, to declare BIC space, to cut down on this problem at once. It's something the Bentaneouss claim and we claim all the Greeks we know about that space. It's hours to do it, and we're going there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas Cruz. You have the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group to Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u210	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mr. Rivas, I, as I am less poet and more pragmatic, will enter directly into the non-law proposition, because this is indeed the third time in a little more than a year we bring to this chamber the situation of the Betanzos Easter Park. And I sincerely thank the Galician Nationalist Block for its initiative because it gives me the opportunity — for the third time too — to express the unbroken commitment of the People's Party and, in particular, of the Government of Galician Union at the moment; this commitment to the recovery, rehabilitation and protection of this unique space, the emblem of the philanthropy of the García Naveira brothers. That's why we are presenting a replacement amendment, which I hope will be accepted — at least we can trade — because we understand it's the way to work together for Easter. It's an amendment that keeps the background but changes the shape, needing some technical questions, because there is no — as you say at the first point — that emergency procedure to which it refers to your proposal. This procedure is not collected in the Galician Cultural Heritage Act or in any other autonomous or state legislation. This does not mean the deprotection of good, because — you know — from the very first moment that the file is in place for the processing of good as a BIC, it enjoys full protection, as if it had already been declared. And despite the fact that the law marks a twenty-four-month deadline for resolution of the initiation of the file, this does not mean that the deadlines have to be exhausted. That is why our proposal is to speed up the progress of the file, which has now passed the public exhibition process and is in the process of resolving the allegations that have been made. The second point of our amendment refers to the commitment that the councilman and what he was then mayor of Betanzos and other collectives who were interested in Easter — as he said — this past year. And we need to remember in this gallery those commitments: The first commitment was the maximum protection of the Pasadempo Park as BIC, an objective that is being met by launching this file since March 2018. A second commitment was technical support for the development of the rehabilitation project, agreeing that, given its complexity, it could be carried out in several phases; a technical support that follows with the hand held by the Galician Union. And a third commitment was a proper economic approach to the Galician Union and a help in looking for other sources of funding that would allow for its full recovery. In this sense, it should be noted that the Easter season is included in the program of recovery of the BICs of the paths of Santiago which, as the counselor said this morning, corresponds to a long list which the president of the board and the councillor himself presented to the Minister of Culture and Sport of the Government of Spain on October 24. I therefore believe that the Union is taking serious and solid steps within the scope of its competences and in line with the commitments it has made. In our opinion, it is up to him to advance to the Town Hall of Betanzos, because we cannot see that the Pasatempo Park is of municipal ownership, so conservation and maintenance actions, according to Galician Cultural Heritage Act, are the responsibility of his owner. In fact, as you also remembered a few moments ago, the Town Hall announced, more than a year ago, that it was going to bid for the drafting of the technical project, which was worth one hundred and ninety thousand euros — those two hundred thousand euros that you were saying — but of that technical project, so far, we know nothing. And really, the basis of any intervention is the project; without project there is no recovery possible. In addition, you also commented that, indeed, there is a compromise on the part of the Half a Million Euro MP to contribute to the implementation of that project. But it's not worth achieving budgetary commitments if we really don't have the project in our hands, because the project reflects not only the actions that must be done, but also its cost. Therefore, talking about specific money for your recovery can be much or little, depending on the ambition of the project being carried out. In short, we're not going to look back, we're not going to look for or point to blame for the unfortunate situation of Easter or for the deterioration that suffers day by day, without maintenance or conservation. We want to be positive and, as I said at the outset, our amendment goes along the path of cooperation and institutional collaboration. I hope the Galician Nationalist Bloc will accept our amendment and I also hope that the rest of the parliamentary groups will support this proposal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs. Antonio. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Burgo López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon — and suction cups, so you're listening — to all of you, gentlemen. Mrs. Antonio is right. It's not the first time we've brought here this problem from the Easter Park. A singular monument in Galicia — unique in Galicia and surely unique throughout Spain — which, as the BNG spokesman also said, refers to this intangible heritage of behavior, of the psychology of this social group, such as the Indians, who wanted, when returning to their homeland, to improve the conditions of citizenship of their people, and wanted to improve it in every respect. Thus, the García Naveira brothers also did in Betanzos schools, a laundry room and an asylum, but, in addition, they took that step, which they had never taken for others, of creating this encyclopedia park, this valuable didactic park. Where Mrs. Antón is no longer so right, there have been agreements around the problems of the Easter Park. Because at all times the People's Party here — and the Union, in the Government — refused to enter the plan for the recovery of the Easter season. I don't say so, it was reflected in all the papers: the board refused to support the rehabilitation of the Easter plan. [[Mr. Burgo López shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Meanwhile, the Coruña deputy offered, and he already gave, already signed the six hundred thousand euro agreement, and the Town Hall provides one hundred and fifty thousand, which for a municipality is a lot of money. Mrs Antón has just said — and the counselor said it this morning; for lack of time I could not answer this — that the owners and owners of the estate have responsibility for maintenance and rehabilitation. Yes, just like the Catholic Church; the Catholic Church also owns its heritage. It's not just the Town Councils, it's not just the Deputies, it's not just a lord; the Church owns, and I've never heard it say that the Church also had the responsibility to rehabilitate its heritage. Never. [[Applause]] I mean, here always, for the church, there was no kind of problem. What do we need? A monastery? A monastery. The cathedral? The cathedral. So that what happens next: that the cathedrals — less Lugo — will cover for entry after being rehabilitated with public money, which we will continue to bring to this parliament, because it seems to us not right. But what's not right is that you ask others what they don't do with the Catholic Church. So now you have to put and fix the whole Town Hall; you're responsible for everything. Oh, but when there's a problem in a cathedral cover, it's in charge of Junta. Look where you are! You took a whole year — a whole year! — to begin the BIC file of the Pastempo park. It was sent in March 2017 and, after multiple protests, it started a year later, it shows how important this was. You are aware that the agreements with the Council of the Counsellor were going beyond what you say, which is a generic thing—the funds would—and so all the protagonists said: the Council of Galicia, the Council and also the popular spokesperson at Betanzos. And I read: "Culture compromises support and funds for the rehabilitation of Pasatempo Park." After saying the delegate of the Union in the province, this wasn't true. Di o Town Hall — it is in Spanish to press note — "The Board commits itself to co-financing part of the work of the Pastime until it achieves its full recovery". And he also says that "compared to the park's start-up work as well as cultural interests" will produce the Junta -- it's committed to developing -- that project needed to start rehabilitation. The same says the popular spokesperson of Betanzos: "Mr. José Angel Rodríguez celebrates the adviser's commitment" for the support and funding for the rehabilitation of the Easter season. I don't know -- and I'm done -- if you're going back, that is, if this advisor's support now is, as always, wet paper; what happens always. And we will have to wait for the Government of Madrid, which gives the necessary funds, just like the Deputy, for that plan of the BIC of the Way. But you... the board — not you personally — also has a statutory obligation for the maintenance of the entire heritage of Galicia, which — I feel, Mrs. Anton — you are not fulfilling.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u213	Thank you very much, Mrs Burgo. On the part of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña Bóveda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u214	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Of course, as Mrs. Antón well remembered, this is not the first time that it comes: in February 2017, my companion Luca Chao brought the same subject to the Committee on Culture. The wall had just been knocked down, and we visited and were there seeing the state of deterioration and abandonment of this special park. What Mrs Anton didn't remember is that, in that committee, the three opposition groups voted in favour. It's more — I have it here, because I stopped looking at it, with amendments from the Block and from the PSdEG. You didn't make any amends, you just voted against it. Then, congruence, please, Mrs. Antonio. When you say there's no legislation, I would ask you to release -- for I'm sure you've read them -- Article 3 and Article 16 of the Galician Heritage Act. Then you'll see if there's enough support for the board to assume what's required, which is 45%. Forty-five per cent put it in the Chamber and 10 per cent in the Town Hall. Well, it's not just the Easter work of philanthropy. It's a lot more, it's really an artistic collector, it's a collector of memory, as Mr. Rivas, of the BNG, very well explained with that wonderful poetic threshold. But I remember very well that this is a space that is a testimony to what has been emigration and the return of many people, such as the García Naveira brothers, two brothers sons of peasants who made fortunes and who tied practically everything they had not only to create a leisure space, not just to create a space of knowledge. They were far beyond, their cultural and social work was immense. The counselor made reference this morning. So, please, if they make reference and compromise, they compromise real and actually, they're pragmatic. That commitment will be made clear when they run it and when there are budgets, because if not, what they're selling smoke again. Well, when we visited this park, we were able to check — and my companion Luca Chao thus exposed it well — that it is necessary not only to recover but to keep it, because what's worth investing money if it doesn't have a maintenance? Between 1993 and 1996, EUR 362.128 was invested, which was then a large amount. In 2010, 160,000 euros. Now, letting it fall, letting it fall, every time the cost will be higher. This space has 90,000 square meters, a magical space, an extraordinary space, filled with gardens with vegetation, with plenty of vegetation that is not known here, with tunnels, mazes, with which it went to the house of mirrors, which no longer exists, with sculptures in Carrara marble that have disappeared. I mean, apart from all this, he's squirmed. We have a space that in any country in Europe would be a unique reference space, like so many thematic spaces that are now created in a very artificial way, and we have a space in a place like Betanzos, which was, in the old kingdom, one of the capitals of Greece, and we let it deteriorate and we allude to arguments that are not supported. I, in truth, can't understand it. Therefore, we are fully in favour of this initiative going forward. Because you say that there is this collaborative spirit, because you also vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u215	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor on the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. They talk about technical support and it's okay. In the Town Hall the state of conservation of the park was detailed in a preliminary project of action signed by several architects and heritage experts in 2016, and urgent action on filtration problems etc., etc. Here are some amounts on the table by institutions that don't have the budgetary strength that the Galician Union has. We're talking about the MP, which is not half a million, it's 600,000 euros — five hundred ninety-eight thousand peaks — and the Town Hall, which has a smaller budget of 200,000. There's no need for the Union to compromise. So we on the amendment would accept the first point, which — yes, the culprit I am — is not very concrete. I mean, we talked about the urgent statement, we wanted to talk about it. But at the second point it's wetting, that is, the second thing we think must be much more concrete and talk about the budget approaches that are missing when the study is done. You're trying to do what you're missing, adding that 600,000 euros plus the 200,000 euros of the Town Hall — and something else that can be restored there — and that the board is leaving. We are very pleased to make a transaction and to vote together on this LNP, and, of course, thank the Socialist Group and the Marea for supporting this initiative. We really don't think they're worth an apology; that's to say, it's no use claiming responsibilities to circumvent themselves. I mean, here the Government of Galicia has a clear responsibility and it has to get wet. And we're asking him to leave. We have BIC protection, but let's make it visible, decentrate it. And, above all, we've eliminated the problems and threats that about the weight. That is, the threats of the gateway, the threats of filtrations, the threats of the state of abandonment in which it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the movement of workers from third countries to third countries
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u218	This motion for a non-law was tabled by two amendments, one from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and one from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u219	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u220	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I want to greet, first of all, the workers and union representatives who accompany us today from the rostrum, but we also have to point out that we would like a lot more here with us today. We think it's unfair that they can't be with us, because other workers have been expelled from the full for defending their jobs. We believe that this shows that this Parliament is too distant from the reality that our country lives. We believe that the most important thing is that this Parliament is open and listen to the demands that are outside. That's why we have to emphasize that it seems very unfair to us that they can't come with us today. Our first words must be of recognition and gratitude to all workers from various sectors who have been mobilized for a long time to defend their labor rights throughout our country. Today we are talking about a sector, of products developed from the sea, a strategic sector for Galicia, which is heavily feminized and in which, unfortunately, as in many other sectors, workers see them gradually losing and worsening working conditions. But the worst thing is, the sector we're talking about today isn't an alien case, it's not an isolated case, it's not an exception. Unfortunately, this is the situation that the labour market has already described in Galicia. Precautionary and exploitation is not an isolated case, it is too defining the labour market. As it seemed foreseeable two weeks ago, when we asked the Employment Counsellor, negotiations were still blocked. Despite the announcement that we knew the day before this question, which seemed or could indicate that the employer could change his attitude, the truth is that time has passed and we see that this change of attitude did not occur, but quite the opposite. In the last few weeks, unfortunately, it's still the worst and they've only been straining the situation further. We mean that the demands of these workers are very basic, very simple. It's not up to fairness, because all they're asking is to have a salary of 1,000 euros a month, they're just asking to be able to reconcile work with personal and family life, and not to have exhausting working days, with conditions that end up having serious repercussions on the mental and physical health of these women. Lumbalgia, headaches, anxiety, joint problems and all this series of problems have reasons and there are many issues that can be improved to reduce these risks. We also want to take advantage of this intervention to condemn the police action that took place on the October 31 strike day at the gates of Cabomar, in Marín. For us it is totally unacceptable that in a strike that was developing in a completely peaceful manner, without any kind of violence on the part of the pickets, there had been such an exaggerated police explosion, so disproportionate, that it ended with aggression to several workers. It is unacceptable that workers who were concentrating peacefully, who were defending their rights, were transferred to the hospital in ambulances. That's the way it was, the videos are all in our heads. Yes, it was, you know perfectly well that it was, and this is not a dialogue. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not saying it, there's graphic evidence and there's medical parts of workers' assaults. [[Murmurs.]] And it's unacceptable. In fact — I suppose not, seeing these reactions — we would like all parliamentary groups to take advantage of this debate in order to take a position on this disproportionate action. And the coercion was these, this fully disproportionate police release, were the threats of dismissal on the part of businessmen. But despite all this, the strike in all the calls was a historic success, an unprecedented success, and the effort and work of all the workers must be recognized. The workers stopped in Cabomar, in Fandicosta, in GPS, in Mascato. They stopped massively and with a very simple request. The only one they were asking for these... [[Murmurs.]] [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo interrupts his speech.]] Then they have speaking shifts and they can come to explain their opinion. The only thing we're saying is that the strike of October 31st, which had also a few days before, was a historic success and that, in addition, the only request is to unlock the negotiation of the collective agreement to end the precarious work. It's a requirement that, as we mentioned two weeks ago, we share. We believe that we must end temporality. Timeliness cannot be a constant in employment and in the labour market. And in addition, we're talking about that, in the field of what we're talking about today, subcontracting through temporary work companies and multiservice companies is so massive that too many times the recruitment rate of this type is greater than the staff's own stable staff. We think this is unacceptable. And the only reason for this is getting laid off, cutting wages and cutting workers' rights. We are also talking about it being one of the worst food conventions. Many of the workers don't even charge 800 euros a month. But we're talking about low wages with very hard working conditions, very long working days, with humidity, cold, and no more, for example, of cooling. Totally assumed demands, which are fully understandable to anyone. They're such absurd realities, such unacceptable realities, like they're not paid for the 15 minutes of the sandwich. We believe that with 800 euros you can't reach the end of the month, with 800 euros you can't pay rent or mortgage, you can't pay the food, you can't pay the bills. The only thing they're asking for is a salary of 1,000 euros a month, 1,000 euros a month. Not so long ago we talked -- or the media -- about the fact that the milleurists were a very worrying reality. Now the situation is so worrying that 800 euros a month is the reality, and even less, of too many workers. But, in addition, another requirement is to be able to reconcile. Besides, the People's Group here likes to talk about equality. We have a Greek plan for reconciliation and co-responsibility. What does this later translate into in the lives of specific women? Conciliation should be a right, never a privilege, to be able to care for. They're asking to be able to take their children to the pediatrician, they're not asking for any madness, they're not asking for anything that can't be assumed. Then let's not talk about co-responsibility, let's not talk so much about reconciling when then we have workers in companies subsidized with public money under conditions like these. Fifteen days ago we asked the board which side she would be on, whether she would be on the side of the workers or on the side of the employer if the negotiations were broken. Today we are at the same starting point as when the conflict started. And we bring this initiative because we believe the government has to take responsibility, the government has to listen to workers, listen to union representatives, and take sides. It can't be that in the face of such a situation it continues to be a profile. It can't be for a number of reasons. One is because this agreement, despite being a state agreement, knows that most of the workers are in Galicia; but, in addition, it is, as I said, a employer who receives a lot of public subsidies. And we don't want to pay with public money, we don't want to pay among all the companies that then exploit and give conditions of misery. We don't want to subsidize the exploitation of many workers. [[Applause]] We think there's time, because there's a date in the calendar: November 15th, an indefinite strike date. We hope that the Galician Union will really take action, that the employer will hear once and for all. As I said, claims are totally fair. We're talking about a basic issue, we're not talking about equality and feminism so much if we then allow so many women in our country to live with this situation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u222	Good afternoon. I also want to begin by greeting the workers and union representatives who are accompanying us today from the rostrum. And I also want to start by condemning the disproportionate attitude of employers and law enforcement, which in the face of the demands of workers, who only defend a decent work agreement, opt for repression rather than dialogue. Of course, it seems to us that it is not the way or much less. When some workers in such tough situations as they are decide to get to a strike situation, they can't go on anymore. And in front of that, you should choose to speak and not to get to situations of force. And the BNG has already been in solidarity with them the other day in the committee, and today we do it here at the parliamentary headquarters. And today we're debating an initiative that is what the Galician board demands is that it measures itself, but not from fairness, but it measures itself to stand aside for a time by the working class. We are talking about the craft sector of sea products. We're talking about a sector that, although it's a state-wide agreement, doesn't make any sense that it's a state-wide agreement, because 80 percent of companies are in Galicia. Obviously, most of the workers are in Galicia, and the normal thing would have been a Greek convention. But we're talking about an agreement that mostly affects women. We're talking about an agreement in a sector that's good for you. And, for example, we just had the Congemar fair done by the employer, where this year they declared that the benefits were an eleven percent more than the year 2017, with which it's a good sector. And in addition, it's good for a very important part of the huge grants received from public money, an important part of them put in the board of Galicia. So it's a sector where the employer's good, and it turns out that the workers don't do well. The Galician Union must be involved in making this money — which if it injects them with public money — not only for improvements to employers and improvements to businesses, but also for improvements to the working and wage conditions of workers. A highly feminized sector: 80 percent. [[Applause]] And one of the characteristics of these companies is that they need a lot of labor. And a very important part of these companies have between one hundred and fifty workers. Since 2015, the agreement has not been negotiated; it is one of the most precarious conventions in the entire food sector. And since the beginning of 2018 they've been trying to negotiate an agreement. And what do you ask? Well, you're improving those working and wage conditions. Most of the groups in the lowest category are below the minimum wage, eight hundred euros, and then they ask for wage improvements. Because we're talking about really very hard working conditions, because they work with temperatures from 0 to 14 degrees, i.e. cold and wet. So, wage improvements, which are recognized as a plus working in those working conditions. The normal thing is, when they're conditions where men work, if they're recognized, and when they're women, they're not recognized in most cases. We've been here the other day talking about cleaning issues, which when it affects men if they're recognized. They have a lot of trouble conciliating and long days. They ask for licenses, that when they have to take their daughters or daughters to the pediatrician, indeed, that they don't mind, that it's a working day; that when they have to go to visit a family member who is hospitalized or who is dead, because that's recognized as a working day; that the fifteen minutes of breakfast is a working day and not as now that they have to work seven more days a year because they're discounted from the working day. These are normal demands in a normal country, should they be claiming them, or are they claims that seem more like a situation of slavery that they're claiming to be improving when they have to be more than recognized? They are claiming that attempts to introduce instruments of precariousness, such as TTEs, false self-government or multi-service companies, which are diminished. There are companies in which twenty-five percent of staff hired are already in each department. They ask this to stop being like this or to be downgraded. That is why we are going to support this initiative which is being presented today by En Marea. We present to you an amendment, which is that the Galician Board "makes use of the many public aids that the employer receives, Congemar, to demand decent working conditions, both in wages and in hours, as well as in conciliation measures." And, secondly, "Let social clauses be established in public aid, which oblige companies to benefit from decent working conditions and respect the right to collective bargaining." Of course, we ask the Board to do this, but not since fairness...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u223	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u224	...but he does it from a position that the weaker part is the workers, and that it involves negotiating a collective agreement where the workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u225	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u226	...for once they were benefited.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u227	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u228	It's over, Mr. President. We're talking about justice and redistribution. The benefits may not always go to the employer and to the improvements and results account of the employer, but the benefits and improvements that are achieved at the expense of the workers' back for once also have to go to improve their working conditions and wages. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u229	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u230	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we also greet workers and workers and trade union representatives in the area of the manufacture of marine products, and we have sent them many strikes to continue in the struggle for their labour and wage rights. On the other hand, from the Socialist Group we also support respect for the right to strike and not reprisals. As has already been said by the spokespersons that preceded me, the craft sector of the sea has very specific socio-working characteristics and, of course, very vulnerable in the context of unbalanced economic recovery in which the economy as a whole is found. In this highly feminized sector, where around eighty-five percent of the labour force in the sector are women, and an important part with advanced ages and very varied problems like here has already been exposed, with low wages, precariousness, great labour health problems, the presence of the role of temporary workers far above the reasonable in the industrial field. In this context of labour difficulties there are serious obstacles to collective bargaining in the sea development sector. The collective agreement expired on 31 December 2015, and since then it has been applying the mode of extension until today by the principle of ultraactivity of collective agreements. But it's going to be three years since the convention expired, almost three years extending and applying the ultraactivity of the conventions. And it must be borne in mind that the Supreme Court recently handed down a ruling to unify doctrine which argues that the ultraactivity of the conventions expires each year. According to the High Court, the rule of ultraactivity is designed to provisionally retain the clauses of the previous convention until a new convention is negotiated, but it cannot cover any normative voids arising from the conclusion of the conventions whose validity has ended, or to perpetuate forever. The Supreme Court points out that this deadline — or of the year — is reached without signing a new agreement to the previous agreement no longer takes effect and a higher-level agreement will be applied if the agreement has been reached. And, here, what would happen since there's no collective agreement in the upper domain? What would apply?, only the Staff Regulations of Workers? And what salary would it be guaranteed like this? For this reason, because of this risk analysed, as well as because of the need for improved labour and wage conditions in this sector, we believe it is urgent that the Galician Union be urged to take forward its own initiatives or either through the Galego Labour Relations Council, which will help to overcome the difficulties in collective bargaining in the sector. Again, the negotiation process is broken, failed the first negotiating meeting after the successful day of strike, and there is on the horizon, on November 15, a possible strike. We know that the collective agreement on sea development is state, but the Galician Union must take an active role in eliminating the obstacles to collective bargaining, so that employers and trade unions feel again negotiating, but with clear negotiating intent, respecting, of course, the negotiating autonomy of social agents regulated in Article 37 of the Constitution, but also what is regulated in Article 35 of the Constitution on the right to work. And the Galician Union must take an active role, since seventy-five percent of the sector is located in Galicia, and most of its employer is based in Vigo. There seems to be no reason of a strictly economic nature to justify these labour situations — as has already been said: low wages, without the possibility of reconciling work and family life, etc. — since the image that moves the sector to the outside is an industrial productive success and even a very remarkable image. According to the unions, the formula on which the success of this sector is based is partly at the expense of the labour and wage rights of workers in the sector. We insist that the sector, which includes one of the most exporting companies in the Greek economy, has a very high growth potential, and this must be reflected in the improvement of working conditions. In addition, we are talking about a sector that is receiving, as has already been said here, numerous grants from the Galician Union. So here we are presenting an amendment to addendum, so that a protocol of action is developed that applies to those heavily feminized sectors that oblige the beneficiaries of the granting of public aid to ensure proper working conditions and that it facilitates the reconciliation of working and family life. Yesterday took place the first working day at the I International Conference of Women and Fisheries. And a statement was made for equal opportunities in the fisheries and aquaculture sector, stating that, among other measures, "the incorporation of gender perspectives into sectoral strategic policies, which should improve the working conditions of women in the sector, combating the precariousization of women's work, ensuring social protection and the safety of workers in the sector, as well as professional dignity for decent work," and it is also recommended to increase training and access to women's training. And in this sense goes to our second amendment, which we also put forward to this proposal, "to develop a specific plan to support the training of workers in the craft sector of the sea." But, as the voicer of En Marea said, this is not an isolated case, this is a demonstration of what has also been denounced by the Socialist Group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u231	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u232	...—end, President—and trade union organisations, and also as it is collected in the Economic and Social Memory of the ESC of Galicia: we have a precarious job, we have low working conditions. And that's why we demand that it be measured in this labour conflict so that better working conditions can be achieved for workers and workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u233	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u234	...of the craft sector of the sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u235	Thank you. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u236	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Good afternoon to union representatives and workers, with whom we had the opportunity to meet this People's Parliamentary Group a few days ago; representatives and workers who showed us their demands. So I'm going to talk here about several points that need to be taken into account and that are important when talking about this collective agreement: At first and at first, I want to talk about sensitivity, because we in this group are equally aware of this collective and these workers than the other groups that form this parliamentary arch. And we believe that the collective agreement we're talking about is very important, it's very important because it affects 13 000 jobs directly here, in addition to Galicia; it's very important, in southern Galicia too. We consider it essential to safeguard their rights and to ensure that their working conditions are the most appropriate, as we have previously spoken here, to be realistic, to be adapted to this moment and to this social context in which competition is fierce. And the truth is, we're at a time when that convention needs to be reviewed. So the second point I want to talk about is dialogue. The Councillor from Galicia the other day in a question and we from the Popular Parliamentary Group appeal to the importance of dialogue. And, Mrs. Prado, don't accuse or speak of repression, because this is not the case. This Government of Galicia does not change the dialogue for repression. I think it's a very strong word for you to say in Parliament. And as the counselor has already said in a question which has also been asked by the same Mrs de En Marea who is presenting this GNP today, the Autonomic Administration calls for dialogue as a better formula for understanding between the parties and maintaining economic activity in this industry, even improving it; because for this we in this parliamentary group also want to improve working conditions. I also wanted to speak on a third point in the field of competence. You also know that we are talking about a collective state-wide agreement, so mediation also corresponds to the Interconfederal Service of Mediation and Arbitration, a foundation under the supervision of the Ministry of Labour. So I also want to pretend and appeal to the First Fisheries Conference and the Women's Conference, which is being held in Santiago, where the President of the Union and the Minister Planas spoke of sensitivity to the woman and the importance of improving working conditions. So that dialogue, that support by the administrations so that employers and workers can agree is important. And if it is the Ministry of Labour who has the guardianship, it does not mean — as I say — that this parliamentary group or this government are looking elsewhere. And Together, she works to collaborate in the search for a solution for the sector, defending jobs. The other groups have also spoken here that it is important through the mediation of the Galician Council of Labour Relations with the tools it owns, and that's important. Fourthly, I want to talk about the Constitution, which has also been discussed here in article 37 of the Constitution, because this board can mediate and can incite and promote dialogue but it cannot impose. As you know, we must respect Article 37, which I am going to read, and in its first point it says: "The law will guarantee the right to collective bargaining between the representatives of workers and employers, as well as the binding force of the conventions." The law is therefore the guarantor of these negotiations and the Galician Union, this parliamentary group, we have every effort to ensure that these negotiations are — I insist — better for workers and workers, especially sensitive to being a very feminine sector. That, with regard to the sector, with the mediation of the central government, must, of course, maintain stability in an industry that is strategic for Galicia. So on the fifth point I want to talk about stability and I want to talk about political revenues, because we are in Parliament and in a political debate. As much as they want to establish good and bad politicians, politicians who are on the side of the workers and businessmen, that's not going to be the case, and society knows it's not. Because our commitment is to employment in Galicia, to firm employment. So we are with the workers, of course respecting the negotiation of the collective agreement and of course also respecting the business sector, so that the sector — I insist — is stable and can grow, and still above all they can increase jobs for women, to fix population in Galicia as well. Therefore, those claims which have also made public — as I say — both the minister and the president today, we also put them on top of this debate. All Members of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group and this Union government will work on this, we are aware of that. And so -- as I say -- you try to pull out sometimes political bills. Mrs. Quinteiro began by saying that there's no need to strain the situation, I think the truth is that we have to respect negotiation; understanding is important, it's important to improve conditions. We are the first and the first ones we want to improve conditions. So we disagree at some point about this LNP. At the first point, we could support it, even though you're talking about abuse of subcontracting. The word "abuse" in a parliamentary agreement does not seem appropriate. We could put "strengthening the supervision of the contract." But if there was abuse and the law was breached, these companies wouldn't even be receiving public aid. So in that case, too, in the amendments to the Nationalist Block, we see that there is also a certain contradiction. We would therefore be willing to talk, to see if you from En Marea admit the amendments tabled by the other groups, because in the amendments from other groups there are some points that we do not think are suitable for a parliamentary agreement. What we want to emphasize and insist on is that we are sensitive, that we need to reach an agreement, that we need to improve the conditions of so many women working in this sector in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Author group of the non-legislation proposal, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u238	Thank you, President. First, thank you for the support of the Galician Nationalist Block and the PSOE. The truth is that the amendments from both groups seem to us to complete the initiative, and we will support them. But we also tend to hold hands to dialogue, and then our proposal is that we speak; we have time until tomorrow to speak to the four parliamentary groups to try to reach a transaction or, at least, to vote unanimously, because more important is the situation of workers and workers. It seems rather insulting to us to say that we've come here to be partisan. I mean, to bring the real problems of citizenship as we do all parliamentary groups, you too, like... is that this parliament is for that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If not, I don't know what this parliament is for, if it's not about discussing these issues, which are the ones that really matter. The truth is, we don't understand. Then there are some questions that we wanted to point out. It's not too hard to talk about repression in this parliament. What's very strong is that there was repression outside this parliament and that there were workers who had been demonstrating peacefully and had to be transferred to the hospital. That's really what's very strong. To denounce it here is absolutely nothing wrong, but quite the opposite. [[Applause]] Then use the argument that we're facing a state agreement again. I told you in my first speech: we are facing a state agreement that knows that a very important percentage of workers and workers are in Galicia. So it doesn't fit that argument, because they use that argument and then they say they're doing their best. It's a bit contradictory. It's a reality that's not serving what they're doing. The counselor's answer, I don't know if he's perfectly aware of what he said, because his first intervention was to talk about this sector. If they have a lot of sensitivity, use the second intervention when we were asking about a topic like this and answer with all the companies that want to close the opposition, to us about and sensitivity by the sector doesn't seem to us, eh! The truth is, when we're asking and talking about a subject, we're taking all the issues out of the collation, which was what happened 15 days ago. And then we also find it impossible to say that we need to talk about improving labour rights but being realistic in the socio-economic context. I, really, don't you think a thousand euros are realistic? Does it seem realistic or more realistic to live with less than eight hundred euros a month? No, you said conditions had to be improved, but being realistic in the socio-economic context. I ask you: does the request that trade union representatives are putting on the table — who knows everyone and is known because he's in the press — believe it's not realistic? Do you think the employer who's receiving public subsidies every year shouldn't accept a request that's asking for a small salary raise? What is not normal is the wage situation in which most workers in this sector find themselves today. Abuse of subcontracting. With the subcontracting percentages that are in these companies if you can't talk about abuse, man, I don't know when you can talk about abuse, when there's 95 percent? And then they insist all the time on it. On the one hand, you're doing everything you can... I really, on this subject, if you're so sensitized, tell your comrades and companions that they don't interrupt constantly and that they don't miss about it all the time you're talking about this subject, because a lot of sensitivity, the truth, they don't prove. Quite different from what you went out to say in this rostrum is what you were yelling all the time at your co-restaurant. I really find it insulting that when we're talking about something as important as this and a sector -- as you know -- so important and so strategic for our country, things should also be accompanied by actions. And our initiative is very simple, we think we're not asking for anything hard to do. The Galician Union has to assume its powers and we really hope that we can reach an agreement. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u239	Thank you. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-06-DSPG089.u240	Before the sitting is suspended until tomorrow, it must be reported that the request for an appeal number 36087 by Mrs Noa Presas Bergantiños has been approved by the Government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, you just reported it, you've already entered the Parliamentary Register. We'll hold until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good afternoon.
