ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Galician Parliament of 3 October 2018, so we do not proceed to its reading. She has justified her inattentiveness to Mrs Noa Presas Berganginos. We're on the agenda. Provision of promise or oath to abide and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of a new Member's autonomy in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u2	As a preliminary point, we proceed to the promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the autonomy of Galicia of the new Member, Ms Rosa Oubina Solla. By complying with Article 7.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, I shall apply for the promise or oath to abide by and abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government for the new Member. The procedure is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. I will then call on the honourable Member to answer the question posed by this presidency from his own seat. Oubina Rosa Oubina Solla, do you swear or promise to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u4	Once the promise has been made in this case, you acquire the full status of the honourable Member. Welcome to Parliament. [[Applause]] And now if we go into the only point on the agenda. Annual general policy debate. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia to inform and discuss the political situation of the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u5	Mr. President of the Galician Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, authorities present in the gallery that honor us with their presence, Welsh and Germans, almost two months after the first autonomous elections, on December 19, 1981, 3 Members and 68 Members constituted the first German Parliament, provisionally located in the Xelmirez Square and with loaned chairs. They all lived the dictatorship, and some lived in the Civil War. They would all feel the worries of an unknown autonomic model in which everything was about to be done, but they all dreamed that this was the right time for Galicia to look forward to self-governance. Since the inaugural session of the 1st Law had passed almost thirty-seven years, so many others have brought our Statute into force and forty years the Constitution. Galicia is a consolidated autonomy, with an institution that is more worthy and with its own seats, which gives an idea — even if it is anecdotal — of how much those parliamentary pioneers have achieved. I want to claim to them the Transition, which is the source and the reason we are holding today the debate about the state of autonomy in a free and democratic Spain and in a Galicia with the ability to decide about its own future, because there was a Spanish transition and there was also a Greek transition, and both of them had a happy outcome. And I want to claim General Fernando Albor as well. That today we hold this debate here, in a Galician with more self-government than ever, with more and more public benefits available to all citizens and with more challenges and goals in the future, is proof that his dream has been fulfilled, that his work has been worth it, that his life will forever be in a prominent place in our history. [[Applause]] The 37 Members and the 38 Members we are here must see how proud we are to be their successors. Of course, for me it's a pride to be in the place that once occupied General Fernández Albor. In one of the last conversations I could have with our elected president, we talked about Galicia, Europe and Spain as well. The question about whether Galicia was a place of passage for me — as so many times have been commented over the past few years — only formulated it on one occasion. And what I said to him, I'd like to repeat it now: "I always try to be a man of speech." And he simply added, "Of course, because he's Greek." In fact, there have been many speculations, but the reality is that I'm here. In the last three legislations in this House eleven changes of opposition voices have occurred and they all forecast my march — even some who curiously went to practice politics in Madrid. I'm here in Galicia, yeah. [[Applause]] Everyone we're here belongs to a party, me too. I belong to a party that represents thousands of Greeks and Greeks and millions of Spaniards. But I said, I believed and I repeat that I am mostly a Galician militant. I said in this gallery that there was no greater honor than serving Galicia, and I repeat it. I also said that, in the face of any doubt, the answer was always Galicia, and I repeat it. I am here, in Galicia, yes, for a personal, vital choice, but above all for the fulfilment of my commitment, for coherence. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, when I gave up trying to lead my party at the national level, a lot of people — especially from outside Galicia — were surprised. But I claim the policy that prejudges the general interests above the partisans or personal ambitions. I don't mean this to be admirable, but I don't think it should be rare. Because, by itself, a ruler or a government loyal to the earth is not a guarantee of success, but what guarantee could we have if his word was worthless? I understand that the events of the last few months at national level make many people think that some politicians just want to reach a determined goal at all costs, it does the same thing as and with whom, and it doesn't matter if for that we have to contradict the saying or rectify it permanently. It's not Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here because an absolute majority, an exceptional majority, of citizens elected me to drive Galicia until 2020 and I think of nothing but fulfilling that commitment. We didn't have to go against anyone, we didn't have to win for anyone, we don't have to pay anyone's bill. You can rule after losing the election and winning the vote in the House, it's true, but even if it's harder, you can also rule over the vote in the House after winning the election. [[Applause]] Both presidents are legal and legitimate, but do you know what the difference is? That I owe only to the Greeks and no one else. I'm sure that over the years, there have been successes and disagreements, but this citizenship pact is what allows Galicia to always be at the heart of our decisions. [[Applause]] And so it will continue to be in the future. Because Galicia, unlike municipalities, autonomy or the Spanish Government itself, has not stopped in nine years, not stopped. And Junta's going to follow her by sharing people's concerns and illusions. With that maximum they know that we just materialized a few days ago a government remodeling oriented precisely so that the new structure will allow us to better respond to the challenges our land has at the gates of the new decade. We're on the equator of legislation and it's time to value the fact, but, above all, to renew strikes for what remains to be done. Galicia grows, Galicia creates jobs, Galicia exports and innovates more than ever, Galicia shapes more people, Galicia better, Galicia is more inclusive, Galicia is more sustainable, Galicia is more renewable and Galicia converges. Galicia has grown in the last three years over 3%, but we propose to engage in new growth exercises. Galicia creates jobs — 55,000 new jobs in the last three years — but we still aim to reach 80,000/100,000 by 2020. Galicia exports and innovates more than ever. 2017 was the year with more exports from Galicia's history, up to 35.6 % of GDP, but we aspired to 40% in 2020. Galicia forms more people, and that's why the dropout rate in Galicia is at the lowest levels in the historical series, but we want to reduce this indicator to 13.5% by 2020. Galicia is a better way and we have already surpassed the targets set by the European strategy for this decade. The percentage of Galicians with higher education reaches 45.6% and we're on our way to further improving this indicator to 47% in three years. Galicia is more inclusive, with a poverty rate of 18.7%, which is lower than in Spain and the European average. And although the number of homes with difficulties is the lowest in the historical series, we continue to work for them to recover and for the recovery to reach all. Galicia is more sustainable, and CO2 emissions have declined significantly — 20% less than in 2005 — but we must continue to take action. Galicia is more renewable and clean energy consumption exceeds 20% set in the European 2020 Strategy, up to 40% in the last three years. We still don't get along. And Galicia converges. In 2017 we reached the highest degree of convergence with Spain — or 90% of GDP per capita — of the entire historical series. But we want more. Finally, Galicia clearly advances in nine of the ten targets that we set out in the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan, but we didn't get one hundred percent — then I'll talk carefully about what we haven't achieved yet — nor do we want to fix on them our ceiling. Our work, that of the Government and that of the opposition, is not limited to what we are talking about these days, does not end in this debate or in the coming year, nor, of course, does it reduce to this legislation. Our duty is to think beyond 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, our choice for four years doesn't mean that we should think about planning and managing just for those four years. The Galicia we dream does not end in every legislation. So, let them know that over the next year we will forward to this House a new Strategic Plan 2021-2027 which set new goals for Galicia that is coming. And I make a call for all groups, if they consider it, to be involved. Ladies and gentlemen, you can only plan for the future when the present is more or less orderly, when the immediate one does not occupy everything. That's why we might do it in Galicia, because we count on the stability needed to address it, and that's why unfortunately it's not being done in the whole of Spain. It's hard to have two more antagonistic political situations, and the difference between them is obvious. While in Galicia we are focused solely on governing, others think only of resisting. While we decide freely in Galicia, others overcome kidnapping by minorities. And while in Galicia we work for the next generation, others just try to survive the next day. It is not simply a matter of highlighting the differences between one way of understanding politics and the other, contrasting management with paralysis or pointing out differences in party issues. It's about Spain, and, as part of Spain, Galicia runs the risk that it also affects you. To strive to satisfy the demands of nationalism, to strive to satisfy the aspirations of independence, as if that were possible within the law, and to strive to comply with the orders of clear populisms which has consequences for Spain and therefore also for Galicia. The most obvious is the impossibility of counting, at the moment, with the State's general budgets for 2019 when and as it corresponds, with the weakness that this causes both inside and outside Spain. But the most dangerous consequence would be that they were finally able to adopt the formula that has been announced. It's known to all: more taxes and more debts. He's been employed in the years prior to the crisis and his effects we haven't recovered a decade later. So Spain was wrong and so Spain will go wrong again. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible for Galicia not to be affected by national uncertainty. They affect political uncertainty, affect economic uncertainty and affect social uncertainty. We are affected by political uncertainty, which is growing and worrying, which is what it means internally and also because it prevents us from confronting the world context with the desired strength. We are affected by the economic uncertainty that exists at the international level but that the context in Spain can seriously aggravate it. And it affects us the social uncertainty that all of this can bring with you when recovery is not yet full or has reached everyone. I don't hide my concern for you or the whole of the Greeks, but I'll add: we'll use all the resources that allow us to our self-government so that Galicia is protected as much as possible. [[Applause]] The easiest thing would be to stop at the national paralysis to avoid fulfilling our obligations, but the Greeks didn't choose us to make it easy. And if we're autonomous, it's not to let others decide everything for us. We are here to rule for the good of the Greeks and that is why I assure you that next year in Galicia there will be budgets, in Galicia there will be less debt and in Galicia we will lower taxes. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia will have budgets for 2019 and will have them in time and form, as in the last nine years. [[Applause]] It is surprising that fulfilling such a basic obligation for any government seems extraordinary, but surely at this moment it is not a very simple task. We've been waiting for more than two months for the Central Government to give us the definitive figure on the income on the account. We will continue without knowing how the reintegration of the nearly 200 million euros of VAT settlement will materialize, whose return has personally committed me to the Minister of Fairy and which, of course, will require it. And we also perceive instability about the forecasts of the Spanish and international economy. There is a context of insecurity that complicates the elaboration of budgets, but the greatest insecurity would be to have no budgets. That's why the board of directors will approve tomorrow even the spending ceiling for the next year. And I call for this House's cooperation so that next week, within the legal deadline, as we have always done, we can also bring to this Parliament the Galician budgets for 2019. Because in Galicia if there's stability. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we tend to focus on the political consequences of not approving the accounts, as is happening at the national level. However, the main problem is not for the rulers, no; the main problem is for the governors. Galicia depends on what happens in Spain, it's inevitable. But it also depends on itself and, fortunately, it relies on the conditions necessary to be able to trace its own path, so that it can partially counteract the uncertainty and also the mistakes that are made at the national level. That's why we're not going to change our view of the need to reduce the indebtedness of the Greek people. We turned to it when the economic situation was limited, we made it with the utmost caution, as it shows that since 2009 Galicia is the autonomous community that has increased Spain's public debt. We stabilize debt when we start the recovery path in 2015 and 2016. And when economic improvement began to consolidate, we began to reduce it. In 2017, for the second time in ten years, Galicia managed to reduce its indebtedness to GDP. This year we'll do it again and our goal is to continue this path in the following years. It's a decision that puts us in a better situation than other communities. If the debt evolved in Galicia as much as the average of the rest of the autonomous communities, the Greeks would now have 3,800 million more public debt; or, in other words, every Greek today owes 2,000 euros less than the average of the rest of the Spaniards on the debt of the autonomous community where they reside. It's a profitable decision because it allows us to make very remarkable savings in interest. Today we spend 140 million less on funding than in 2014, or, what's the same, half of what we spent in 2014. And it's also a fair decision, just with the next generations, because, if we don't take them off when the economy grows, what time are we going to do it? Likewise, ladies and gentlemen, we will not change our view of the desirability of lowering taxes. The tax drop approved by Junta over the last few years has not only benefited thousands of Welsh families, it has also benefited our economy, which, as I said before, has grown by more than 3% in recent years, and has not prevented ours from being the third community with the greatest investment effort from its own budget. [[Applause]] If Galicia today grows into a community with one of the lowest income taxes for middle and low incomes, or if it grows into the community where less is renounced from inheritances, it's because we believe and prove that that's the right way. In other words, we believe that Galicia is the right way, just the opposite of what it is proposing and going through the central government. First of all, because we don't think it makes sense that fiscal policy becomes a kind of thrust needed to continue ruling. Second, because, in terms of what you're talking about, it's talkative to say that taxes will only be raised to the richest. And thirdly, because specifically in the case of rising tax to diesel the effects in Galicia can be devastating. Galicia is a user of this type of vehicle, which accounts for 85% of the fuel used in Galicia, and our geographic situation increases transport needs. In addition to Galicia's use of diesel — or 85% of all fuels consumed by the Greeks — Galicia is also a manufacturer. And the car industry is already suffering from a paralysis of sales. After eleven months of increase, this September, registrations in our community fell by 12%. In short, Galicia would be particularly penalized to confirm the increase in this tax. And above all, do you know who would suffer the most? The lowest rents. The lowest rents are, exactly, those that couldn't cost a change of car. That's why I clearly say that Galicia does not want diesel. So, of course not. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to the criteria we are seeing at national level, here we are following the path we have marked since the year 2009: lower taxes with the intensity that allows every moment. Certainly, while the recession was extended, we approved several selective reductions in different areas and for certain groups. As a matter of priority, always favouring lower incomes. When the start of the recovery was albiscized, we sank even deeper on that path with discounts for families with children, entrepreneurs or renewable energies. At the end of the past legislation we were able to approve the biggest tax reduction in our history, in the IRP plot for middle and low incomes, eliminating successions to practice all of the Greeks and pushing the zero tax plan in rural. In this year 2018 the Greeks benefited from new tax deductions for investments in historical centres or industrial soil. The summary of all of this is that the social tax benefits implemented and maintained by the Union over the last nine years have left more than 1,100 million euros of savings in the pockets of the Greek families, and will be more. In the budget debate, which we will open in the next few hours, we will implement the scope of fiscal policy for this exercise, but I already advance them that we will keep the tax benefits that are in force and that we are designing new tax reductions. One more year we will ensure that taxes will be paid less and less in Galicia. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are a stable government that has clear resources to meet priorities; not only the immediate ones, but also, as I told you earlier, the ones that call us beyond 2020. Because of its dimension and complexity, one of the most important things we have is the organization of Jacob 2021. An appointment that is historic for itself, but the challenge that calls us all goes beyond the event: it's Galicia of the Xacobeo 21, Galicia of the new decade, Galicia of the generations to come, Galicia that we are here must prepare for those who come after. I suggest that in 2021 we celebrate the best Xacobeo in our history. I propose that you expand your gaze and an even greater collective ambition. I propose that the Galician Xacobeo 21 be indisputably the best Galician in our history: a Galician, first of all, that you want more of yourself; a Galician with more well-being, that you take more care of yourself; an ambitious Galician, that you don't have a roof; and a Galician, fourthly, proud, open doors to Spain and the world. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, no one should doubt the love that every Welshman feels on his land. It's true that there are ideologies that do, but this government doesn't share meat; we all want Galicia. But love must not only feel it, it must be proclaimed, and it must also prove it, and, unfortunately, all the wealth that Galicia possesses has not always respected. When we talk about protecting the environment, it would be unfair for citizens to say that we started from scratch, because Galicia was developing in a chaotic way in some areas that was behind us a long time ago. There's a collective consciousness that's getting stronger, but we still have to keep strengthening. Especially intense are the steps we have already taken in the area of land management and protection: The first guidelines or the First Coastal Plan, the new Land Law and the single regulation that develops it, the guide of colors and materials to fight against the Fascism or the Welsh Strategy for the Landscape are instruments with sufficient authority to illustrate how much we are progressing. Also, if in 2009 only 33 municipalities had a general municipal management plan, in 2020 we will provide 100 percent of the municipalities with the means to provide legal security to citizens and businesses. Not in vain, today there are already 97 municipalities with an adapted Municipal Management General Plan. In 167 the autonomous basic plan, approved this year, is already applicable to complete indeterminations and urban lagoons in municipalities; and of the 49 remaining, all less than 5,000 inhabitants, 12 have already advanced the processing of their general plan and the other 37 will be welcomed to future municipal basic plans, the first since 2019. Of course the work is not finished, in fact in the coming months we will adopt other important instruments such as the new land management law, the natural heritage law and the master plan of the rivers. [[Applause]] But what we've already done allows us to say that in an iodine where there were only obsolete rules, or even absolute lack of regulation, Galicia was able to stand at the vanguard and was able to put herself, where there was previously a lack of interest, more and more involvement; and where before there was a lack of awareness, more and more responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, a well-ordered territory is the beginning, but not the end. The ultimate objective is to ensure the coexistence between the conservation of the environment and human activity. Learning from past mistakes is the best way not to repeat them. So I reiterate our commitment to order urban expansion and to always prioritize rehabilitation in front of new constructions. This has been our priority in housing and will continue to be, we will. [[Applause]] We will, of course, in the first person, continue the work begun, and become referenced, of recovery of Vigo's old helmet. But, in addition, by extending the Rexurbe Plan to new areas, which has already allowed to buy and begin to rehabilitate directly through the Galician Union both the purchase and rehabilitation of 40 homes in the historic nuclei of old Ferrol, Ourense, The Lugo or Betanzos. We will, too, accompany and clear the path of those Greeks who want to rehabilitate their homes: maintaining the tax incentives approved in 2018; simplifying requests with a single window; creating new areas of integral rehabilitation; with Galicia's first rehabilitation law, which we have advanced and that we will refer to this parliament before the end of the current session period. And also making Galicia one of the communities with less taxes since next year to buy habitual housing used. It is the cheapest community in the case of young people, large families and families with people with disabilities. [[Applause]] We're also going to keep working to make housing more efficient. Since 2009, nearly 30,000 families have received help to renew windows, roofs, facades, elevators, electrical installations, biomass boilers... and we will continue on this line because we must be more sustainable from an energy point of view. In this sense, it will be a reference to the first ecobarrio in Ourense, which we are already pushing and that before the end of 2018 will experience important advances: the technical project will be presented; the nail for transformation of the 18 buildings will be completed; the ecobarrio office will be opened as part of the outreach campaign; and in the first quarter of 2019 the first bids will begin. Besides, our intention is that this pioneering project can be started in some other Greek city before this legislation is over. The Greeks and the Greeks are increasingly aware that development cannot be in any way at any price. Concepts such as circular economy or climate change are increasingly present. It's decreasing the percentage of waste that goes directly to the dump. The drought a year ago made us more aware of the need to save water. Hundreds of Welsh people spend their biomass thanks to the help of the Union. Changes are progressive, maybe too slow, but I'm sure they don't have to go back. So all administrations continue to stimulate this kind of behavior, and since June we've been doing it. We've been working to achieve the complete sanitation of the Welsh rivers in this decade. We have made Vigo the biggest debugger made in Galicia's history. In the stream of Coruña they're only waiting to finish two pumps to culminate in their comprehensive sanitation, the lack of the central government's actions. Ferrol's creek is healthy, only pending completion of the Malata's work. In the Arousa River, three new debuggers were built and Rianxo's, and all of this is greatly improving the quality of the beaches and, above all, the seafood in the river. And Pontevedra's hive has a local sanitation plan and the forecast is that in the coming months, a new submarine emissary and the improvement of the Praceres debugger. And we're still waiting for the ground transfer to be able to do Poio's debugger. We also maintain the commitment that the Greeks have water in quantity and quality. Since 2009, we have invested more than 1,100 million euros in sanitation and supply with this double objective. And in this same period 300 supplies were made in 186 municipalities, 350 sanitation in 165 municipalities and 45 debuggers, and this is the line we are going to follow in the coming years. This effort in hydraulic matter, of unprecedented silence, shows that the Government of Galicia is involved with Galicia that it wants more of itself, but it also requires committed city halls and citizens. The role of the citizen who voluntarily decides to recycle or rationalize water consumption is essential, and to encourage it we will propose the following: in the case of waste — in addition to approving the new waste law this year — to complete the expansion of Sogama in 2019 or to put in place the Welsh Strategy for Plastics. And we're going to suggest that the Sogama canon that pay the municipalities is down by 10% for municipalities that certify greater commitment to the reduction and separation of waste, and that it is down by 10% always and when that lowers its impact entirely on the reduction of receipts paid by the neighbors. [[Applause]] And secondly, concerning the water cannon, which fix the municipalities, we will continue to advocate that municipal tax orders go ahead or lead citizens who make a more rational consumption. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you can't help but be responsible that it's not, therefore, the less you contaminate and the less you waste, you must also pay less. It can't be the same because we live in a reality we can't figure out. Climate change forces us to prepare from the individual and collective point of view. We checked it in the drought a year ago and the experts point out that circumstances like this will become more and more frequent. That is why we are going to transfer to the Central Government some needs that we find urgent, such as declaring Vigo's supply of general state interest, with the objective that we can do the necessary works with the utmost speed and with the maximum collaboration of all administrations. And also, precisely for that, a few months ago, we drew up a package of measures to respond to exceptional situations, which can be produced in water matters. We invite the Galician Municipal Federation to prepare for you together, and offer you a water pact. We have moved it that it is necessary to preserve the supply of water, with the priority of human consumption; to ensure that it is always in acceptable health conditions; and to be prepared for possible times of drought. [[Applause]] For that, first of all, we must ensure among all the proper management and exploitation of the sanitation we are going to do. And secondly, we propose to replicate a water model similar to what we have with Sogama for waste. I mean, a model that guarantees a single supply system and tariffs for all of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that there are some municipal elections nearby, but that can't serve as an excuse. I know that in these times of political polarization consensus may seem an unattainable goal. But I also know that we shouldn't get brakes before we start, because we haven't shown for so long that, if we propose, together — leaving aside the differences and working on what unites us — we can do great things. I'm referring to the great effort we have jointly made in recent months to clear the mountains more and to be better protected from forest fires. I honestly believe this 2018 can be one before and after in this matter. [[Applause]] There's been an important job for the board. In fact, of the thirty measures of prevention and action against fire included in the forest pact that I offered last year from this same forum, twenty-two are met and the figure will rise to twenty-eight this year. We also made a much bigger citizen engagement. Logically, the fire campaign hasn't finished yet — we've seen a very recent event in Mondariz — 100 percent security doesn't exist — we saw it in October last year — and we're still very vigilant, but we need to value Galicia's collective work. A work, first of all, of the prevention and extinction teams, to whom we will never thank enough for their work; but also of the owners, who have done and are doing more and more aware of their obligations; and of the administrations, who have been able to agree a procedure so that municipalities with more resources and simpler procedures can exercise their competence in this matter. Nine out of ten municipalities signed a collaboration agreement with us. In the same vein, I would like to express my thanks to the Socialist Group and the People's Parliamentary Group for their involvement in this matter. It is good for this Parliament that three-quarters of the House support one of the most important dictates of this decade: that of the Fire Commission and forestry policy. [[Applause]] In Marea and the Galego Nationalist Block I ask them not to stay behind, that their partisan interests do not prevent them from seeing the general interest. They follow the great pact in favor of the Galician mountain and rural; we all follow along this path together. Because the goal doesn't end, at least, by taking care of the great natural wealth we have, there's a second phase. A second phase with which we must involve ourselves in the coming years all the Greeks: being able to bring out yield to the mountains in a respectful and proper manner. The first mistake was to give a letter of normality to the fact that so many Greek families have land in disuse, abandoned, or even unknown. The second mistake is to think that we can't break them. We must and we can do it. They know that over the last few years we've modernized the entire rural regulatory body, and today it's much easier to mobilize land, and also much cheaper, thanks to the zero tax plan in rural areas. Faced with some theories that persist in presenting rural life as a backward and unopportunistic area, the reality is that there is an interest in investing in it and proliferating experiences of success, which can encourage many people to live in rural life and to live in rural life. I'm not referring only to the business projects that are being developed, but also to the fact that more and more Greeks understand that, for example, planting in the mountains is a pension plan, a pension plan for them and their children. Reaching this understanding between landowners and those who want to use land for their investments is undoubtedly one of the priorities we have for the coming years. Since June we're supporting several projects on this line, and in fact, at the Council tomorrow we'll approve aids for some land mobility projects that can be exemplifying and serve as a model for the future. [[Applause]] Our commitment, ladies and gentlemen, is guaranteed and I ask for your support to, in addition to resources, facilitate the continued movement of rural areas with necessary instruments. First of all, with the revision of the Galician Forest Plan, after more than two decades, to achieve a text of consensus incorporating the suggestions of the dictatorship I referred to earlier. Secondly, with greater momentum for forest development societies, which by 2020 we expect to manage 5,000 hectares already; but also for any other figure that promotes the joint sustainable and diversified management of the mountain. And thirdly, with the agileization of the processes of partial concentration, to fulfil the commitment to close by 2020 all the processes of partial concentration open today: 112,000 new concentrated hectares. In addition, with two new mechanisms agreed in this Parliament: On the one hand, the location and mobilization of disused agricultural buildings, through the immediate empowerment of the Galician Rural Development Agency, which will see their functions expanded to also become a body for the purchase and sale of agricultural land. And, on the other hand, with the creation of agroforestry polygons, a new figure that facilitates the grouping of farms when there is a viable investment project. That is, when an investor wants to carry out a project in rural areas and needs land, a forest polygon and the estates the promoter has will be added to those that are found beside him by voluntary sale or forced lease processes. Measures, all of them, which we want to speed up as much as possible and which at some point involve the adoption of a law to promote the mobilization of the productive land of Galicia, and in this sense we inform you that we are working with the forecast of sending it to this chamber in the next session. [[Applause]] Galicia to which we aspire cannot consolidate insurmountable differences, insurmountable differences between the different parts of the territory, nor insurmountable differences between individuals, regardless of where they are born, of their capacities or their heritage. There's a Galicia that takes care of herself and wants to do it more intensely. Before making a more detailed assessment of the present and the future of our state of well-being, I think it is relevant to allude to a perspective error, in which some are in danger of talking about their diagnosis. I'm referring to the valuations that are made without matching criteria; so for example, when you criticize a certain service, and you conclude that you are suffering a little less than apocalyptic situation, you never say that. That forgetfulness is common in all populist movements in Europe, one or another sign, which tend to break citizens' confidence in democracy, representative democracy and the state of well-being. Making people believe that living in the worst parts of the world is the food of frustration, and frustration is the fuel of those organizations. Let me review your arguments here with a few simple questions. At what point in his story did Galicia have a public health with more benefits, a more complete public education and more comprehensive public social benefits? At what other time were people with disabilities better cared for and the disadvantaged helped more? It's not about buying, because in all these areas there's still a lot to do, but it's about being fair with Galicia. Because it's not about recognizing the government of the moment, it's about valuing the progress of a country that is a fruit of the collective effort of its citizens. In my opinion, even complaints about the functioning of our public services are evidence of their quality and, also, the quality of Greek democracy. [[Applause]] I want that need to be maintained. I don't want us to agree, but I don't want to forget that Galicia is a territory with better public services than at any other time in its history, and also better than in many places around our European environment. [[Applause]] That is precisely why, as I have already done, I formally request to appear in the Committee on Public Health Research open in this Parliament. I know I'm not obliged, but I want to do it because, even though — as always — there is room for improvement, our health system is at a very high level, and if anyone questions it, I will, of course, defend it. [[Applause]] If I do it, gentlemen, it's not because I think I stand up for my government; I do it because it's what thousands of professionals deserve every day to provide an excellent public service. Precisely they wanted to address me, because one of the things we've been getting most comfortable in recent years is to give back to the public employees the efforts they've made during the crisis. Maila that between 2009 and 2015 we were able to be the community that has kept the volume of public employees more stable, we are aware that these have made a great effort, that we always value, and that, in addition, since we could, we also return. Ladies and gentlemen, 2018 is the third consecutive year in which the salaries of public employees grow. Each person who works for the board average to date is about 1,300 euros more than it was paid in 2015 and that's the specific improvements that we're working with trade union organizations progressively in different bodies. Today in public health, 1,544 professionals work more than in 2008, but most of us approve, with a union pact, the career. In public education, teachers have already received their first increases since this month, but up to 2021 they will reach an increase of EUR 1,200 per year, in addition to 9 per cent in their salaries. Today in public social services, more than 7% of professionals are already employed, and the conditions of the Consortium workers are gradually being equated with those of the Board staff. Today, justice is in force, an agreement that improves the conditions of 2,500 workers, but you'll also see how we continue to work for some judiciary buildings of the 21st century. And now that little is left to complete the justice infrastructure plan with the new cities of the Justice of Vigo and Pontevedra, and with the new judges of Tui, we will also renew them inside, continuing the scanning process, and with the greatest plan of equipment in the history of the Greek judges. In short, at both global and specific levels, in each of the different areas, the conditions of professionals are improving, and they continue to improve. There will be more professional, since we are developing public job offers committed — almost 15,000 public job offers markets between 2017 and 2020 — and will have more stability: we are fulfilling the stability plan signed with the unions to reduce the rate of time around 7%. And we'll continue to improve their conditions. In this sense, they are told that public employees will again receive 100% of their salaries when they are in a situation of temporary incapacity, and that we will extend to 16,500 employees of the General Administration of Unity a career system similar to that of health, that is, what value experience, knowledge and commitment to a system of promotion and remunerative degrees. [[Applause]] Once, ladies and gentlemen, that all the agreed and agreed improvements — and the ones I have just announced — are completed, they will increase the payrolls of public employees by up to 17%. Public employees translate into facts the commitment of a society that believes in the state of well-being. Galicia defended its public services, and it was not easy in times of crisis that threatened its own viability. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to do so in this context of early growth. Logically, the priority remains to be the most disadvantaged families. Although the number of citizens in extreme need has decreased by 40% in the last year, the rate of poverty in Galicia is less than half the national average, and the number of people who applied for Risga in 2017 has decreased by 10%. Despite all this, there are still too many Greeks in need of help. Ladies and gentlemen, populism often makes a mistake, in my opinion, and especially when it comes to social difficulties. In the opposition they offer solutions, apparently simple solutions to very complex problems, but governments don't usually fix any, as we see in many cities; because by managing, it is discovered that there are no magic recipes they beg. Galicia has a battery of measures to prevent evictions, and we avoid them, in fact, hundreds of families. We were pioneers in acting against energy poverty, first with the electric ticket, and then being the first community to complete the social bonus of the former Central Government. We're still one of the few communities that keep up with non-contributory pensions. And since we ruled three times the Risga resources. We're talking about it, ladies and gentlemen, because speaking and not doing it is, simply, lying to people. [[Applause]] I prefer to continue ruling with truth, so I tell the Greeks that, even if they are less, there are still difficulties to fight. That's why presenting a care plan for homeless people, agreed with the entities that work with people every day in this situation to improve coordination with them, is a commitment. That's why we will approve, before the end of the year, a decree that will allow two fundamental improvements: the first one, which can be charged more than one household risk under certain circumstances, and the second one, that the collection of part of the social income is compatible with a wage as long as it is necessary. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving forward in this direction because we know that the main challenge for people in difficulty is to become part of society. With this same objective, we also support people with disabilities. We are the community with the most inclusive education system in Spain; we have more public disability care squares, 25% more than in 2009; we have launched a call for pioneering opposition to this collective, which is already due to its second edition; and in recent months we have taken steps to speed up disability recognition processes and reduce the waiting list by the end of 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, you'll always hear me say that defending public services is supposed to better understand the needs of every moment, but it also means preparing the state of well-being for the needs of the future and leaving it in the best conditions for future generations. I was telling you earlier that there is a strategic plan goal that is not currently being recorded positive results. I would refer — as they suppose — to the demographic revitalization of our country. It's true that we're progressing in consciousness, but also that it's not enough yet. It is true that from 2009 until 2018 we have a positive migration balance, that is, from 2009 to 2018 more people have entered Galicia than they have left. But it is also true that the birth rate has not increased for more than thirty years and that the mortality rate remains higher than births — since 2009 averaged 10,300 Greeks more than they are born. It is true that there are positive results in the measures adopted at the end of the 2020 Strategy. For example, in 2017, twice as many of the Greeks were returned in 2009, we gave a hundred scholarships to young and young gales to study in Galicia, being residents and descendants of abroad, and tripled the extraordinary help to returnees. But it's also true that we have to go deep for more, so we'll soon open the full advisory and follow-up office on the returnee. [[Applause]] It is true, in fact, that we are acting in the demographic field — when it was not even considered a problem before — but for this to be translated into figures it takes time and, above all, the commitment of all institutions, both at the local and autonomous level and at the state and European level. The obvious consequence is that the only way to manage public services for today and tomorrow is to do so in the light of this reality. Thus, we are consolidating a new social and health model that can adequately address the aging of Galicia. One of the most important developments in this sense was the launching of the single social history, which will gradually ensure the necessary coordination between social services and health. We're also making intensive progress in caring for dependency. Today there are 57,600 Greek dependents with a monthly allowance four times as much as in 2009, but we don't comply. So we have already moved forward this year 2018 with the goal that we set ourselves for the entire legislation: 60,000 dependents attended. And, therefore, we will overcome this commitment and fight to be able to do our best by asking the Central Government — as we have done before with the previous governments — to finance its share, as it is bound by law. At this moment the Union invests three times as much as the Central Government is dependent on. The formula is simple: if the Union complies with its 50% — which does so widely — and the Government complies with its 50%, we will reach 100% of the dependent coverage. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government action in this area must be guided by the prevailing philosophy among our greatest: their preference is to grow older in their surroundings, so Galicia 2018 has already multiplied by eight the number of beneficiaries of the Home Help Service in 2009; but we will continue to consolidate ourselves as the community most committed by this resource. And in the same way, I'm telling you, from 2019 on, we're going to increase the help for personal caregivers or assistants between 10 and 15%. [[Applause]] However, ladies and gentlemen, in cases where it is not possible, our duty is to give them an assistance resource: today there are 65% more public squares in residences and day centres than in 2009; there are pioneering resources like the homes of the eldest, which we are funding in rural areas; we are going to fulfill our commitment to build in this legislation seven residences in each of the major cities, and in the first quarter of next year they will be auctioned. And besides, I announce to you that everyone who does not access the public network will also have a help through the expansion of the Residential Bonus, which will reach 100% of the applicants, and also on a larger scale, as it will grow by 20% for the grade 1 and grade 3 dependencies and up to 75% for grade 2 dependencies. Ageing also has a direct impact on our public health, and that's why we've spent time proposing an adaptation to the new realities that are presented to us. This month we will approve at the Council the Welsh Strategy of Chronicity — almost one in four Greeks suffers from chronic pathology — and we will adopt a new strategic home hospitalisation plan to normalize and homogenize this type of care. And the future Pharmacy Management Act will adapt the pharmacy map to current conditions. And, of course, we must continue to act in the field of prevention, and we will do so, for example, with the Act on the Use of Alcohol in Minors and Combating Child Obesity, more intensively promoting basic sport. Next year we will continue to strengthen our commitment to sports federations with a new budget increase that will be added to the 9% that we have already done in this exercise. Ladies and gentlemen, public health must adapt to the future, but I want to value your present. There may be mistakes, but for each one there are thousands of examples of success. There may be needs, but for each of them there are thousands of examples of commitment. The surgical waiting list is at least historic: the average waiting time for diagnostic tests is in 59 days — 10 days less than last year — the fastest routes for the most common cancers are running with an average waiting time of less than 5 days; the maximum time decree has already benefited in the first year more than 32,600 patients. Furthermore, the Greeks make our health system the best known in the last 16 years, according to information from the current Ministry of Health. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, citizens mostly agree that we have a public health which, like everything else in life, is better, but which is of great quality. And, of course, we're going to work to improve it and keep increasing quality levels. [[Applause]] First, by expanding the benefits, as we did when we arrived at home hospital services, improving the children's vaccination schedule or creating the adult vaccination schedule. And how are we going to do, for example, with the start-up of the early detention program for cervix uterine cancer or the creation of a register for rare diseases? Second, completing technological renewal. In these years, teams from all Galician hospitals have been upgraded and hybrid point surgeons have been installed in Vigo and Coruña. We will continue to improve equipment with high technology and advance in health innovation. And thirdly, progressing in the modernization of health centres. In Vigo we have built one of the best public hospitals in Spain and we will continue to provide it with advanced health technology. In Lugo we equipped and completed the new public hospital and improved your service portfolio. In Pontevedra we are working on the basic project for the execution of the future Gran Montecelo and in 2019 we will bid the first phase of the works. At Ferrol's public hospital, the basic project of execution was drafted and, before the end of the year, the construction of the new hospital building will be proposed. At the public hospital in Salnés, we completed the extension of the hospital at 26% of its surface. At Ourense's public hospital we built a new hospital building — which is working — and we're going to reform the old one. In the public hospital in Verín, the portfolio of services was expanded and external consultations renewed. At the public hospital in Valdeorras they will have before the end of the year a remodeling project of new equipment. At the public hospital of the Navy in question for weeks will end the first extension of the hospital and we will then continue with the current building. At the public hospital in Monforte we introduced the Oncology Service and, before the end of the year, your remodeling project will be contracted. Santiago's public hospital is in the vanguard in research and we're planning its future reorganization and expansion. In the public hospital in Barbados, we broadened the external consultations, opened the analysis lab, and we're going to start the emergency expansion. A new haemodialysis room has been installed at the Cee public hospital and the surgeons have been upgraded. And in the Coruña public hospital 100% of the surgical block has been renewed and the emergencies have doubled, but we are aware that we must continue. So before the legislation is over, we will present the new public hospital in the Coruña, completely renovated the current facilities and with a 50% expansion of its current surface, either on border land or in a new location, for which we hope to count on the collaboration of the Town Hall. [[Applause]] This boost to the renewal of health infrastructures is not limited to public hospitals, but begins with the entry door to the health system: primary care. Since 2009 we have invested 66 million euros in 52 new or renewed health centers, and in the coming years we are going to reform 2 new health centers and build another 17 new ones, including a pointer center in the neighborhood of Residence in Lugo. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are committed to reforming this area of Lugo and equiping it with new services with a job office, an innovation centre, a biomass plant and we hope a police station as well. And we have a commitment that includes a health care center, a senior residence and the first comprehensive health center in Galicia, and we will also fulfill it. Ladies and gentlemen, I was telling you before a responsible government can't forget the demographic dimension when planning public services for the future. We do it with a double direction: demanding the resources that correspond to us and making the greatest effort to make Galicia the best possible place to be born, where to grow up and where to live. With regard to the first pillar, I would like to reiterate the requirement that the model of self-financing for public services is a fair model. Even I have transferred myself to the current President of the Government that reform of the system is a priority issue, which must be addressed. We cannot help but guard against parliamentary weakness; we do not accept the situation in Catalonia as an excuse because all other communities want to open this debate. There's no point in making an excuse that there's no time, because we're not starting from scratch. Six autonomous communities — three governed by the Socialist Party and three governed by the People's Party, which represent more than 50% of the total territory of Spain and 21% of the population — we agree. And besides, we already have a common position, and there are more communities that want to join. That is why I am telling you that I will request the convening of the Conference of Presidents so that the representatives of the State in the 17 autonomous communities can address an essential debate to continue to provide high-quality public services. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, others may agree to being in government, even if they are not ruling. Not me, I will not abdicate my responsibilities as president of the board. He told them that one of these responsibilities is that Galicia is capable and is once and for all a better place to live. In recent years we have made more progress in this direction than before. Much remains to be done, but there are many Greek families who have received improvements in the field of conciliation. Since 2009, we have doubled the number of children's school squares, which in this course are close to 24,400; we have brought reconciliation to the rural municipalities, to the children's homes, and to the working places of the families, to the kindergartens in the industrial polygons; we have launched important economic support for families with children: bonus on daycare rates, the Welcome Card or the Council Bono. So that next decade Galicia will be a better place to form a family, we'll continue to work for reconciliation, and we'll do it by strengthening the aid and expanding the Bono Care. And we will also do so with normative instruments, since in 2019 Galicia will be the first community in Europe to have a law of demographic impulse. We agreed on the diagnosis of reality, and what I suggest is that we also agree on measurements and the roadmap to try to give you answers. [[Applause]] It's obvious that no one will have children because the Government tells him, but what we can, what we do, and what we do and we do is bring the maximum facilities to women and men who make this important decision. In these years, the self-government has tried to put itself at the forefront of measures to make life easier for mothers and parents with children. More than 11,000 public employees today benefit from hourly flexibility and more than 200 have embraced teleworking. But only with the public sector is not enough, we need to keep working with the private sector, so that companies are aware that returning to the demographic situation is a matter for everyone. We are at your disposal to collaborate on the measures they need in this regard, as we have demonstrated by pushing the first daycare centres into industrial polygons or by launching the Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan, which is a pioneer in autonomous Spain and which we are going to take to the municipal field throughout 2019. But we must move forward further. That's why we're going to start a awareness campaign for companies to adopt more rational and flexible schedules that allow the Greek families to have more time to spend together. We are attentive to the debate on time zone, but in Galicia we will open the political debate not only, but also social debate on uses, habits, schedules, on the need for and the necessary reconciliation of personal, work and family life. [[Applause]] The Galicia of the next decade must be a more egalitarian land, where the birth of a child will not be a conditioner for everyone to choose their path with complete freedom. Galicia in the next decade must also be a land of opportunity, where all the Galicians and Greeks know that with effort, commitment and perseverance, regardless of their starting point, they can reach wherever they want. To build a Galicia that doesn't put on a roof, it's essential to start with the foundations, that is, to continue to strengthen our education system. All the data and indicators indicate that our community is in the right direction, not only because of the minimal history of school dropout, but also because the PISA Report places us above the Spanish average in all the indicators and also outperforming the average of the developed countries in most of them. Public education requires long-term work, protected from cluttering and sudden changes. So since 2009, our education system has been following a clear path, in which we will continue to move forward over the next few years. We will advance in equity, we will advance in digital education, we will advance in multilingual education, we will advance in training in scientific, technological and mathematical competences. We'll move forward in fairness of the education system, so that the resources of the student's family do not condition or condition his academic career as little as possible. According to the latest PISA report, Galicia has Spain's most equitable educational system. But we don't comply. We will continue with the help of buying textbooks and materials, with reduced prices for dining rooms and being the community with the largest school transportation network in Spain. We're going to advance in digital education, which in this course is already 18,000 students, from 5th primary to 2nd ESO. That's why we've just authorized the purchase of 30,000 laptops for students with more content and better technical support. [[Applause]] We will advance in plurilingual education, which we have just extended primary education, to bachelor's degree and to vocational training. If only 13,000 students were given multilingual education in 2009, today it's almost one hundred and ten thousand, a third of the total. If in 2009 they worked in Galicia 67 native auxiliaries of conversation, in 2018 it multiplied by ten and in 2020 the goal is to reach a thousand native auxiliaries of conversation that work in public education. And we will also advance in training in scientific, technological and mathematical skills, which all experts point out is fundamental to the present world. In this course, for the first time, fifteen institutes offer the bachelor's degree of excellence in science and technology, and our commitment is to continue in the next exercises, and in fact, the next course is to incorporate five new institutes, to add twenty, which guarantee a progressive extension of quality in this project. All of these middle-school activities have a clear objective: to open to students every door to decide for themselves what their future is. One of the alternatives that Galicia has put forward in recent years is vocational training, becoming a reference, and the number of registered in this year — fifty-one thousand boys and girls — is 47% more than in 2008-2009. If more and more students opt for vocational training, it's because it's proven to be a practical, diverse, high-quality education with many professional outputs. Seventy-seven percent of the students who take a vocational training course later find a stable job, a percentage that rises to 90% for one of the most trusted modalities: dual vocational training. That's why this year the offer increases by 60%, up to forty-six cycles of dual FP. In addition, at the beginning of the next decade, full performance will be running one of the most ambitious initiatives in vocational training: the creation of the Vigo Vocational Training Campus. In this same year, the sixteen centres that provide vocational training in this area will begin to work online, and in 2020 the Neural Center of the campus, the so-called FP Hub, will enter into operation. [[Applause]] Adding vocational training, together with education and universities, to the name of the new Council is an explicit statement of intentions. Giving vocational training the greatest impetus in our history goes from the hand of another great alternative to continue studies: university. This government has very clear the university education it wants to offer to the Greeks tomorrow. We want an accessible university, an advanced university for the future, a well-coordinated university, a university that promotes excellence, a university that is the heart of the Greek innovation system, a more specialized university. We want an accessible university, and that's why the fees have been frozen for nine years, and this year we've reduced those of the enabling masters, which are already the same as those of the university degree. We want a university ready for the future, and that's why we're analyzing the evolution of professional profiles. Depending on them, we will adapt the teaching offer with measures such as the launch of fourteen new university degrees by 2020, five of them already in this course. We want a well-coordinated university, and the three universities we have in Galicia have a complementary offer. We're going along the right path, as evidenced by the launch of the first degree of interuniversity, and we'll continue to work on initiatives such as the construction of a great link between the Galician university system and the Fontan building. We want a university that promotes excellence. In this line, one of the new features of this course is the launch of the Arenal Design scholarships, which will award the three best records of the first three courses of each grade. We want a university that is the heart of the Greek innovation system. talent already has, resources will continue to increase and incentives to achieve it. One of them is a pioneering measure: a new pay supplement for teachers who transfer knowledge to the Galician society. And we want a specialized university. Fruit of this bet, unique in the Spanish university system, in addition to the Campus de Excellence Internacional, Campus Vida and Campus do Mar, we already have eight specialized campuses: Campus Water, in Ourense; Campus Terra, in Lugo; Campus Industrial, in Ferrol; Campus Crea, in Pontevedra; Vigo Tecnologico; Campus da Cidadanía, in Santiago; and Campus Innova and Campus da Sustentability, in Coruña. Our commitment is to accompany them to projects that deepen their expertise. So in 2019 we will launch a campus specialization call to co-finance investments that are necessary to meet their objectives. Knowledge cannot be confined between four walls. We're moving forward to a more open university. For this same purpose, Junta has been strengthening the aid of R+D+i, in the form of scholarships, incentives to recruit specialists, support for research groups and technological centres and creating joint research units. This road doesn't end here. So today, we are announcing two new measures to promote innovation with Greek stamps: the first, a new 2021 talent programme, which will bring together the aid for recruitment and training, of which one thousand five hundred girls and boys will benefit with great potential. And the second, an important boost to the technological and industrial pole of the aeronautical sector that is developing, as you know, in the town of Rozas. This impulse is based on two concrete measures: on the one hand, the impulse of new traffic and air safety systems, which will complete the actions that are taking place today in Indra and Babcock and will take place in the coming weeks; and on the other hand, the start of the construction of the industrial park in Rozas, where companies like these will be installed, dedicated to the development and production of unmanned aircraft. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this government is convinced that innovation must be one of the pillars on which the growth of Galicia this decade and its coming. This course also goes through investment capture, both for new companies to be installed here and for companies that already work in Galicia to expand their capacity and modernise themselves by adopting Industry 4.0 techniques. Together will support it with direct investments, but also simplifying the procedures to facilitate investment. In the last year, we made a lot of progress on this land, with the new law of business implementation and with the figure of the city council entrepreneurs, which has already hosted one out of three Greek municipalities. In 2019 we want to continue to move forward, and that is why the Budget Accompanying Act, which we are going to propose to the House, will regulate the priority business initiatives, which will be halved their processing time. The future course of the Greek economy necessarily goes through support for entrepreneurs and self-employed people, both supporting them in the first steps of their company and facilitating reconciliation, generational relief or having a new opportunity to get the flight back if the first attempt failed. Our future course also goes through training, and that's why we'll keep betting on offering courses tailored to the needs of the business fabric, and this will be the first year in which the unemployed can already choose the center and course they choose. Another of the main developments in this area will be the second opportunity programme for young people who do not study or work, so that school dropout does not close their doors to the labour market. This initiative will help young people in this situation to gain the basic skills and digital training needed to enter the labour market today. [[Applause]] Our Community, ladies and gentlemen, has never exported as much as in the last five years, and our potential has not yet shown signs of exhaustion. In fact, in the first seven months of 2018, exports from Greece grew by 10%, almost three times as much as exports from Spain grew. It is also hopeful that employment developments, which, in addition to being the best of social policies, are also the best thermometer of the social perception of the economic situation. In Galicia today there are thirty-four thousand unemployed less than in 2009, thirty-four thousand unemployed less than in 2009. Galicia has been creating jobs for more than four years today, and in September Social Security affiliates have recorded the highest annual increase since 2007, the highest annual increase since 2007, 21,628 more affiliates in the last year. [[Applause]] Today's Galicia is in full-time indefinite recruitment, while part-time temporary contracts are reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not employment figures to be satisfied, of course not, although we are on our way to meeting the Strategic Plan to bring us closer to eighty-fifty thousand new jobs by 2020. They're better than we were a few years ago and they show a positive trend, but -- I insist -- they're not enough. [[Murmurs.]] This data encourages us to insist and persist on the line we've been following in recent years. So we also hope to count on the collaboration of the unions and to start with them a new stage of social dialogue, focused on further improving the amount of employment and also the quality, including, for example, social clauses in public contracts. I'm convinced that the best way to claim quality employment is to do it together. I propose to promote that dialogue again, without prejudice, without fear and without barriers, always putting Galicia before everything. [[Applause]] Because German society, ladies and gentlemen, calls for more consensus, consensus to continue to bet on training, alongside those who create jobs and strengthen our economic structure towards the future. They're priorities that don't understand political colors. We share goals, I'm sure we can also share paths. The joint work has allowed us to revitalize sectors that have been in a critical situation, as your lordships will remember: the naval sector, the automotive sector, which, by the way, today are very hopeful moments. And the joint work I hope that will also allow us to continue revitalizing the fundamental role of the primary sectors, of those that depend upon thousands of Greek families. Today in Galicia there is more confidence in the future than in 2009. These sensations are influenced by the far-sighted sales record and billing record that we reached in 2017, by the highest production and sales figures of mexillone since 2009 and by some conservatory and frozen industries that are increasingly invoicing and exporting more and more. Whenever the sector called for the Union, it had us there; it had us there when it was about regulations and budgets, but also every time we had to claim a fair treatment for our fleet to Europe. By figures and by international projection, there are more and more people who are encouraged to work in an ups and downs sector. That's why our recent years have increased the membership of the special sea regime, 5% since 2015, and there's been a reputation in the construction of ships. The challenge we face on the horizon when we talk about the sea is to strengthen the sustainability and competitiveness of the sector. Let us not forget that fisheries, shellfish and aquaculture must offer clear prospects for the future, and that is why we work and work to bring Europe's standards into line. To be more competitive, we must continue to grow the added value of our sea products. In addition to improving ports and dock installations, it is necessary to value its highest quality and improve marketing channels. And, ladies and gentlemen, to value us outside, we must begin to value ourselves. [[Applause]] Next year, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to launch a fish and seafood consumption campaign among the younger Greeks, in addition to promoting the digitization of the ranges and online sales and boosting the future strategy plan of the frozen. There are certain parallels between the challenges facing the Greek coastal economy and those of the rural economy. In this case, the creation of the added value moves projects to transform agricultural products. We are all familiar with the major initiatives currently taking place in the sector. When we see producers with a lot of experience in milk getting together and getting stronger than ever, when we see large investments in transformation materializing, such as Inleit in the dairy sector, or when we look at the construction of Galicia's largest biomass plant, we realize that there is a future in rural areas. Producers are responding to this proliferation of transformation projects and are also modernizing themselves. So it makes it clear, for example, that in the last two years, nearly one thousand three hundred of us have been asked for help in making investments in agricultural holdings. Also, it's more and more the girls and the boys than with a university degree or FP under the arm are taking charge of an exploitation, because there comes an interesting opportunity for the future. All the new farmers and gourds have opened the door of a specific board line, which has already supported the incorporation and agricultural activity of two thousand six hundred young men and girls since 2009. We must continue to feed this region of the agri-food companies in Galicia. In this line, he will work on the new Galaga Food Quality Agency, which will ensure the quality of raw material, the technological innovation of the sector and, above all, by strengthening the training of agricultural professionals and research applied to the sector. To do so, we also need to continue to vertebrate Galicia and improve mobility for all the Greeks, living where they live. Since 2009 this government has increased the length of high-capacity routes by 66 %. As a result, today 80% of the Greeks live less than fifteen minutes on a high-performance track, and we will continue to advance, with the end of the highway of Morrazo and the connection of the San Cibrao polygon in Ourense, with the highway of the Low Ries and pushing other necessary infrastructures, such as the continuation of the Highway of the Coast of Death, the bridge in the River of Viveiro or the conversion by bus into the Lugo-Sarria Tram. And I use it to regret the accident and the death of the two people tonight. This comes from an important effort to improve the security conditions of all road infrastructures in Galicia. In addition to moving forward in the strategy of eliminating so-called black spots, I want to announce to you that in this legislation we are putting in place and redouble a plan to monitor the situation of all viaducts, blacks and passing works in the autonomous community. This legislation will also be that of the great transformation of mobility in Galicia. On the one hand, after the success of the first phase of the Public Transport Plan and starting from the lessons we learned at that time, in 2019 its second phase will be implemented. At the end of the old transport concessions I've assumed and will continue to assume an opportunity. That is why we will continue to bet on two new modalities with great potential: the shared transport between schoolchildren and travellers and demand transport, which are already starting to work successfully. The awareness-raising work to make more and better use of our public transport begins with the younger Greeks. Since 2016, girls and young people under 19 years of age have already enjoyed free transportation through the New People's Card. And our commitment is to extend the freeness of the bus to those under 19 years of age to the rest of Galicia, and especially rural. [[Applause]] In parallel to improving services, we will continue to work on improving infrastructures, especially intermodal stations. Santiago and Ourense are in works and will be the first to finish. Vigo's and Pontevedra's are going to bid before the end of this year. The Coruña one, unfortunately, is very late for the ongoing changes in the Town Hall's criteria. And we are also committed to the arrival of intermodality to Lugo, where the project is already being drafted and in processing the agreement between the three administrations involved, as well as Ferrol, where the forecast is to draft the construction project next year. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to work to have a modern transport system ready for the great milestone that will end this decade: the arrival of the high-speed train. Once the doubts that the ministry itself has sown are cleared, now what it's about is to take the words into practice. There's no time to waste, but we've got to finish. [[Applause]] Galicia deserves to be satisfied with the word given to it and that the works of the AVE end in the last quarter of 2019 and that the first tickets begin to be sold in the year 2020. I can assure you that the Union will do with this government the same as it did with the previous government: to ensure that it arrives in Galicia without further delay at the same high speed as it has been many years — decades — that it enjoys other territories in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, the AVE, so we've been fighting for decades, is much more than just the desire to reach distances or increase competitiveness. Deep down, it represents our way of being. The same reason that made us defend the buses in the 1990s, the same reason why we invested more than ever in technology so that one hundred percent of the Greeks had a long band, we kept working to get the last generation modalities. We defend communications because we are an open people. One of the most beautiful definitions of our country brings up a feeling that has always marked the different initiatives of Galicia and that I believe it also defines the vast majority of Galicia in our day. It corresponds to the Brotherhood of Speech, when they referred to our country as a cell of universality. They wanted to express that Galicia in which they dreamed was based its importance on its own being, but also on its projection. It's an amendment to the whole idea of a child and ensemble community. To vote for open Galicia, instead of a closed Galicia, has an echo that reaches us and that we have an obligation to expand and transmit. The best chance in the immediate future is Xacobeo 2021. Before I told them it's called a new turning point in our history. It was, without a doubt, when it was invented, in 1993, and also at other times, as in 2010, when I assumed a revolver at a very difficult economic time. And we want 2021 to be another before and after. Precisely, the newly created Council of Culture and Tourism will have in the organization of the Xacobeo one of its main tasks. It counts for this with the best tourist situation possible, since Galicia is increasingly a most appreciated destination. In 2017 we first exceeded the five million tourists and the 300 thousand pilgrims. They come to Galicia, they like it and they repeat it with greater intensity, as they spend more and more days, as if you're confirming with the data of 2018, by the way, the difference in the set of Spain, where it went down to the average stay. We also have very advanced lines of work defined between the Union and the tourism sector, which I want to convey to you the congratulations of all the Greeks for their efforts to make an increasingly competitive and more quality destination throughout Galicia. Not in vain is our tourism ever more international, with pilgrims from a hundred and seventy countries. Our tourism is getting more and more deseasonated, with a low and medium-seasoning season. Our tourism is increasingly recognized. Here, for example, our world heritage, a list to which we hope that they will soon be able to join the Atlantic Cites and the Sacred Ribeira, as well as the Iron of the Illustration. [[Applause]] Our tourism is increasingly specialized, and in the coming months we expect it to be even more, through the rural tourism plan and the enogastronomic plan. And, of course, ladies and gentlemen, we count on the paths of Santiago, our main cultural and tourist resource, a brand that identifies us and projects the image of Galicia all over the world. And that's why we're going to keep strengthening it. We have done a lot of work through the Santiago Roads Director Plan, which in the last three years has allowed to update most of the Compostela routes. The renewal of the cathedral, and especially of the Portico da Gloria, was a very important impulse in Compostela, just as it was the remodeling of the cathedrals in other Greek cities. We're going to develop the road BIC rehabilitation plan and we're adjusting the entrances to Santiago so they can welcome the pilgrims. And thanks to events like the Way Sound festival, thousands of people put their eyes and ears in Galicia and what's about to come. And next to that, Galicia has a diverse and dynamic cultural sector, which employs around 30,000 professionals, and will be represented in the 1st Strategy of Greek Culture, which will be presented in the coming weeks. We count on all this, but a country project, like this one, must have something else: everyone's involvement. Xacobeo 2021 has to be the best in our history, and all the Greeks have to be involved in achieving that goal. Ladies and gentlemen, when the previous Xacobeo was to be prepared between 2005 and 2009, I was in opposition; at that time no one asked us — although it was the majority group in the House, most of it was absolutely less a scan — if we had any idea, and it would have been positive because maybe it would start more in advance projects that we then took forward when I was president. [[Murmurs.]] The Xacobeo 2021 is a historic opportunity to show our culture, everything we have and we can offer, our way of being, of being, of being, of doing. Galicia is quality. We must extend it and we must understand it as what went to Barcelona the Olympic Games or the Seville Expo. It's not an exclusive question of government, it's a country, and that's why we have to design it among all of us. [[Applause]] So, ladies and gentlemen, we propose that the Xacobeo 2021 be an open project, open to all parties represented in this Parliament, and for that we propose to create a working group in which they can move their approach, open, obviously, to the central government. That is why I ask you to maintain the commitment of the former Government and to be involved in the preparation of a Xacobeo that will benefit the whole of Spain, - and so I will transfer it to the Minister of Culture at the meeting that we are going to hold this month - and of course also open to all the Greeks. And that's why we're going to launch your Jacob, a space where all the Greeks can bring their ideas to the next Holy Year, because for him to be the best Jacob must also be the most participatory. Ladies and gentlemen, the open Galicia which has inspired and continues to inspire the Jacobean spirit is our model. Because the action of a government must correspond to the country's image. There are political currents with minority representation in this Parliament that seem to feel that they are closer to other peoples than their own. I feel proud of Galicia. I don't need to take refuge in nostalgic visions or take advantage of old Welshmen, because they're all of them. [[Applause]] To give an example of actuality: Castile. Castelao is its own, Castelao is its own, Castelao is its own and Castelao is mine, lords, Castelao is its own and it is mine. Ladies and gentlemen, Castile is yours and mine and is from all the Greeks. And that's why we opened the exhibition Castelao Maxistral, so that every citizen would have it at his disposal. We are proud of all that Castelao means for all the Greeks and gales. Culture does not belong to any government, any party or ideology. What we should do with politics is not to get used but to protect and disseminate the authors and artists of Galicia, both historical and contemporary, and we will do so with the creation of Galicia's artistic legacy. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I feel proud of Galicia as it is: free and open. We are an emigrant people and we live in a globalized world. To what story and context do those who defend a closed Galicia respond? We are a peaceful people, who have always defended coexistence, against comfortable ideologies in division. No, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia must not break ties, it must have new links. Today's Greeks and yesterday's Greeks, like historical Galeguists, refuse the isolation of our land. The universal vocation of Galicia, born with the paths of Santiago, requires that in this debate on the state of autonomy, references to the national and international context should occupy space. More Europe, more Spain and more Galicia. There, ladies and gentlemen, the three vertices of the Italian model of self-government that we intend to reinforce. Each involves another. Galicia will be stronger as Spain and Europe, in the same way that a stable Spain and Galicia strengthen the European Union. The German self-government is unequivocally on the side of the formulas that want Europe to play a decisive role in the global multilateral world. As a founding country of Europeanism, Galicia does not comply with a European space that is only economic or tariff, because it believes that such a Europe, deprived of political and social cohesion, is at risk of global irrelevance. European irrelevance would, sooner or later, suppose a handicap for our own development. On the other hand, the German self-government is born of the confluence of three vectors: the historical impulse of Galeguism, the will of the Greek people and also Spanish democracy. Democratic and constitutional Spain guarantees Galician rights and territorial balances of the Spanish nation, and therefore any rebellion or secession against the constitutional state is a direct attack on the Greek Autonomy. [[Applause]] The state is all of us, the state is all of us. Galicia and the Greeks are, fortunately, a historical nationality in the state, and that state also belongs to us. In front of identities that seek antithesis, our search for synthesis. Faced with nationalisms that do not tolerate coexistence, Welshism is inclusive. That's why I think I speak in the name of most of the Greeks and of the Greeks when I say that I see with sadness, with a blush and with bitterness what's happening in Catalonia. Those who think there's a model there that you can explain to me what they're looking for? Are you looking for a Galician yellow tie? Are you looking for a Galician Defence Committees of the Republic, vandalism and violence? Are you looking for a Galician family and friends facing? Really, is that Galicia they want? Ladies and gentlemen, to me these situations do not generate any envy, but a great deal of sorrow and concern. I don't want the debate to go wrong. We are not, as some pretend, in a struggle between territories, but in a contrast between values and principles: democracy in the face of intolerance, legality in the face of arbitrariness, identities of the 21st century against other rescues of the 19th century, democratic political leaders in the face of messianism, parliaments like this, open to dialogue with all normality, against parliaments closed to prevent debate. [[Applause]] We cannot, ladies and gentlemen, accept that it will be placed at the same time as those who attack the state and defend it, as you are claiming. In that dilemma there is no supposed middle position. I have never denied or will refuse to address the specific needs of the communities. When others were in a worse situation, we supported the approval of rescue funds for them. Galicia is a people of solidarity and also a recipient. Neither did I oppose or object to the legitimate aspirations of more self-government than any autonomy. Galicia also has them, as we have shown when we ask for the logical transfer of the freeway from the Atlantic or when we proposed to activate the Joint Commission between Galicia and the Central Government. Reformist Greekism is not incompatible with Spanish democracy, but intolerant nationalisms tend to end democracy, and, of course, we give it absolutely equal to the rest of the autonomous communities. To think that one can come to some agreement with that radical posture is completely useless. And the truth is, we're suffering the result. It's time to say that independence does not attack a centralist Spain; it attacks a democratic, plural and autonomous Spain in which most Catalans want to live. In that national assembly there is Galicia, and therefore the rights of the Greeks are being similarly assaulted. It is time to say — and we say — that they cannot pay justly for sinners or meeters for defaulters, or responsible for irresponsibles. [[Applause]] We do not understand that it provokes scandals the implementation of the Constitution, not the permanent insurrection of the Generalitat or the fiscal favorisms of the Government of the nation. They don't have enough steps to go beyond the conjunctural, to compromise cohesion or perpetuate rebellious situations. No circumstantial government can negotiate what is at the heart of the state. That's why we're concerned that another component of the state organization that is the Government of the nation is an Executive bound by opaque commitments, mortgaged by agreements we don't know and depend on independence. We don't understand that a state that is of all must pay the original sin of a motion of legitimate censorship, but applauded by those who only had the common goal of overthrowing the government out of President Rajoy's polls. Once that goal has been achieved, and also the goal of reaching the Moncloa was to be as it was, the question that more and more Spaniards are being asked is, why? [[Murmurs.]] What can be built with that circumstantial majority? As you can see, very little. All we have to do is listen to the reasons for the early call of the Andalusian elections: instability. And in relation to the state of autonomy, what can be expected is nothing. In the territorial debate our questions are and will be stubborn: what is Galicia's interest? Is cohesion guaranteed? Do you confuse natural differences with privileges? Does Spain weaken or fortaleize as a shared democratic space? Is it about solving problems or generating sterile disputes? The same questions must be answered in the face of a possible reform of the Constitution. In this regard, he tends to incur in the same sin as the seekers of the philosophical stone. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no philosophical reform. I think it can be improved and, in fact, I would like to see the work of the presentation being re-enacted to assess Senate reform, a matter that should be given priority in a hypothetical amendment to the Magna Charter. But I don't consider it appropriate to embark on such a arduous process without knowing the route, the fate and the crew. I also don't like it being mixed up with the idea that the state of autonomy has failed, however much it is better and adaptable, thanks precisely to its flexibility. I wonder if it wouldn't have been a disincentive to consider the democratic system a failure, providing proof of the 23rd February coup d'état. I also wonder if it would have been wise to adapt the Constitution to the purpose of contenting the coups. It wouldn't be understood at that time, nor would it be understood now. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia reaches this point in its history with the pride of playing a collective success. Galicia, as part of Europe and Spain today, has experienced a fundamental and transversal transformation. In a very short time, the word "late" has ceased to be defining our politics, our society or our economy. Social conversation, political debate and theoretical studies are similar to those that take place anywhere in the most developed world. Now we're talking -- how we're going to do during the debate -- about things that can improve, but not even the most busy talk about the delay in our health care, our social services, our schools, our universities or our economy. Here is a Greek achievement to which we must not spare praise nor forget that it has its origin in a Spanish and modeled Galician transition, which sought and achieved the confluence of wills, as I said at the beginning of my intervention. The historical memory. Historical memory must not, in fact, forget the black page that subjected the Franco-Francist dictatorship, but neither was there a reconciliation and that no one was entitled to undo it. Ladies and gentlemen, at that historic moment, Members and Members like us have drawn Galicia forward, avoiding traumatic events. [[Applause]] And that responsibility we all have today. Politics has consequences. Good politics has good consequences. Bad politics has bad consequences. We are seeing it often in territories of the European Union and Spain itself. Countries and communities with a high level of freedom and well-being are compromised by their coexistence because of the policies that only seek to satisfy self-centered leaders. There is a policy that is made with people and for people and one that sacrifices people on the altar of illusory adventures. Together with the already known political categories, there is another that is now of great importance: that which separates the responsibility of irresponsibility. A politician in responsibility may make mistakes, but he will never endanger the foundations of coexistence, while the irresponsible has an incalculable destructive capacity. The responsible politician will never say "I am the people"; he will always be considered a provisional delegate of popular sovereignty. The irresponsible will fall into the temptation to feel a messiah, an emperor or a caudillo to whom everything is permitted. I chose responsibility. In spite of being a depositary of a popular, electoral and eloquent parliamentary majority, I never said or said that Galicia is me. It surprises me and even scandalises me that other leaders claim an exclusive and exclusive representation of national patriotism, autonomic patriotism or local patriotism. I'll never do it. [[Applause]] Neither did I promote or promote conflicts, nor will I confuse stage management and action, nor did I practice or practice that style of government that is consistent with doing what is done. Galicia does not want rulers who are simply in the Government, but rulers who rule. I've committed myself to defending Galicia and I'm doing it and I'm going to continue to do it, always trying to improve it, but respecting what it is and preserving its freedom. To be completely free, I am aware that it is necessary to continue to work in an area that still conditions us: maleistic violence. We have a lot of resources available to the victims, but proof that they are still insufficient has their own name: Magdalena, Maria Judith and Ana Belén, the three murdered women in the year. The pact reaching national level calls on all of us to keep working, and we will do it. Without going further, the vice president will come to the Senate next week to represent all communities on this subject. And in addition to defending our position, we will also continue to act on more instruments for victims, such as care offices and a shift in the profession of psychologists, with a support program for children under 25 years of age who suffer this scourge, and also by providing more education programs for young people and with a plan against sexual assaults so that all men understand that "no" means no. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is determined to use its freedom to achieve more equality, in the same way it is to love it more and to protect its natural wealth, to get further and to continue progressing in rural and urban areas, to continue to improve its public services and to open up more to the world. With that freedom we came here, and freely we remain a people with their own identity and culture. Freedom is the opposite of taxation. And that's why the Greeks are and we feel free to speak in any language. In order for this freedom to become effective, it is necessary to continue to improve the language skills of the Greeks. More than ninety-seven percent of the Greeks understand Greek and we can talk about it and read it; the best figure in our history. To further improve, especially in writing skills, Together is making an important bet so that Celga certificates — and the training needed to obtain them — can be obtained online. Let the Greek be the best known co-official language does not make us forget that the great challenge is to promote its use, especially among young people and especially in urban areas. That's why we launched a promotional campaign at summer festivals and we're still working on business. The Greek, ladies and gentlemen, is a language suitable for doing business, and it also offers an important international projection, since it unites us with more than 200 million citizens in the field of Lusophony. Most Galicians make no distinction between their children, nor does they depend on their strength. It's our loving and firm model that you don't need to constantly invent complaints to keep up. At this moment that freedom is more necessary than ever. Not only to get away from alien models that are destructive, but also because they generate currents here that aim to polarize our way of being. Neither those who claim that the Spanish has disappeared from Galicia nor those who want to impose the Greek really know Galicia. The Greeks and the Greeks wrote in these years of autonomous freedom their own model, based on cordiality and moderation. [[Applause]] No Greek feels the enemy of his neighbour. No Greek is foreign to another Greek. No Greek is excluded from the collective adventure on which we are all boarded. In this new context, which partly reminds us of the old one, Galicia is again placed with democracy, with stability, with openness and with the identity that brings us closer to others. Galicia is moving away from unstable models, from frivolous policies and politicians that conceal its fear of ruling reality with fiction that leads to poverty, division and frustration. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks prefer respect and coexistence, coherence and commitment. We are people of words and people of words. Galicia is not a place of passage in history. We're one of the oldest people. But the future is not written. The chapter of the new decade, the Galician Xacobeo 21, I propose to write it among all. This xacobeo 21 Galicia which we have to achieve with all our pride, with fewer taxes, with more growth in an orderly and egalitarian manner. A Galician place to arrive, where to stay and where to return. I went out, came back and stayed. Some thought my future was written, and indeed it was, but not as they hoped. He wrote the Welsh and the Welsh with his support in 2009, 2012 and 2016. That's why my answer was always the same, which was written to me in the polls, first, until 2012; then, until 2016; and now, until 2020. The Greeks and the Greeks will continue to write: Galicia, Galicia, Galicia. [[Applause]] Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u7	Thank you, President. The session is suspended until 6:00 p.m., 4 p.m.f.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u8	Good afternoon. We resume the session with the turn of parliamentary groups. We started with the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. That's what Mrs. Pontón Mondelo has to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u9	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Feijó, today we are in the debate of the state of the Greek nation. This is neither the debate of the mood of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, nor the debate of the state of Pedro Sánchez, nor of Catalonia, is the debate of the state of the Greek nation. And what the people of this country expected was that they had talked about Galicia, about the problems and the solutions, that they had answered a question: Is Galician, is this country's citizenship better than when you arrived at Mount Pio, nearly a decade ago, I remind you? Do the Greeks and the Greeks live better? Do you have better jobs and wages? Do they get better public services? Our boys and girls have better prospects for the future than their parents' generation? Do our elders enjoy better pensions? These are the questions you had to answer in this debate. But none of this centered his intervention. Again he came here with a resounding speech, rancio, copying the homilies of his new boss Pablo Casado; a speech in which he repeats the promises of always and in what he acts as this prophet president of posverity. Because it's hard to tell us that we'll never live better when we're in a country where 500,000 people are at risk of exclusion and have emigrated 270,000. It's a fact that he's unworthy of the diesel to the president who has multiplied the gas oil tax by four. [[Applause]] It's a fact that he's announcing us tax downloads and not clarifying how many doctors he's going to suppress, how many teachers he's going to cut. After all, you tell us that you're the president who takes your losses to Galicia, if you've increased our debt by 270 percent. It's a fact that demographic problems are solved either by laws or by styles at birth; the problem is economy, not demography. And it's a fact that he told us that because of Pedro Sánchez he couldn't bring the ceiling. Mr. Feijóo, last year he brought the ceiling in time and form and had not approved it by the Central Government either. You're making a partisanism on this subject. [[Applause]] And it is also a fact that you claim yourself as the "militant of Galicia", when, Mr. Feijóo, you were the accomplice of all the ill-treatment and discrimination of the state with Galicia: the delays of the AVE, the cuts, the veto to the transfer to AP-9, the veto to a Greek electric tariff. [[Applause]] You are indeed the prophet president of the post-verity. That's the seriousness that you take this country. But don't worry that here's the BNG to talk about what you don't want to answer. Do the Galicians and the Greeks live better today after their years of unrest? Let's start with the job. Despite his promises, there's more unemployment, less employment and worse quality than when he got to the board. The Greeks and the Greeks are installed in precariousness, with pensions and wages that are of the lowest in the state and with emigration. The hole that leaves that emigration indentation is as if the city of Coruña had disappeared. There's no miracle Feijóo. Galicia occupies the state's last job recovery place and we're far from the 2009 figures. His economic policy has resulted in a 40% decline in youth employment. Do you begin to understand why we have this demographic problem, Mr Feijóo? And finally, I don't know if you remember that you promised to end the pay gap. You know what happened? Well, that doesn't stop growing, and today we women earn €5,480 less than men for doing the same job. Mr. Feijóo, we see that your promises about employment have the same credibility as the masters of your new boss Pablo Marado. [[Applause]] Let's analyze how public services are. Do we have better health today? You claim the waiting lists go down, but it's that the Galego Institute of Statistics says there are more people waiting for a surgical intervention, and the same for a specialist. He's increased in five years in 25,000 people who are waiting to meet a specialist, and it's already 175,000. And all of this without telling the whole waiting list that's hidden in the drawers. He also claims that there have never been so many doctors: However, the General Account of Sergas who refer to this parliament, what he tells us is that 1,727 professionals have been cut off. While we're debating here, in that Galician one you've never lived better, Mr. Feijóo, it turns out there are 100,000 Greeks and Greeks who can't take medicines they need to cure because they can't afford them. Their cuts and privatizations are attacking people's health. His government cut EUR 2 billion in public health in primary care and devoted that same amount to private health. Is that what it is, a chance, Mr. Feijóo? He precarried the working conditions by putting the health care staff in a limited position, as the CAP workers and workers are telling him, who are going to strike because they've been warning him that the cuts are killing. You told us about Vigo. And, in fact, in Vigo they know a lot about cuts and privatizations in health. A public hospital that had to cost 450 million, after its privatisations, will cost us 1,350 million. And now in Vigo they also have Povervis again pressing to earn more. Poor man, that's an example of a rotational door manual. And the person responsible for all this is you. Mr. Feijóo, stop being the monk of private health. [[Applause]] But beyond data there is a dramatic fact that demonstrates how far their health policy is a disaster. I mean that dramatic fact that happened at the Road CAP, where José Manuel Brey died in the corridors of a health center because there was no doctor to help him. And the truth is, he surprises his lack of humanity on such a sensitive subject when data and facts speak for themselves. Mr. Feijóo, how can you have the political indecency to come here laughing at the Greeks and the Greeks after all that has happened, telling them that health has never been better? How can you have that indecency? And if the health is bad, public education didn't get away with it either. What they do with education sums up very well their model of society: elitism, they want citizens of first and second; indoctrination, they don't want a critical teaching that learns to think, they want a teaching that learns to obey. Disengagement: they want an off-line teaching of Galicia and our language. That's why they cut off in public education, as they increasingly derive resources from private resources and shield concerts that divide by sex. Is that? Is it a technical matter or is it ideology, Mr. Feijóo? Your star proposal is computers, because, of course, computers don't protest in the street against cuts. Is it worth having more computers that 1,800 teachers and teachers have been deleted? The university, which is key to the future of any country, has also suffered severe cuts. And you know, as I know, and as the three principals of the Greek universities know, that the funding system is insufficient and much lower than the countries in our environment. Those cuts are causing a precariousness in research that makes a lot of talent emigrate. We've come to the point where we have advanced biomedical research projects that have to resort to crowdfunding to finance. Look how things are, Mr. Feijóo! This, of course, doesn't matter. And what's going on with another one of the pillars of the state of well-being? What is the dependency balance?There are 10,000 people who don't receive benefits to whom they have rights, 30,000 people need home help and they don't have it, 14,000 people who need adapted transport don't have it, and 12,300 people ask to go to a center of the day and they don't have a place. It's two years to access a public residence, when the law says it has to be nine months. And you've been doing what for years?: promising. He promised us, I don't know, in 2016, 2017 and 2018 that he was going to make seven public residences. Always the same promise! Do you know what the reality is? Not a single brick, not a single project. And we're not going to see any of those residences working in this legislation. His main contributions to the dependency were to be complicit with Raxoi's cuts and not claim the 186 million euros that the state owes us. Only if we were paid one of these years would we care for 6,000 dependents and 1,500 new jobs would be created. So much so that you fill your mouth — right? We see it every day — criticizing those who don't comply with the law, and Mr Feijóo escaped from his responsibilities with the dependents. And in this context of unemployment, precariousness and cutbacks of basic services, I wonder—all and all of us ask, and the Greeks and the Greeks within twenty years will also be asked—why did Galicia owe? I did the calculation of how many years we're going to have to pay your debt? Mr. Feijóo, when did this debt cease to be sustainable? You don't leave an inheritance of prosperity, you leave a debt of nearly 15,000 million euros that others will have to pay. It's like those parents who leave their daughters behind are inheritances of unpaid mortgages. A mortgage of nearly 15,000 million euros. In short, Mr. Feijóo, you are a terminator for Galicia, your policies are like the weeds that prevent the country from flourishing. That's why we have a Galician precarious, low wages, while the cost of life is fired: light, electricity, gas... its legacy is the cuts and privatization of public services, which both harm and suffering have been caused. You leave a Galician where young people emigrate and older people bear the second lowest pensions in the state. Your government is installed in the paralysis and it's a slab for Galicia, because you're part of the problem, not the solution, and because you're a compound who doesn't trust Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] And allow me a tip, I recommend you give your driver a day off, leave the official car for a day and walk the streets of this country and listen to what people are like. He'll hear that there are girls who want to work but who can't, because if they do it to their mother, they take the risk. And he'll also hear that there are a lot of people who had to leave their home because he had to choose between eating or paying bills. He will also hear that for many people the only reconciliation service that exists are grandparents and grandparents. And you'll hear that there's families who've been unable to hold the heat in winter for years. Just listen to me, Mr. Feijóo, step over the street and listen to the people! [[Applause]] And he assumes his responsibilities, because Galicia's problems don't fall from the sky, they're the result of his government and his wickedness. There's more unemployment and less employment because there's no economic activation plan for this country's industrial and productive base. Austerity, which you like so much, was a job breaker. We have a serious problem with the relocation of companies, and their star measure last year, the Business Implementation Act, has failed sharply in order to attract more foreign investment. In the first half of this year, foreign investment fell sharply. I don't know if you know, Mr. Feijóo, that in the street you're already beginning to talk about what there's like a kind of Feijóo effect. Every time you promise something, just the opposite happens. We're starting to think that it's much better, for the sake of the country, that it doesn't make any promises again. [[Applause]] Because, yes, yes, this is exactly what happens to innovation. Today Mr. Feijóo again told us that he was going to bet on an innovative Galician. But we were in the train car of innovation! 0.86% of GDP in R & D+i, and falling down in the years when there was a better economic situation in theory. He put us at Bulgaria level in innovation. The merits of its government are to reduce investment and make half of the innovative companies disappear. Your government every time you see something of lightning innovation. You're an innovicide! And I don't say, tell him your data and your management. And finally, he doesn't have any plans for the productive sectors either for agriculture, for livestock, or for fishing. Our farmers and farmers produce a top quality milk, but industries pay them a second price, the lowest in the state. We are the country of Europe with the least useful agricultural area, all its merit! In the sea, today's quotas are lower than when you reach the Union. Did it work? More than 3,600 jobs were lost in fishing, and in agriculture, and it would earn more than 13,300. And this was the legislation of the countryside, Mr. Feijóo! Oh, my God! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Time passes, Mr. Feijóo, and you're already getting an age. I'm sure you're thinking about retirement. I don't know if you've thought about how much your pension will rise. What I'm sure you know is what Galicia's average pension is, 810.71 euros, the second lowest in the state. [[Murmurs.]] It is true that pensions are not the business of the Union, but their party, the People's Party, has cut off pensions, has supported the increase in retirement age, has stolen workers' rights and workers' rights. And you applauded all these thefts. But today we want to talk about non-contributory pensions, about which we do have room for action. Those pensions that almost 40,000 people charge, mostly women, and that they have to buy, pay bills, pay medicine and wear less than 370 euros a month. The BNG proposal is that we ease the situation of these people by raising the autonomic supplement to 100 euros per month. A perfectly feasible proposal, it's about 40 million euros in a 9,000 budget. We know it's not the bottom line. We aspire to a social integration income, but it would be to give them oxygen to family economies. By the way, I don't know if you've been told what your pension will be. I'll tell him: he'll charge eight times what the people we're talking about charge. And if you turned your back on pensioners, what about women? After an 8M mass who has demonstrated the deep discomfort of the Greeks with their policies, their commitment to equality is portrayed in this judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia which condemns them for trying to boycott the 8M strike. What a shame, a president who doesn't respect and boycotts the women of this country! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I have to tell him that we women are sick of not being respected. No man has the right to tell a woman whether she's in need or not. And it's a much greater offense when they're public representatives who do it. It should not end this debate without unchecking these demonstrations and apologize for failing to respect women. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And look, you're not legitimized to talk about conciliation. And it's not when the example set by the Galician Consortium of Equality and Welfare is that they prevent workers from exercising the rights of reconciliation. And when those workers want to conciliate, workers who depend on the board, do you know where they have to go? To the judges, because you are preventing them from conciliating. This, Mr. Feijóo, is your commitment to conciliation! And the other one we can say with the pay gap. How could it be that if it's a woman who cleans her office in San Caetano, she'll cover less than if a man does it? It's injustice! There's a basic principle: equal work, equal pay. End this disgraceful machist in your government! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I have to tell you that I am not able to understand why the fight against gender-based violence is not a priority of your government. I'm not able to understand how much it seems to you that we dedicated one out of every 100 euros to fighting a problem that has cost them their lives in a decade more than 40 women in this country, which causes a rape to be reported every week, that every day sixteen women come to file a complaint for violence. Don't you think it's a serious enough situation for us to devote 1% to the fight against macho violence? I am absolutely sure that if instead of talking about forty women we were talking about forty Members, or forty footballers, the answer would be totally different. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And to finish this rocking block, there are two other topics we want to talk about: the environment and language. Galicia has serious environmental problems and its government is in cross arms: neither integral regeneration of the rivers, nor bet on composting, no energy transition, no emission reduction. On the contrary, their policies are a climate change machine. Here too, it is true that the Environmental Adviser was not on the Council's agenda, he was preparing a campaign of municipal elections. [[Applause]] And its alternative, to put in front of the Environmental Council the responsible for the greatest environmental catastrophe this decade, which was the wave of fires. It's a spook worthy of Valle-Inclán. [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, yeah, you know what my grandmother would say before all this? God take us for confession! [[Applause]] But, look, there are two environmental issues that you haven't answered: First, the Touro-O Pino mine. Your government has to tell us which side it is on, is it on the side of a multinational convicted of environmental crimes or on the side of the social cry it claims to say no to that mine because it's an environmental bomb that puts thousands of jobs at risk in Touro, in the Pino and in the Arousa River? Tell us which side he's on, it's very easy: mine yes, mine no. And a second question that has to do with the mountain, because indeed the mountain, which is a wealth, the policies of the People's Party have become the biggest environmental problem our country has at the moment. And we've all seen, we all had a scare this Sunday seeing what was going on in Mondariz, because he actually reminded us of what happened a year ago, which is the most obvious example of the failure of how you conceive the mountain and the forest policy. Forty-nine acres burned in three days, four people died — we didn't forget, or their families — and a multi-millionaire economic and environmental loss. And your solution -- if you allow me to say so in a very graphic way -- is to put more gasoline in the fire. Your solution is more eucalyptus and still mortgages the interest of the unique and exclusively Greek mountain because you care more about what happens to Ence and Finsa than what's going on in our mountain. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And we think we have to stop this nonsense, so we make proposals: First, a new policy for the mountain, which we really bet on a multifunctional mountain, by the native woods of quality, by closing the productive cycle of wood and by curbing the uncontrollable eucalyptus, which cannot occupy even one more meter of land in our country. Remove that forest plan from the service of Ence and, indeed, let's make a pact that will serve to change things and not to do more of it. Secondly, use the mechanisms you have, bet on mountain management. He has instruments, he approves an integrated forest firefighting plan. Mr. Feijóo, it's very sad for any German or Galician to see how you want to place your own tongue in a endangered species. I want to take advantage of this debate to denounce that lies against the Greek language are very dangerous. And it's not like they're lying to say that the Spanish is missing in Galicia, like saying that there's someone who imposes Welsh in Galicia. They are the two sides of the same Welsh and supremacist speech that seeks to conceal reality: that the Greek is excluded from many spheres and has a position of inequality. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You made it worrying is the situation that the Royal Galaga Academy in recent reports is saying things that any government concerned with language would make it correct. You do what you literally say, you said you took back your language in teaching 20 years. It also says: "We can conclude that the application of the Multilingualism Decree has brought about a reversal in all areas analyzed: in the language of classes, in the use of companions, in oral use with teachers and in written uses." And he concludes, "Something is failing when our legal order, from the very beginning of autonomy, plans to move forward towards a situation of Greek normality and equality with Spanish and, on the other hand, a growing part of Welsh feels an increasing pressure to abandon Greek and adopt Spanish." This is the portrait of his linguistic policy. The same ones who have precarried lives, cut rights, pensions, and wages also precarve the language. But we're convinced they're going to fail, because as Castelao said, always in Galicia: "You're a failed imperialist." Employment, insufficient; health, deteriorating; education, cut; fisheries, reduced; agriculture, impoverished; environment, contaminated; equality, scarce; language, precarious; Government, paralyzed. With this picture, it is clear that there is an increasing need for public media to be converted into a delegation of the People's Party press office. Again, you, who fills your mouth with words to comply with the law, violates the law of the media and violates your role as a public service. And I ask all of you and all of you, Mr. Feijóo, if possible, to do an imagination exercise here. Imagine that you are told that there is a country in which the director of public television, who had to name the parliament, who appoints the government to his finger; that that director, appointed to his finger, gives instructions for him to hide and minimize corruption of the ruling party; that workers have been manifesting for months because they do not allow them to report freely; that, in addition to all this, they resign two presenters of the information to denounce the manipulation; and that they open a file to one of the presenters, and the real reason is that he denounces in a gala to which the president of that country attended the information manipulation. Do you think this country is a country where democracy is concerned? Because this country is neither Saudi Arabia nor Turkey, this country is Galicia. [[Applause]] And their answers portray their idea of democracy. Do you really think you can come here to Parliament and tell us that you don't know anything about TV, that you don't see TVG? [[Applause]] He seems to have Ana Mato's syndrome, which he didn't see either of the jaguars in the garage. If he's really a man of democratic principles and values, he'll be with me and he'll have to end his appointment on the CRTVG and choose a new address for a public contest. If you believe in the independence of journalists, you already make up the editorial boards. And if you trust the professionals, you'll just approve your professional status. We're not asking you to do anything extraordinary, just keep the law, Mr. Feijóo. In conclusion, you've been in the official car for a decade, sleeping in Monte Pio, but unable to launch an ambitious country project. You're not the future, you're the past. [[Applause]] And we've made it clear that another Galician is possible if we change course. We are not to resign ourselves or fall into despair, because we are a rich country, with capacity and potential. And to move forward, Galicia needs two things: economic power and political power; that is, more tools to improve people's lives. And if we do, I'm convinced that we will have a promising future. To build economic power, we have to drive a government bank in Greece, which ends with the policy of our savings; a Welsh electric tariff, which puts an end to the scam of the bill of light; a new economic model, which is set by the productive sectors, by closing cycles in the country and by innovation; and a new financing model, which gives us the key to the money of the Greeks and the Greeks. You on this subject have been dizzy for a long time and simply doing regionalist third-party tourism. Since the BNG we encourage him to abandon centralism, to stop defending the position that interests Madrid and the People's Party and to defend Galicia's interests. That he defends an economic concert, because it's the only real option for us to have real self-government and not just to be here what they tell us from Madrid. An economic concert would allow us to have control over all the money that is generated in our country, give us more economic resources, allow us to apply a fair taxation, in which it really pays the most, and a tax adapted to the reality of our country. And we also defend a concert for pride, because we trust in Galicia's ability and we don't buy that false idea that we live on the solidarity of the state. Actually, it's only from a colonial mentality that you can say that Galicia is losing with the economic concert and keeping that false idea that Galicia lives thanks to Madrid's solidarity. We need economic power and we also need another tool: real political power. I mean, the important decisions we make here, between the Greeks and the Greeks, and not thousands of miles where others decide for us, and it's not Galicia who decides. That is why we bring the debate the proposal that we should not miss Galicia an opportunity and that the mistakes of the past should not be repeated. Let us put in place a presentation to articulate a new political framework for Galicia that recognizes us as what we are — as Castelao said —: a nation with the right to decide its future and to leave behind the constraints of autonomy. We speak of everything without bounds or corsets. And while we're working on this new frame, we can't keep our arms crossed, we have to defend a Welsh agenda before the state. You have to do it because you haven't been able to defend Galician interests in these years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u10	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u11	It led Galicia to irrelevance, to a sort of political ostracism. You never had a Welsh agenda; your only schedule was to be very faithful to Rajoy, total submission. And now we see what your new aspiration is, to be useful to Pablo Casado. It's a shame that that's the only contribution. I have to tell you that sometimes it makes you feel like your country starts and ends with the decisions you make on Genoa Street. You've been complicit in all the discrimination with Galicia: the delays in AVE, the cuts in investments — yes, yes, do you want us to see the data of the execution? — the veto of the transfer of AP-9, the veto that we benefit from the production of electricity... and we say we need to change this script. We must end that dynamic where the state forces say something when they're in opposition and against it when they're in government. We have to defend a government's agenda, a government's agenda, a galley agenda to put an end to the extension of the Ence; so that it will be activated now, without delay, the return of the palace of Meirás; for us to have an AP-9 public, Welsh and without fees; for us to bet on the modernization of the railway and the vicinity; an agenda for us to pay us the 186 million euros that owe us dependence; and for us to have trials of gender violence in all cities. And a Greek agenda that bets on an ambitious transfer package — for you, Mr Feijóo, was the chairman of zero transfers — that includes ports of general interest, traffic skills, the development of the Welsh Police, the Min-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, the management of pensions or the framework of the Greek labour relations. Finally, it's about trusting Galicia, deciding about us and breaking up with a centralism that has never brought anything good to this country. And as my time is over, just a minute to make a brief reflection. We are going through an economic, social and democratic crisis that some want to solve the coup of involution. A democratic involution which in the Spanish state is really suffocating, where we see how everything is wrapped up by corruption. Corruption has returned to March Spain. And on this subject I want to be fair, corruption is not exclusive to the People's Party, it's part of that system that created the 1978 regime. It infects the Royal House, the judiciary and the economic elite. I think we just have to see what's going on with the electricians and the bank to see how the governments legislate in favor of the great economic powers, legalizing large scams. We saw it with the bank ransom or I see it every day, everyone with the bill of light.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u13	I'm done. We have come to such a level of involution that in this state there are rapists exiled by the lyrics of their songs, there are politicians and citizens in prison for defending their ideas. And, you know, nineteen new Greeks can be tried for putting on a sign claiming that the Franco family will give us back the Meirades palace. I use to send them our solidarity, because they gave us a master's lesson. [[Applause]] As magistrates were Castile and Bóveda, and the whole generation of Welsh and Welsh people who had set out for nationalism a hundred years ago, who have done a titanic work in favor of Galicia, promoting very important social, cultural and political initiatives, from the creation of the Savings Box of Pontevedra to Zeltia company, going through the artistic advantages of Galicia, or the first proposal for an economic concert that Alexandre Boveda made... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u15	...who, as everyone knows—and already finished, President—...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u17	...or almost everyone, Mr. Feijóo, was an economist. They had a national project, transformer and modernization of the country; a project that was truncated by fascism, with a devastating result, paying with life and exile their love for Galicia. Castelao and Boveda are a collective heritage, of all the Greeks and of all the Greeks, of all but the fascists who killed them and their heirs. Castelao and Boveda gave up their lives to defend this country, and they did it because they were nationalists, for their sakes. It is a very great offense to his memory that there is a president who has the disqualification of manipulating, twisting or concealing his legacy and the ideas they have defended, who remain very clear in the Always in Galicia. The moral grasp of those who do so is depicted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u19	It's over. Ten seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u20	Thank you. Your time is up, Mrs. Pontón. You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u21	I'm done. Ten seconds. Castelao didn't dream of a Galician emigration, or of caciques, or of people who can't stop the heating. Castile dreamed of a free and dignified Galician, and opened a new path that beats into the heart of thousands of Greeks and Greeks, and is the hope of a better future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u23	We still believe in that dream...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u25	...and that's why we don't resign...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u26	Your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u27	...to live in this precarious present.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u28	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u29	Gallica doesn't fail, you fail, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u30	Mrs. Pontón, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u32	Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u33	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start at Castile. Castile today is claimed by all and, fortunately, to me, it seems good news. But we must also recognize it as what it is, as it was: a Welshman, a Republican, a member of the People's Front, an exile, who sometimes said things that are difficult to assume by some. For example, I quote always in Galicia: "The elements on the right..." — Castelao said —......only conceive an artificial homeland, put to the service of their interests." This was Castile too. Today we all claim, happily, but we must know him. [[Applause]] Mr. Núñez Feijóo, we had a successful year in political events: Gürtel's judgments, which were an evidence of the structural corruption of the People's Party; the change of government in Spain, which represents an opportunity for us to move forward; the change of leadership in the People's Party; the permanent tension in Catalonia; the international uncertainty with Brexit, with the trade war between the United States and China; and the continuation of an economic recovery that has indications that the queued winds that were pushing it have less strength than before. What's left here? For we lack the measures, initiatives or positive projects that would have to take forward to Galicia this past year. What can you offer the citizens as a balance sheet for this year of government? What can you offer them as a big project of practically a decade that you've been ruling? I believe that your Executive was like a surfer who just took advantage of the kinetics of the waves to advance in time, to keep himself in power, with inertia, with propaganda, with the sole objective of winning the following elections. What do we remember about their last twelve months, if we leave aside -- allow me a touch of cinematic humor -- that episode of "novice to escape" from the Spanish right? You say you're still here, but your decision not to leave after you've been thinking for a while indicates exactly that you've obeyed the calculation, not the commitment. [[Applause]] What do we remember about this last year? We remember last autumn's fires, with several dead. We remember the endless strike of justice. We remember the break with the massive feminist strike of March 8th. We remember CRTVG's black Fridays. We remember the death of a patient in the road CAP. I could keep going, but I'm gonna go. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, the paralysis of his government is perfectly illustrated when we attend his legislative program: eleven laws planned for this year, from the Galician Digital Administration to the Demographic Impulse. And do you know how many projects have been submitted in this Parliament? Zero. What about the previous year? In addition to the budgets and the Accompanying Law, only the Animal Welfare Act. That explains the paralysis of his government. He was a president who preferred to play the chain in Galicia before having a stumbling block that had an impact in Madrid. And he's had part of his government waiting for the conviction of municipal sacrifice galleries in the coming months. We could follow, but I want to sum up by saying that it was a paralysed Government, that it did not respond to any of the fractures — neither social, nor generation, nor territorial, nor gender — that we denounced twelve months ago; that it was characterized by its action as Government by inertia and propaganda, with the only objective of winning the following elections. It is true, after last October's fires, that we have set up a Forestry Policy Commission which has been an amendment to the whole of its policy for the mountains in recent years, and a purely disguised recovery of President Touriño's mandate initiatives. We did it from Parliament, with the participation of the social agents interested in the mountain, and we turned it around like a sock to their forest policy. So much so that he had to change as a counselor — as we congratulate him — so much so today he announced that he is going to present a land mobilization bill in order to be able to implement this, after having told us a few minutes before he changed all the mountain legislation in recent years. We congratulate the new advisor, but we must also tell him that we are going to be demanding with what he has signed; strict in time and vigilant in the fulfilment of what is agreed, to prevent the unfortunate events of last year from repeating. We all want them not to repeat themselves, and even their echoes — like Mondariz's this year — do not happen again. We're not going to comply with rhetoric, propaganda or promises, we're going to want reality. Mr. President, he has been ruling for almost ten years, he can no longer claim innocence or appeal to inheritances received. He ruled with absolute majority, with a Government friend in Madrid who also had for a time an absolute majority. He had everything in his favor to fulfill what he promised in 2009, minus the context, but that unfavorable context already knew him when he became president and when he made the promises. We're going to make a realistic diagnosis and we're going to put the accent on four themes: in demography -- you recognized this morning -- Galicia is still going down; in economics, just ten years later we're back to the starting point, but with more inequalities, with less jobs and more precariousness; in public services, hard budgetary adjustment and conservative approach left very severe wounds; and in infrastructure, with the so-called Plan Move adopted in 2010, we could say that the president arrived and ordered to stop. The context has not helped, but both Mr. Rajoy and you are responsible for managing the crisis. You felt comfortable with the restrictive economic policy measures that Mr. Montoro was pushing between 2011 and 2018, and in ten years he managed about twice Galician GDP; therefore, for good or bad, you are also responsible for what happened. He's usually assumed to have prevented Galicia from breaking up, and that happens to be a great achievement of his government. But we have to say that there was no autonomous community that broke — which we knew —. That achievement is therefore at least shared by the other autonomous communities. Galicia was the same as the rest. [[Applause]] You also pretend to balance your accounts and accuse others of wastefulness. But the debt increased during his government from 3,900 to more than 11,500 million euros. [[Murmurs.]] And that wouldn't be a problem, there's no problem of sustainability -- in our opinion -- about debt, but if we miss that this would be useful to put in place a stronger research system, or to complete the missing infrastructures, to put in place that Move Plan of what we're talking about. Without a doubt, it has served them to endure all this time, but it has not served them to modernize Galicia nor to advance in the correction of inequalities. Today we need to be strict about the accounts, but also ambitious about the goals and projects. Within the agreed deficit limits, but exhausting them at the service of a country project. You don't, and we suppose it will be because there are no defined targets beyond electoral survival at all costs. That is why they also oppose — and we have never just understood it — the relaxation of the deficit with the European Union, which would mean quite a few million extra euros for the autonomous communities and of course also for Galicia. It would mean more doctors, more residences, more opportunities for researchers, more teachers, more dependent caregivers, etc. We don't comply with his lack of ambition. And we don't understand why they don't want to submit to a criterion that the European Union is authorising. [[Applause]] Galicia survived that crisis, survived the restrictive policies of Montoro and Rajoy, survived its management, and in recent years it's awakening. We don't want to make, and we don't, a catastrophic speech. It is true that the productivity of work is recovering and that foreign trade is evolving satisfactorily. It's okay. But the question that we should all ask ourselves is, what is the contribution of the Galician Union to these good results? When the manufacture or the car visits and conquers foreign markets, does anyone seriously consider that it is the Union of Galicia that is behind it? The recovery of the naval sector depends directly on the international business cycle. When it went wrong, it was wrong here, now that it's okay, it's going well here. The specific pledges PEMEX style or that huge investment that would be in the dairy sector and that you announced in the last election campaign, where are they? The modernization of Galicia is being done because there are entrepreneurs at risk, there are self-employed, there are cooperatives, there are family companies or large groups that are betting on the country. There are entrepreneurs who believe in an idea and sometimes fail and sometimes succeed, but they're trying to get ahead of the country. And we know that responsible companies and the competitive market have a decisive role to play in our prosperity. We want to promote entrepreneurship, risk and competition in the double sense that this word has. But progress also depends on the effort and talent of researchers, who often in too precarious conditions work hard. From youth, which brings forward his studies in very difficult conditions, and then throws himself into the jungle of the labour market and ends up receiving 6 euros per hour in very precarious conditions. From workers and workers, who do their job knowing that training, seriousness and experience sometimes protect them, but sometimes not, from unemployment and wage adjustment. This resistant Galicia, with the capacity to overcome, is the one that's slowly pulling its head out of the well, which is making us progress collectively. And since politics we have to collaborate with that social effort. We believe that his paralysed government is helping much less than it ought because it has too much inertia, too much propaganda, and the head too set in the next elections. In demography, you've already recognized in the morning that things didn't go well. It has the sad privilege of having the record of fewer births in Galicia in the historical series in 2017. And it's not true that we've been down since 1990. He went up between 2004 and 2009 and has come down since you're president justly; and it's not just because of his management, but something has to do with it. Last year we told him that the Welcome Card was a magnificent gift for those who received it — badly managed — but would not have just an effect on birth. The fall of the number of births follows in addition to a growing pace, corroborating what we said. The dictates of the Demographic Observatory are finished in its initial phase, and we agree with its diagnosis: we need quality and sufficient employment, public services and conciliation strategies, and not rhetorical and simple gifts. You are adopted in rhetoric, but in this case I am suspended in results. Do you also know that you have the record in a negative vegetative balance in the difference between deaths and births? What also has your peak in 2017? Do you know that the accumulated negative balance exceeds 90,000 people since you've been president? This Galicia that goes at least is compatible with a government that in practice looks to the other side for mere incapacity; that does marketing with this, but does not get results. And recognizing that things are going wrong is fine, it's a step forward, but he didn't tell us what he's going to do to fix it. And in economics, what are you doing in Galicia? He was looking for the Economic Counsellor, but he's not. Does it have an effective project or is it limited to taking advantage of the global impulse of Spain and the action of the economic agents I formerly characterized? The Igape is paralyzed, it's becoming increasingly irrelevant and more ineffective. It's not just that the amount of expenditure you have in the initial budgets is that you're not able to execute those shrinking budgets either. Do you have any plans to reform the Igape? In R+D+i we are left behind: less researchers and less resources. We've been going back since 2009, and during the last years of expansion we're not doing the best, either, while the Basque Country, for example, already doubles its spending on public R & D in relation to Galicia. And the budget execution of AGAIN is very low and is declining. Do you have any plans to reform AGAIN? We're late for training. Sectors in rise as metal has a serious insufficiency of skilled workers, and while in 2017 the Economic Council program devoted to training in employment had a 7% degree of execution; not 70%, 7%! In infrastructures, Mr. Feijóo, his government simply threw out the towel as a boxer nocturnal. The MOVE Plan accounted for an investment of EUR 3,622 million in 2010. Do you know how much you've invested in Galician Union since that one? Just 600, and 60% of that in the years 2010 and 2011 because they were already engaged and the projects were launched. From there, absolute drought. [[Applause]] In practice, the plan has been paralysed since its adoption. You now require the General State Administration to do everything in infrastructure. All right, but the story should be applied and made possible here what you're asking the State to do, because we're in the same economic context. For when is the complete connection of Santiago to the Death Coast, or the Carballo variant, the high-performance variant of the North Coast, the connection to the Road? Is that right? For when is the doubling of the poor of San Xiao and Sarria? Is that right? And we're talking about small sections of the territory, small areas of the territory. You also forgot to apply the bonuses on the beaches that were set out in the MOVE Plan for the motorways of the autonomous community. It's good to call on the state, but let's also apply the same policy here. We're going to have some debate on this. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, in industrial policy, in innovation, in training, in infrastructure, does not get to the approved level. The economy is going, despite the ineffectiveness of the Galician Union on key themes that should strengthen our capacities for the future. They are embezzling the present and are deteriorating our prospects for the future. You talked a lot about tourism. It's okay. But you know what the statistics tell us? That in the last year Galicia leads the fall in overnight stays of all the autonomous Spanish communities, a -8%. What do you intend to do to change that dynamic? That's what matters. And this lack of action has serious consequences. The first one, the serious crack in employment. In the second quarter of 2018 Spain had 200,000 occupied more than nine years before. Galicia, 77,000 minus. Do you know how many more people would have occupation in Galicia if we behaved like the Spanish average between 2009 and 2018? 90,000. That's your responsibility, those 90,000 jobs that are missing and that we would have if we behaved like Spain. And that would eliminate all female unemployment or give employment to all of our youth, even to those who had to leave and who could come back to work here. That's your responsibility. The Youth Guarantee Initiative was a round failure in management. The use of funds for employment, together, deserves a clear rejection, not only in the Economic Council. I'm going to give you a different example. In Fishing, EPA has dropped its job quite since 2009, but Program 723A, which serves the generational relief, has only spent 37% in 2017. That was the runlevel reached. Industrial jobs fall. A more precarious job is created. Labour reform has reduced trade union bargaining power: wages are lowered. The activity rate of the young Galician youth is lower than Spanish, the higher temporality rate, and that's what the relevant age groups are getting smaller. We need to give a horizon to youth, with more and better education and more work opportunities. That's why we propose reforming the standards of Dual Vocational Training to make it more effective and broader. We intend to eliminate first-rate fees in universities and facilitate access to teachers with a more determined scholarship policy. That's why a reform of their entire employment policy is necessary, making the resources they count on work. We agree with the need to promote social dialogue, but we believe that it should serve to substantially reduce precariousness. We don't want him to stay in a photo, we want there to be tangible results in the short term. In public employment, of course, plans to reduce precariousness like the ones we've been proposing in the last two years. And in the private sector dependent on public administration through recruitment, social clauses can be a good tool to boost this fight. We fight precariousness, improve working conditions and promote environmental protection. But look, wages were 46.7% of gross domestic product in 2008 and are now 42.7%. The difference, in current terms, is close to 2,500 million. This is what they have lost — let us say — wages globally in Galicia. That means that somehow inequalities have increased. And this rise in profits, which is the other side of this downturn in wages, doesn't produce any more social wealth because it doesn't give rise to an expansion of economic capacity through investments. There is a leak of financial resources through the banking system, generally through the financial system, which has no further growth. He's not able to seduce the entrepreneurs who are already here to invest all the benefits they accumulate. And it doesn't seduce companies from outside to come here. We caught 0.27% of foreign investment in the last half of the year. But we've caught less than 0.5% in the last five years of the Spanish total. These are figures that indicate that Galicia is not a good place to invest. Tax policy for attracting investments is not functioning because it's clashing with the difficulties of real policy. When they drop taxes and then invest less in R & D, infrastructure, training, they're discouraging investment, and that's the real problem, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] Business creation data, after the adoption of the Business Initiatives Promotion Act, fell by 6%. But it's just that 6% fell, too, the year before. Something is happening and something must be done wrong when he tells us that in the accompanying law this year there will be a new change to facilitate the implementation of business initiatives. We'll discuss the tax drop when we meet her. It was a simple motto: let's lower taxes. He didn't tell us about it, and that's very difficult to discuss its effects. I'm just going to tell you that he's been advertising year after year down that with the passage of time we should have become a tax haven. And that's not what citizens perceive. By the way, parallelly, that you'd rhetorically lower your taxes, the Montoro actually went up to the IRPF or the IVE, which we all remember. [[Applause]] But let's see, when we go to the budget data presented by your Fatenda advisor, we're told that the tax benefits of 2018 are smaller than those of 2017. Low taxes and reduce the estimated tax benefits in the budget. Something's happening, Mr. Feijó. Or it's not real this trip, or something happens in that council. Three years ago, more than doubled the hydrocarbon tax on the diesel. At that time, the vice president defended that it was a great measure, which would have effects of environmental sustainability. But today you tell us everything else. Are they wrong three years ago or are they wrong now? The little I could understand about the tax cuts is that they were going to act on the property transmission tax, but that property transmission tax you just rose from 7% to 10%, and in some case from 4% to 8%. So, are they wrong then or are they wrong now? We'll discuss this more calmly when we talk about budgets. As a democratic, nothing said. He's been quiet about the public media, but they're full of concern for their workers. We've had 20 black Fridays, more and more massive, because there's never been so much intervention. Avoid applying a law adopted seven years ago, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, blocking all those forecasts that promote professionalism and information neutrality. No parliamentary election of the Director General, no professional status, no briefing board, no program contracts, no complete production of the information, no law of the audiovisual and the Audiovisual Council. Seven years have passed and life follows the same way: a premeditated and commonplace failure of the law. Are you going to commit yourself here today to comply with the law, this law that we passed seven years ago? We're talking about public media being put to the service of partisan interests. We are talking about pursuing critical journalists, reducing our democratic quality. The disciplinary file that's open will be an indelible stain on a resume, but I'm afraid it'll be in yours, and not in the journalist's haunted curriculum. [[Applause]] Let's also say something more about gender equality. It's the most relevant question in the 21st century. Women will win the battle of equality, I have no doubt, but today there are four women in Galicia working part-time for every man. And there are more women than men with temporary contracts, also in the public sector. If you promote indefinite public procurement, you will be working in favour of equality; equal parental and maternity leave will be promoted, as will Government Sánchez, the same. The wage gap persists in all stages of wages and age. Women have a mud soil and a glass ceiling. And only 27 percent of the executive or corporate staff in Galicia are women. But it's just that in the autonomic administration and in your businesses something like this happens, and that basically depends on you. Make a decision and make equality in the board of directors of companies dependent on the Autonomous Community. Break the glass roof and it'll be cooler. But there's a basic problem, the leaders of your party produce hilarious gender equality and react uncontrolledly. You know perfectly well that Junta was convicted of minimal abusive services on that March 8 strike, in which the spokesman for his party, Mr. Tellado, said, "Feminist strike is the most macho there is." Does he remember the reference to the flowering governments of his rapporteur on equality? [[Murmurs.]] Did you hear, I suppose, the other day, the mayor of Vilanova, who then repeated expressions that link Machism to the unacceptable personal insult? You have to tell us if that's the thought of your party, Mr. Feijóo. Take action or, if not, it will not be credible in this matter, in this debate. [[Applause]] At work, we don't think they have a project for this country. They have a project that seeks above all to remain in power, as it shows that it has turned the state debate of autonomy into an ad platform to help their candidates to the municipalities. In fact, the only serious political project by Alberto Núñez Feijóo is very well defined: his name is Alberto Núñez Feijóo. There's nothing more than that. But in recent times their degrees of freedom have been reduced. The escape wedding episode weakened him in Spanish politics, and, except for an accident, the exit to Spain is closed in the coming years. The recomposition of his government was a lost occasion to give Galicia a new impetus, instead of meeting the partisan needs. The change of government is defined in two words: control and continuity. Personal control with advisers very close to you, putting clear limits on provincial ambitions. And continuity, because the keys to political action are still in the same hands; there are no new actors, there is no new link of their government to other social sectors, no aspirations to open a new stage. This smaller government announces that you have in mind being a candidate again in 2020. Was it not prudent -- you said some time ago -- to limit yourself to two legislates? Alberto Núñez Feijóo of 1982 told us recently that he voted for Felipe González. I think this is not relevant, but, in any case, if so, Alberto Núñez Feijóo in 1982 would not vote for Feijóo 2009, Feijóo in 2012 or Feijóo in 2016, and we'll see in 2020. Because the Felipe González project in 1982 was clear: the modernization of Spanish society, the construction of a powerful and equitable tax system that would finance a capable State and a system of welfare progressively comparable to the European Union, integration into the European Union and the international affirmation of Spain and recognition of internal plurality. [[Applause]] I don't see it in those parameters. I cannot answer everything, I have little time, but allow me to tell you that, beyond repeating the promises of the previous year or recovering some of our initiatives in which they voted against, such as the extension of freeness in youth to the whole country — they voted against in April — there is little new in their speech. But I'm going to talk to you about health and social services. For us one of the most important metrics of public services is that which corresponds to the perception of its users. And the 2017 CIS barometer indicates that Galicia is the third worst health in the autonomous communities of Spain and that more than 75% of its users consider it necessary to change Sergas. Do we have a good system? Yes, but this system is seriously deteriorating as a result of the cuts and the management they have done since their government. The resistance of the professionals is maintaining the system, but it has a limit. Reduce staff in public health. I can give you data from the Ministry of Public Administration. There are 544 professionals less than in January 2009, 544. The OPE of a thousand six hundred squares — that's good, that we proposed and that you took the glove — is a palliative. We have to go further, because between retirements that are going to happen and employment consolidation this will not lead to the strengthening of public health that is necessary. There is an excessive precariousness that weakens the system and punishes professionals. Of the more than two thousand five hundred MIRs since you are president, they only incorporated 15% into the system, and in 2017 Junta dedicated more than 20% of its chapter I in health care to pay any contract. This is weakening the system, with a government that says it's defending professionals but that's actually punishing them and kicking out of the system those who form or, at best, exploiting them in an abusive way. And in the 2017 CIS barometer, it's triple users who say waiting lists have worsened against those who say they're getting better. This is not reflected in your statistics, because you do good statistics management, but they do much worse manage waiting lists. In the waiting times for the first query, users who waited for more than six months would go from 8.6% to 14.4% in a year, twice as much as in Spain. [[Applause]] The reality of the health system is in the waiting rooms of hospitals and health centers and not in the lists that you're publishing. Vigo is condemned with you to experience the problems of a private-dependent public health, the patients who are referred to in Povervisa and a Cunqueiro Alvaro who has a management in which the private initiative has more space than it should. We are not opposed to private initiative, but we defend a public service that must be efficient and aim to meet the needs of citizenship. He's been ruling for ten years and he hasn't solved this situation. You voted against establishing a catalogue of services that would homogenise health care in all health areas. You can't come now to tell us that you want to advance public health throughout the territory. And he's coming to the Health Research Committee because since the opposition we've created. You just said you didn't show up in this plenary when we asked for opposition groups, and you're going to come because we created it from the opposition, because you didn't want to create that commission and you think it's a mistake. And I hope that this commission will allow you to put figures and letters on the reality of cuts, precariousness, privatization, care deficits and suppressions of health areas, as well as waiting lists in public health, and that evidence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u34	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u35	...allows you to change your health policy. In social services, Mr. Feijóo, there are 131,456 people with severe material shortages. This means that you can't afford a meat meal, meat or fish every two days, keep housing at an adequate temperature, pay regularly the expenses of your principal housing or have a telephone, the four things at once. None of us certainly knows what it is to live like this, but there is one in every 20 of our citizens who are experiencing it every day. And in the meantime, the number of Risga receivers, emergency aid, falls in 2017. Now he has promised the rapid publication of the development decree of the Social Inclusion Act, but he has been stopped for several years and continues to maintain a risk neither sufficiently dignified nor bureaucratic, unindivided, that he is putting obstacles in order to make work integration compatible with the perception of these aids. They don't do their homework, as they don't do it early. With regard to dependents, I recently told you that there were 117,875 people who did not meet the various benefits, 23,500 above 2011. Of course, it increases the absolute numbers of people treated in the system, because it's a progressive implementation law. But what happens is, as Galician Union walks, the reality of aging and the needs of dependents is running. And this is more serious than ever in deficits in public residential squares. You can't make more promises here. You have to start fulfilling it, because another promise will discredit you. He's been promising seven residences for years, one for every urban area, but he's not fulfilling it. I'm going to finish by talking briefly about the insertion of Galicia into Spain. We are democrats and convinced autonomyists. We criticise at the same time the independentist bet, which takes us out of the common forms of coexistence, as well as the neo-centralist bet, that would erase Spain's diversity. Today the Government of Spain is something else, we are at the time of politics and not the closing of doors, we are at the time of seeding and not the harvest. After years of indifference, you have to regain coexistence or at least conlevance. And when the reform is opened, Galicia must be present, of course, to talk about competences, funding and symbols. We have to move forward in federalism and set up an offer that seduces those who want to leave today and convince them that Spain is a magnificent horizon for the future. But the main risk is that this competition lasts between the People's Party and the Citizens' Party, which now joins Vox, ends up taking its party to incompatible centralist positions with a majority of Spanish and also Greek society. The differentiation between nationalities and regions makes it possible to adjust the system to the different preferences for autonomy that exist in the territory, respect identity and self-government, with powerful equalization mechanisms that avoid discrimination between citizens. It's our future bet. But we also talk about relations with the Government of Spain. If we look back, we see that Rajoy's seven years in Moncloa were seven years of weak cows. I am not able to remember any transfers, no completed highways, nor any years in which the execution of the budgeted funds for AVE exceeds the 60% figure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u37	I cannot see that PLSAN has the railway connection it deserves, nor the reform of the financing model, and so on. No transfers, delays, cuts and excuses in infrastructure and nothing in funding. And today they woke up, invigorated by the new role of opposition, and now demands a Conference of Presidents, with an election call in Andalusia within two months?, after Mr. Rajoy had ignored the demands of the autonomous communities for so many years? [[Applause]] And in three months, the Government of Spain unlocked the debate in Congress on the transfer of AP-9, and we're going to do our best to get that transfer to complete. And the new Government is deeply committed to historical memory. There's a General Direction of Historical Memory that will do everything possible for Meirades' palace to return to the public domain, after Mr. Rajoy's veteran with a report from the state's lawyer — quickly done, very quickly — that this could happen. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u39	We're going to do our best to achieve it, because will is complete and commitment too. Seven years of hibernation cannot be compensated in such a short time. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, already mentioned, has no project, there is no objective to strategically direct the action of government, lacks a vision of Galicia and its government we said he was paralyzed. The spokesperson for the People's Party spoke in a full past of anesthesia to refer to the opposition. Opened the disease catalogue, "n" appears "narcolepsis", which is a morbid state characterized by an uncontrolled desire to sleep.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u40	Thank you, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u41	This uncontrolled sleepiness -- already finished -- just disappears when...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u42	You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u43	...they are in opposition, as now in relation to the Government of Spain. In two years democratic therapy will allow its complete healing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u44	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u45	At least I hope so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u46	Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Greece and Greece. Mr. Núñez, the people of Galicia don't deserve a president like you. When a Welshman enters an emergency, he deserves medical personnel to care for him, and not die after an hour without medical care; no one deserves this death, neither in Galicia nor anywhere in the world, Mr. President. On August 4, 2018, the Road CAP Emergency Service, with explicit non-compliance with at least two rules of the Health Council itself, did not have a second health team. This situation was propitiated by the Council itself, which, in apparent organizational chaos, was unable to provide the minimum health standards marked by the law itself. But it wasn't chaos. It's a planned policy that undermines working conditions to save costs, as if health were a company and as if citizens were merchandise. Mr. President, you saved 300 euros that afternoon for your company, but because of that savings, you ruined your merchandise. Galicia is not a company and the Greeks and the Greeks are not commodities, we are human beings. His savings this afternoon gave him 300 euros and cost him a human life. [[Applause]] For you politics are numbers. So there's the numbers: 300 euros, a human life. Does it seem fair to you the price that Galicia pays for its cuts? The financier, José Manuel Rey Brea, is not a number, he is a person, like any of us, who died as a result of a cruel and ruthless policy, of a politician who thinks in numbers and not in people. Tell us, Mr. President, has it been worth it? Was it worth two years away from politics in Galicia? His diseased obsession with his position in Rajoy's successor career led him to two thugs. On the one hand, to squeeze us, not the belt, but the rope in the neck, to drown us, to figure out as a champion of the most commonplace and indolent neoliberalism with those who suffer, adjusted with the authoritarianity of those who prefer to numb the press rather than listen to what they don't like. And on the other hand, leaving us to our fate, without a country project, renouncing, by means of a foolish affinity, claiming what corresponds to the Greek citizenship as a right in democratic, social and national terms. They were astronauts — we remember them well — their silences in terms of autonomic financing, rail, port connections and AP-9. Well, neither his submission to Madrid nor his authoritarian neoliberalism was in favour of the Court. You wanted to make Galicia your trampoline, but there was no water in the pool; all the water was in the photos that related it to the Golden Martial drug dealer. No, they didn't want it in the court, because that past was disgusting even for the People's Party and because in his political life he still has eight deaths of hepatitis C without burying, sick people who died in their homes while in the pharmacy there were drugs that could save them and you decided to let them die by delaying treatment so he wouldn't compute that year's deficit. No, they didn't want it in the court, because the People's Party wanted to escape their corrupt past and you claimed that past in this very House when you said that your party took advantage of the grey areas of law to fund itself. No, they weren't gray areas. What you were talking about were grey waters, the grey waters of your party, some cloacas that took you this year to the condemnation of the Champion case, to the people of your party, to the people of your own Government. No, you thought you were a whitebird of Spanish politics and the others saw the black crow in your politics. And, of course, if the PP doesn't deserve a president like that, neither does Galicia. [[Applause]] Now I'm going to tell you what happened in real Galicia during your absence. While you were in other things, Galicia lived in the weather. The real problems of real people are arresting above all three: the public cuts caused by their government, the precarious work and the scams of the receipts of many people who suffer at the end of the month. Let's start with the public cuts. When the recession started, you said it was necessary to reduce expenses. Feijóo arrived in Galicia and applied the toughest neoliberal recipe of austerity. On the way they left dependents without care; sick without medicine, without doctors and even without health centers; students without scholarships, without dining rooms and without schools; unemployed without training; and universities without researchers. Now, in 2018, national wealth is already the same as before the recession, but the cuts continue. And this shows that these life and rights cuts are not a necessity, they are pure ideology, which makes them especially reprehensible and their authors especially responsible, i.e. guilty. Let's make it clear: they do it because they want to, not because they have to. You could act differently, ending austerity, as Portugal is doing. There are three areas today where citizenship feels the sarcasm of its cuts: health, well-being and education. Let's start with health and well-being. The first duty of government is to ensure the life and health of people through a universal and equitable health system throughout the territory, well equipped and with health personnel. Well, nowadays, far from this, we live a process of marketing health: private companies come into our lives their business and they don't hesitate to leave and, apart from, to send their most selected Saudi traffickers to occupy positions of advisors and advisors, who from the public open the door to the robbery of multinationals who earn the cost of public resources. They are not advisers who are sometimes sitting here, they are true [commissors]. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this partsession shall be withdrawn.)]] Every euro of benefit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u48	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u49	Every euro of benefit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u50	No, no, sorry, Mr. Villares. Mr. Villares, that expression is inappropriate. There are no commissioners here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u51	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u52	That expression is therefore withdrawn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u53	Every euro for the benefit of private health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u54	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u55	...is a stolen euro for people's health. Why are there Povisa, Galaria or Medtec? Because they're companies that make profits what they had to pay for medical and healthcare professionals. Don't call them commissioners if you don't want them. Why do we have to share — we ask ourselves — our resources with private companies? Concertations and externalizations of diagnostic tests and surgical procedures are common at present. While our primary care, the real foundation of the health system, is decapitalized daily, with saturated consultations, with insufficient and overloaded professionals, with ratios far from international recommendations, with reduced budget, investment is redirected to an interested growing pharmaceutical expenditure. The waiting lists, on the other hand, are conceived as a business for the private by means of the Health Insurance Insurance Act. First they drown the public to then derive, and whoever doesn't want to go to private is penalized with more time to wait. [[Murmurs.]] However, the cuts are supplied by the will of a professional on foot in war who are used nakedly by a President Feijóo who compels them to work with superhuman pressure, and those who from En Marea and the whole society recognize their work. [[Applause]] And while all of this happens, social inequalities, territorial and gender inequalities increase in health. Women assume the health costs of unequal distribution of care load or suffer from incomprehension and neglect in certain diseases such as endometriosis. They are also a pasture for privatization of call plants, hospital cleaning, computer systems, management of clinical stories, technical support, the advisory system for the control of purchases of technological equipment and a long et cetera. And while -- I breathe, don't worry, to tell you what I have to tell you and the whole group -- we're still suffering... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u56	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u57	—it would be, that the story is serious—...the miseries of a hundred thousand Greeks and galleys who can't afford their medicine or forward money for prosthetics. This is not about territorial inequality in care, because without a 24-hour hemodynamic service in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense it's harder to survive an infarction in these provinces than in the Atlantic arc. On the other hand, senior residences are being employed under arrest as chronic hospitals, which private companies turn into a lucrative business, also with the help of the Union. Social unemployment once again of the Galician Union that extends to the absence of a true citizen income of social inclusion, or his inability or perhaps the unwillingness to heed once again all the rulings on the Risk. This morning Mr. President came by to tell us that they're going to make a decree so that several people with Risk can live in the same home. Congratulations, welcome to legality. Ten months later, after the sentences they sentenced Junta. Not bad. All surely to save a few euros at the expense of those who need it most. [[Applause]] The same misery that hinders evaluation to avoid treating dependent people. Education suspense also has its own name: clippings. Six hundred million euros less than in 2009. So it's understandable that we have 200 teachers less while increasing the money for the concert. This debate takes place, in addition, with the recent dismissal of Román Rodríguez as adviser of Education, in recognition of his failure at all levels, preceded — yes — a high level of conflict, closing educational centres, raising student ratios by class, with problems extended in the dining room services and even with deleted school transport lines. In college, we suffered a double precariousness: that of the labour market for recent graduates and that of the university professor, with a miserable 10% replenishment rate. There are no bags left to keep children and children living outside the house all year round. The only problem — not the main — is registration. And the Bologna Plan condemned the university and university students to pay expensive masters to complete the training, increasing inequality, masters that only illustrious leaders of the People's Party can pay without even going to class. Finally, the cuts were also systematic in public investment in university R & D. Between 2009 and 2017 they stopped spending 217 million euros, which now Feijóo buried in cement in Gaiás. The worst of all, ladies and gentlemen, is that the scratches of the cuts are accompanied by a double precariousness: work and social. One of the greatest misfortunes in life is working and not getting out of poverty. The other one is having no work and having to emigrate to earn bread. And today many Greek families live in these two situations. This morning Mr. Feijóo has forgotten several facts. From September he forgot to say that unemployment in Galicia rose twice as much as in the middle of the state and that nine out of every ten contracts were temporary. Among young people, 53% of total contracts are temporary, 28% are partial and unemployment exceeds 30%. Consequently, eight of ten girls and boys live in precarious conditions. He also forgot to say that there are one hundred and seventy-five thousand homes with some members on unemployment in Galicia and that seventy-seven thousand of those homes have all their members on unemployment. It was also forgotten to mention that thirty-five thousand households have no income, no salary or unemployment benefit, no pension, people who didn't deserve a single word for you this morning. Labour precariousness also brings social precariousness. During the recession, those who were unemployed and have now found work are charged by the coldhouse of 30% less. Being self-sufficient means being precarious. This morning Feijóo encouraged new people to start work — not self-employed, but self-employed — when today globally the self-employed people of our country are entering half of the wage classes. [[Murmurs.]] With this situation in the Greek families, it is no wonder the conclusion laid down by the IGE data: that 40% of the homes in Galicia arrive at the end of the month with difficulty or much difficulty and that two out of ten of the Greeks are at risk of poverty. And while people struggle to arrive at the end of the month, for not leaving anyone from the house out of the table or out of the house, what were Mr. Núñez's strategies this year? He explained this morning: sandwich tourism and trick workers and stoppers. The economic strategy of the Galician Union for job creation is currently based on tourism. They create the Tourism Council to rank the Santiago Road, with an economic model based on precariousness, seasonality and low added value. Point. So far, the Government's industrial and economic policy. This is what we heard this morning. [[Applause]] Together, she spends more resources announcing employment policies than executing them. Nuñez deceives people into believing that there are employment promotion policies and labour market institutions. In total, he was assigned to this game 305 million last year, of which only 57% were executed; i.e., there were 132 million left without spending. Now go up to the replica and explain yourself. Explain, Mr. Núñez, because he owes you a lot of explanations to the stops, to the self-employed and to the youth he had to emigrate while you were with his money. And finally — I do not want to forget — the lack of social dialogue leads to work insecurity. When are you going to meet with unions and employers to talk about employment? Cuts, precariousness, but, besides, on a day-to-day basis, massive scams. Mr. Núñez, surely, as you live outside of the reality of Greece, when he arrives at the end of the month, he doesn't know how many letters come to the mailboxes of normal people. Yes, now it's about envelopes, but don't get nervous, which aren't those that come to the leaders of your party. We're going to talk about another type of corruption: institutional corruption, of which you are a part, which legalizes that month by month large multinational companies can stamp us out, shut us down, swindle, sit down, steal with total rejection, while you look to the other side. I'm talking about abusive bills, receipts that, usually domiciled, will tell us at the end of the month, and that are receipts for basic services, because today it's no luxury to have electric light in the house, no gas oil, no natural gas or butane gas. And yes, we have no freedom to hire them, because today no one wants to exercise the freedom to go cold or to be incommunicado. We are obliged to look for them in a market that is dominated by a monopoly or a oligopolie of private companies. Since these companies don't compete with each other, but they're paying prices on the rise, we have to pay abusive receipts for services that are no luxury today. Even though all the people who are listening to us know perfectly that I'm talking to them, let me illustrate it with three examples: electricity has risen by 35% in the last year; butane, 30% in the last two years; and gas oil, by 35% in the last three years, without the Galician Institute of Consumption and Competition doing anything to investigate the prices that distort competition in essential services that come to us every month. A scam, by the way, allowed by some governments that must complement each other with two key elements: the housing and what we pay for by being owners of real estate. The increase in housing, both in property and in rental, prevents young people from becoming emancipated. The data is also eloquent about price escalation in rental. Between June 2017 and June 2018 there was a 13% increase in the city of Coruña, 12% in Santiago, almost 14% in Lugo and almost 10% in Vigo and Ourense. By the way, you were talking about defeats this morning. Well, you know, according to official data from the General Council of the Judiciary, they went up last year in Galicia by 4.2%, while they went down to the state as a whole. Vivenda, and housing accompanied by cadastrazo. A real economic defeat is taking place in families living in rural and rural areas. They make us pay as if we were big businessmen just having a handkerchief to keep the wood. Mr President, by way of conclusion, the cuts, precariousness and complicity with the massive scams cause social inequality, territorial imbalance, loss of opportunity and, above all, lack of future expectations for the younger people. In short, despair. We have a hard-working people, an orphan of government who will give you a hand. That's why we don't think Galicia deserves a president like you. Mr. Núñez, these two years of untimely discovery have not only left their social insensitivity but also their lack of country project and their lack of democratic values. Galicia today lacks a strategic horizon because it has ahead of a president who has been walking for two years in the district of Salamanca, hanging himself, with his feet, with his heart and head far from this land, a land that does not tread, but which lets others trample. That's why a year ago he passed the Environmental Predation Act, so that those from outside come to erupt our natural resources, because the rule didn't apply either to create jobs or implement industry, or to improve R & D, it only served to suppress environmental controls and public guarantees. The desertification that causes the eucalyptus monocultures is found at the head of the rivers, which retain less water and cause periods of drought, which then result in water depletion in cities like Vigo. In general, for you, water matters little; so the quality of its purification is so low in Galicia and the integral sanitation of rivers never comes. The environment, if you wanted, would be profitable, and the laughs of Burgo and Ferrol could be a source of employment today and not dizzy of their incompetence. The climate has changed, the climate has changed, and we are the first CO2 emitters without their government being worrying about the least of the energy transition or the decarbonization of the economy. It's a model that keeps trying to burn. That's why you're driving the road on the railroad. He didn't tell us this morning about the train, which could lead us to work every day in the metropolitan areas, join the entire Atlantic and Cantabrian coast, which could communicate The Coruña with Lugo and Lugo with Ourense; or that he could put in half an hour Vigo de Porto. Sustainable mobility was the main prejudiced precisely by the blockade of the People's Party in the metropolitan areas of Vigo and Coruña. But also other services, such as the collection of waste, the water or the public student, which could be negotiated by the wholesaler or even give rise to the creation of public enterprises, as happened this year in Barcelona. The sectarian performance of the People's Party where there was no government was also evidenced by the intention of destroying the coastal facade of the port of Coruña to serve the interests of real estate speculation; the same thing they did in Lugo when the same day of the censorship motion canceled the convention for the urban transformation of the neighborhood of the residence. And he's still here this morning talking to us about the neighborhood of the residence. Go back and explain the cancellation of that agreement. They only finance works if it seems to them to be reporting a party success, as King Varela and Bea Mato did, using the position for their personal promotion. Yes, ma'am. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The legacy of the ceased environmental advisor remains Sogama, a waste management model based on incineration, which must be more "molon" — in the opinion of the former councillor — than to reduce, recycle and replace. It's normal, it's logical that it should be this way because seeing them to you is clearly not all recyclable. [[Murmurs.]] In Galicia fire is a problem for people, but it's a business for friends. To direct public policies to extinction rather than prevention makes it compensable for the mountain to burn because there are companies that get the benefits of the fire. As long as a company sees business burning mountains and houses, [the sparks will be at the service of the heartless, not piromanos or terrorists—which the Prosecutor's Office has already told them—but friends of those who rule us today]. [[Words withdrawn by Mr. Villares Naveira]] Last Sunday, all Galicia had breath when she saw Mondariz burning. Avia's carballeda, Chandebrit and Vigo came back to our heads, and the four people died at our hearts. The only ones who ignored the success were you. A year later, the same incompetence: the air media arrived on Sunday afternoon and bad, there was no coordination of troops and the Town Hall did not have an institutional telephone line to be attended to for information. His only policy is still waiting for it to rain. It is pathetic, Mr President and Mr Vice-President. [[Murmurs.]] But Galicia is not just a territory. If anything justifies the existence of this very Parliament, it is our national character. We are more than people, more than territory and more than landscape, we are a human community that historically shared luck in politics and in culture and - most importantly - that at present shows its citizen will to build a project of solidarity in common. We recognize ourselves equal and united by emotional and rational values. We are finally aware that we are a nation. Unfortunately, during the last few years the attacks on our political autonomy have been constant, and during that time the President of the Galician Union, instead of defending us, devoted himself to hiding and hiding his head in front of Madrid. There are three injustices that remain in political impunity: the first, the denial of a fair financing system that enables us to meet the needs of our citizens properly; the second, the lack of investments committed to Galicia, which since 2014 have amounted to nearly €2.300 million; and the third, the recentralizing measures, with the excuse of the principles of the containment of expenditure and market unity, which have cut our own competences or which have been emptied of content. Mr. Núñez, have you been worth the affinity these years? Let's make it clear, has political cowardice been worth it? Is this dumb president who deserves Galicia? We think, frankly, no. In addition to his absence and his country project, the president is not well-recovered at times with democratic values. That's why it's no wonder that, despite the feminist historic strike of 8 March, the Board does not react except to prohibit the strike, which is why it was condemned by the High Court of Justice. In fact, Mr. Feijóo continues to legitimize the most cuckold, ranciful and macho behaviors within the ranks of his party. I'll give you an example per province. [[Applause]] Last week, the mayor of Vilanova, in Pontevedra, would be allowed to call the president of the Deputy, without you making him resign or withdraw his support. The Mayor of Palas continues with the support of the People's Party after being sentenced for harassment. The mayor of Noia — the People's Party — made fun of March 8 with his macho jokes. And, of course, he follows in his post of emperor I will turn him [thunder] Baltar II. Here you have the opportunity, Mr. Núñez, to reply to this rostrum and stand in these four cases. What are your values, Mr. Núñez? [[Murmurs.]] Are you equal? Are you on the side of the machos and the bullies or the women's side of our country? The workers and workers at CRTVG are on their way on 20 black Fridays, protest days in which they denounce the manipulation they are subjected to and which prevents them from informing about the social reality that Galicia lives when it comes to, yes, reflecting political plurality or social discontent with our Government. This situation is denounced by the brave and professional braves who defend our freedoms, so that their [sicaries] on Galician Radio-Television pursue them with arbitrary sanctioning files, as they did with Tati Moyano. [[Word withdrawn by Mr. Villares Naveira]] [[Applause]] The most authoritarian spell has become a means of communication in a way of manipulation in the style of the Russian government, which is consistent, of course, with the most reactionary line marked by its new head of rows, Pablo Casado, aligned with a classical, xenophobic and negating speech of our social, cultural and, of course, linguistic reality. Language, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Toni Cantó, in the name of Citizens, pointed at our tongue and once again the PP pulled out the face and shot. You said this morning that you did not agree with the position of Citizens and, however, 12 MEPs from the European Parliament voted in favour of the proposal to abolish the co-feficiality of Greek in our country. They should be fulminously or politically unauthorized by you, not only for making the ridiculous — passing by, by the way, why no one in Galicia speaks Spanish — but also for betrayal to Galicia that this means. [[Applause]] The people who speak Spanish in Galicia don't want them to annihilate the language of their neighbors; they listen with affection to the Greek and respect those who speak it, and bilingual conversations are part of our social reality. So why would they deny us those who speak Spanish and speak Greek that we have the same rights? It's a secret to voices that Feijóo has a problem with Galician language and culture. But I'm not a secret to his lies either. [[Murmurs.]] Now, last week's success during the arrival of the last lesson of the master in Galicia is something we will not forget. The Welsh Guernica depacked gave rise to an intervention by you, in which you had the undoubted to omit in the explanation of the canvas that the person who was lying on the floor had been killed. And, of course, he didn't mean that Castelao portrayed the master with Alexander Bóveda's face, a Greek martyr for the antonymosis of the fascist uprising of the 36. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijó, we were few people there. But those of us who were next to him saw perfectly the papers he had, as they were perfectly underlined and noted. And that's why we know that this was not a forgetfulness, it was a deliberate omission and a conscious manipulation of our memory and history, something that is absolutely unacceptable. [It will be because some of you feel like children of those who shot the Boveda] [[Words withdrawn by Mr. Villares Naveira]] [[Strong murmurers.]] These are their democratic values: dismemberment, impunity and forgetfulness of walks. No, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Galicia's democratic memory doesn't deserve a president like you. [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Núñez, we live in a political era in which citizenship repudiates corrupt and clientish behaviors, and here too you leave much to wish for. I'm going to illustrate this situation with two cases 100 percent Welsh, without addressing the Gürtel case. At the beginning of the year, the case "campion" ended with a PP deputy and two high-ranking government officials convicted of prevarication and misrepresentation, under his mandate! And, at the end of May, a strong ruling in the well-known case "validator" brought to light a whole plot of institutional corruption and trafficking of influence used by the People's Miracles Otero, the People's Valor on a proposal from the PP, to place in the Administration Manuel Fraga's niece — and expressly endorsed by you in this House —. Are these your values, Mr. Feijóo? No, Galicia doesn't deserve a president like that! Fortunately, all the values missing from our president have a citizenship that does not qualify to live under the popular boot. In fact, in the last year, we have experienced a whole tide of social mobilizations of great intensity, of a living civil society; invisible by Feijóo's TV, yes, but that exists, that denounces and does not comply. We don't comply, and that's why many and many Greeks in February went out to the streets with SOS Sanidad Pública to denounce the cuts and privatizations of health; on 8 March we believe in equality we paralyze the country because the Galician society is feminist and does not allow either patriarchal justice or macho killings or wage slots; in April thousands of people went out to the streets to refuse the Touro mine in defense of life, water, rivers and the Arousa River; the first of May thousands of people, with class unions, went out to the streets to defend the right to a decent job; in June today's pensioners and retirees tomorrow were given their hand demanding a system of decent pensions; in September thousands of mothers and parents mobilized to defend a quality education in Brión, in Allariz, in Seixalbo, in Seixalbo, in Orders, in Sancées, in Sancée, in Sancado, in Sancée. But the workers and public service workers were also mobilized sectorally, demanding quality in justice, in the rural environment, in the CRTVG, in the CAP on the foot of war or in the 061. And also the neighborhood, especially that of Tui, that after an explosion of guilt they had to stop that the Board did not compensate them for 100 percent of the value of their dwelling. And they're going to have to pay from their pocket more than 25% of the damage to their houses after they've run out of anything. And this is indecent, Mr. President! [[Applause]] I don't want to forget at this point about those who, feeling the violence of their anti-social policies and without a country project, have exercised their right to rebel in the most extreme and painful forms of life. The first is immigration. Since your governor gave you a door, I'm leaving Galicia, 270,000 people; almost half of them under 35 years of age. Secondly, demographic implosion. Children prefer not to be born in Galicia than to be born under their government. Of course! [[Laughter]] Where are the missing children and the missing children in the country? [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u58	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u59	They're being born abroad of those 145,000 girls you sent to emigration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u60	Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u61	...no return letter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u62	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u63	And finally — they don't laugh that the story is sad —
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u64	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u65	...there is an uncomfortable truth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u66	Quiet, please! Then I have to talk. Quiet. I warn you! [[Murmurs.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u67	There's an uncomfortable truth that no government wants to face. How many people didn't endure the pressure of the destructuring of their lives during the recession and desperately chose to commit suicide? The suicide ratio in the state is 7.1 per 100,000 inhabitants; in Galicia the ratio rises to 12, almost 1 suicide per day in Galicia. And without reaching this extreme, how many psychological diseases?, how many treatments for anxiety?, how many family breakdowns? [[Murmurs.]] No, Mr. Núñez, we don't deserve a government that causes exodus, demographic implosion or suicide. Neither you nor anyone else has the right to make our lives bitter. Mr. Núñez, as you can see, neither you nor your Government are in any way like today's Greek society. The current Galician, today's Galician, the Galician is feminist, it's sustainable, it's solidarity with its older men and girls, it's social, it's brave, it's proud of its public professionals and its public services. She's hardworking and worthy of decent wages, and proud to have a language and culture of hers. Today's Galicia is democratic, cooperative, fraternal and egalitarian. And now look, look in the mirror, Mr. President. [[Strong murmurers.]] You don't look like Galicia today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u68	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u69	I would like to address myself now, at this final stage of the intervention, to the whole of the citizenship of Galicia, all of it, including all those people who voted for the People's Party and who today is tasteful, disappointed and even ashamed of everything that you are hearing. [[Murmurs.]] These feelings are normal, a vote of good faith and trusts that yours will not commit all the troops that are being counted here, perhaps many of them living in their own flesh. I want to tell you all, ever since In Marea, that we are aware that you are part of this great social majority...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u70	Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u71	...which seeks an alternative that stops this disincentive, this indolence with the suffering of so many dear people. Last September, In Marea, PSOE and BNG we reached an agreement to force a research commission on health cuts that investigates and exaggerates political responsibilities for the damage caused. We are diverse forces, but we agree around the defense of people's lives and health. And from En Marea we are ready and able to do it again, expanding cooperation in defense of the common good, seeking new agreements to expand public freedoms, broaden social rights and make us progress collectively. Those majority ideas are those that must articulate an alternative that must be, by force, plural and cooperative. Because it is different society, and yet it unites to defend democratic, social and national values. He made it, and the People's Party already represents the past, and that's why from En Marea we want to offer a new citizen treatment based on social justice, an alternative to which the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block and where they feel recognized so many and so many people who just want their government to think about them and their well-being when making decisions. This proposal for a social contract has three parts: The first is that we can agree on proposals for amendments to the budgets of the 2019 Galician Union to increase investment in proportion to GDP in terms similar to the 2009 budgets in the field of equality and fight against violence, education, well-being and health. The second part, to agree on the progressive demerchantization of essential basic goods for our society. We must prevent large companies, mostly multinationals and investment funds, from doing business at the expense of our lives, our health and our rights. We believe there is a broad social consensus about the following goods: First of all, water. All water cycle management should be strictly public, as well as universal access. There is a social consensus around health. Concerts with privates don't save money, they're ruinous, as shown by Povervisa's situation or the management of the debt of Álvaro Cunqueiro, in addition to the pirate treatment of our medical data. There's consensus around education. Nor can money be diverted to the concert — much less to the one that segregates by sex — or that multinationals do business with school lunchers. There's consensus on pensions. The European Union's claim to end the public pension system to force private systems will involve higher contributions for lower benefits. Everything so that, by the way, others are left with the effort of the work of all our lives. There is, above all, consensus in Galicia about the prevention and extinction of forest fires. Galicia will burn as long as there are companies that benefit from the fire. Neither the air media nor fire stations can be private. The fire prevention and fighting service in Galicia must be unique and public. Finally, we believe there is social consensus around social services. Attention to seniors and dependents cannot be a business that works at the expense of pensioners' pensions and family effort. The third part of this social contract should be a social statutory reform. In view of the obsolescence of an autonomous status which does not include a letter of social rights for the Welsh and the Greek, from En Marea we want to acquire and share the commitment to establish in basic social law, as binding in relation to the autonomous public power, the following goods: water, access to a decent housing and a minimum of vital income and energy available in each home.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u73	I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not proposing to you an economic pact, it is a pact around shared social values, based on social solidarity, cooperation and environmental sustainability, which have Galicia as a natural reference space and seek a fairer distribution of wealth that generates the whole country. Because we don't want to be a big company, we want to look more like a big family, because we want to put politics to the service of real people, because we never want to be treated as numbers again, but as people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u74	The law in the gallery says what you say, Mr. Beers, you can't applaud, you know it well. Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! Silence, please, silence! Mr. Villares, I'm going to ask you to withdraw... silence, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm going to ask you to remove certain expressions. I'll read them. One: "Those who now walk with sparks are friends of those who rule today." Two, which refers to the President of the House of Ourenses as an "appetizer". Parliamentary immunity is no good for this. Third: "You have the killers." There are no hit men here. Last: "Some of you feel like children who shot at the Boveda." Do you take these expressions away? I'm sorry, are you taking them off? [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Give a voice to Mr. Villares' chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u75	If they offend the decoration of the House, I remove all expressions except Baltar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u76	Well, I'll take it back and call it in order. [[Words are spoken from the public gallery.]] Please! Please! Please, you know what the rules on the rostrums are. They're being withdrawn. Those expressions are withdrawn. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I've been reading a little book for some time, thanks to a recommendation published by the author of the Greek author Manuel Rivas by Eric Jarosinski. The book is entitled Nein. A manifesto. It's a collection of twits and aphorisms, and it starts by saying, "Without wheels, the world today has only two problems. The first is the world, the second is today. But there's a third if we count tomorrow." I have remembered this aphorism — to use this spark of lucidity, as Manolo Rivas calls it — to focus on the intervention of those who have the honour for the sixth consecutive time to represent the majority group of the House in the debate on the state of autonomy, a debate that should focus on the political situation of the country. And, indeed, we cannot speak of Galicia's political situation without contextualizing it in the world, without contextualized today, in the present, and without losing sight that in the end the objective of this debate is to make a good diagnosis of how things are to be able to make proposals — that we will vote on Thursday — to build among all a better Galicia. It is true that since 2011, that context, that world that surrounds us, has not changed as much as in the last 12 months since the debate in the state of Autonomy. First of all, this debate coincides with the commemoration of the 40th anniversary of the Spanish Constitution, the first constitution of our contemporary history, which has been the result of a broad consensus, which is fully democratic and has allowed Spanish society to progress in human rights and human rights, social welfare and self-government of nationalities like Galicia as never before in the last two centuries. It's a text that unfortunately some people question or directly transgress. Secondly, ten years have been spent since the beginning of the worst economic crisis that Spain suffered in the 20th century; a crisis that is fortunately overcome but which has left obvious sequels in society that it is necessary to continue to solve; a crisis that we all know was in financial origin and which soon affected the real economy, which has affected very especially the countries that, like Spain, have not taken advantage of the previous stage of expansion to modernise their productive base, which have been encountered with a huge external debt — fundamentally private — and which, as a result of the entry into force of the euro, which has driven the real estate bubble and has in turn reinforced the financial crisis, has left evidence not only to governments little predictors but also to some of our most important institutions, such as the Banco de España. This was just the situation that the current president of the Union and the Galician People's Party found in March 2009, when the consequences of that economic crisis began to be felt by citizenship. For example, the unemployment rate grew at a rate of 50 000 unemployed per year — in the year we arrived in the Government — the fall in public income was 2,200 million over what was expected in the budgets of the years 2008 and 2009. That was the context we found. Thirdly, this debate takes place four months after the election of Pedro Sánchez as President of the Government of Spain; which is a significant political change because there are several issues that make it at least a new situation. First of all, because this motion of censure, legitimate and constitutional, is the first that triumphs over the forty years that we have been democratic, but it is also the first time that allows us to govern a party, for the first time, which is not the majority group of Congress. Secondly, because he did so without providing a detailed alternative government program, which results in great uncertainty about the objectives of government action. An uncertainty which is increasing by the continued corrections of the Government itself, which date from the commitment made on the same day of the debate, the only one that took place in the debate, which was to convene elections, to labour reform, to the sustainability of pensions, to compliance with the deficit path, to taxes and taxation, or even to the failure to comply with international contracts which, in the case of Galicia, guarantee and guarantee the burden of work for our shipyards. And it's also new because it's the first time that a motion of censure and someone who arrives in the Government is supported by political forces that are pushing from other constitutional public institutions, namely Catalans, a subversion of constitutional order and demanding, on such matters as the support for budgets, such as self-determination referendums or the request to the Government simply to interfere in the autonomy and independence of the judiciary. There have certainly been more changes in our world in the last year. It has been just a year since the Socialist Party in Galicia elected its new leader, Professor Gonzalo Caballero — who, by the way, I don't know if he's been here but I've been with him this morning—; a year in which he hasn't taken advantage of himself to join the institutional life—even if he just announced that he will soon do so— leaving, in my opinion and in my regret, in a position, we're going to say, uncomfortable to those who come playing their roles faithfully to his group in this legislation. Even though he certainly proved that he didn't stay, as he says the president is at night. In the past year, the main opposition group, The Tide, continued — and in this we cannot talk about many new developments — with the construction of its space — without much success. And, in view of the proliferation of candidates to lead the project, they have difficulty finding a director or director of the construction work that is accepted by at least a majority. And they're still immersed in a urn oven -- and I'm telling you right -- In this case, Greek society can see that assembling democracy is a less operational model than the representative — at least for the management of the common — when it is seen that those who believe in it are unable to agree in their own structure, in their own organization, or in their leadership. In the last year, Galician society has also been able to see how forms at BNG have evolved in a way that is inversely proportional to its underlying political position. This force brings us over and over again — and despite the rational evidence against it — the same proposals put forward by the Galician society in 1977: constitutional bases and economic nationalization, a coupon that can cost Galicia EUR 1 billion a year — which gives it equal — or an electric tariff that was shown in the committee which was created in this Parliament which would cost Galicia EUR 160 million a year. He doesn't care. Because they're repetitive, they're even repetitive in the government assessment. I want to quote an old block spokesperson who said in this House, referring to the Government, that the balance sheet was very little in health, poor in education, non-existent in the environment, null in the presidency and justice, negative in work, invisible in economy and child in fishing. That's what a spokesperson from the Bloc said years ago. The only nice thing about it is that it was from the two-party government. [[Applause]] When we see this panorama and we see everything at once and all together and we just imagine the government that could have gone out of such a grouping, because for us, we realize that we are part of a parliamentary majority that gives us a lot of responsibility, the same one that has deposited in us most of the Greeks and the Greeks, to whom we again thank their repeated trust and support. And today we also see, Mr President, the enormous disappointment in which all the groups agree that you continue to face Galicia by fulfilling your commitment to 2020. [[Applause]] There have also been changes in most of the government, and I want to mention the most painful of them all: last May 21 our colleague Carlos López Crespo, who has been with us in Parliament for a short time. But he enjoyed it, as did we from his company, his example of loyalty and work committed to his neighbours of Outes, of Barba and of Galicia all. And that's why we remember him with esteem and respect. And I take it once again to thank the condolences that all members of this chamber have moved to their family and to the Popular Parliamentary Group. [[Applause]] There were also happier changes in the group. For example, our colleague José González has been appointed as advisor to the rural environment to give a new impetus to primary sector policy, following the excellent management developed by Ánxeles Vázquez; he manages that he assumes new environmental responsibilities, which will have to be coordinated in addition to the rural environment. Mr Villares, these are the changes in the groups, because we do not stop Members. You are the one who should know better what it takes to stop a Member, even when one wants to stop it. We don't stop Members. [[Applause]] All these changes, indeed, have already moved forward in the Government's priorities, in a context of strengthening sustainable development both environmentally and economically; strengthening social policies; making a binomy culture-tourism, which are happily united in the coming Xacobeo Year, in an event that we hope will be a great opportunity for Galicia; strengthening Galicia's mobility, housing and connectivity; giving them continuity to economic policies that are allowing Galicia to grow, create jobs and do it in a more balanced and sustainable way than in the past. In short, changes that give a new reformist impulse to the action of the Government, of which today the President has just given his speech new evidence. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party of Galicia, fundamentally, is a reformist party that wants to preserve good and change what doesn't work; a party of conservative, democratic liberal ideology, which will always defend the respect and dignity of the person, freedom and equality of opportunities as well as redistributive. Finally, a force that wants to address the future to achieve goals, without repeating mistakes from the past and with realistic proposals adapted to reality. And when we talk about mistakes from the past, among them are those from the past of historical memory, those from the past that we all must remember to never repeat. And I mean, we're especially offended by the fact -- and thank you for taking the words away -- that in a group where two people who are fighting two families who were retaliationed by the same people who killed the Boveda, if you insinuate any sort of conviviality with fascist killers during the Civil War and after. [[Applause]] Certainly, being reformist makes us a little boring, but Jarosinski says in his tweet, "Twelfths of Truncated Dreams," that there's some bad news for Utopians. The news is, dreams don't come true. And there's even worse, which is when their dreams come true. We, unfortunately, are not utopian, what we want to do is work day by day and do well, and not promise the Golden and then have management like we see in some areas, as in the social, those who promised to fix everything as soon as they arrived at the municipal governments. I was saying at the beginning of my intervention that the context is marked by three major changes that generate the three major problems that most of us want to solve: In the economic sphere, employment and wages, which, despite their constant recovery, still have a lot to go on. A process of job creation and wage improvement which, in recent months, can also be affected by signs of slowdown, to which we must respond properly and, above all, in the light of the experience of the crisis. The second problem is in the social field and as a result of the economic problem. The main challenge is equality. The crisis has left many people on the margins of social exclusion, and we cannot afford it. And in the political sphere — the third problem — the uncertainties and instability that have been generated in recent times, and in particular in the last year, also demand an adequate response to the risks facing our constitutional system, and hence, and generally around democracy. Let us first look at the economic situation, both in general and in particular in the general economy. In the economic field, I believe — to give two facts — that we must draw on two facts which are evident and perfectly verifiable: First of all, what is true is that we have, at the time of the motion of censure, three years of GDP growth, which reaches its historic peak at the end of 2017; four years of job creation, from 17.3 million employees to 19 million at the end of 2017 — a creation of nearly half a million jobs a year — and thus reducing these four years ten points unemployment, from 26% to 16%. And Galicia followed the same path, even increased. Thus, on this path per capita GDP reached its historic peak in Galicia in 2017, from 21,800 euros in 2008 to 22,600 euros in the last year. That's why we also achieved our highest level of convergence in relation to the Spanish media and significantly improved position among the autonomous communities, so that we can say it's historical. We left in the year 2000 being the third lowest income community and now we're in the tenth. Then they had only the lowest income Andalucia and Extremadura, and since the year 2000 we have surpassed Castile-A Mancha, Canary Islands, Murcia, Asturias and Valencia — these last two in the period 2017-2018—. This best behaviour in Galicia has allowed it to be the autonomous community which has further increased its convergence in terms of GDP per capita in purchasing power parity with regard to the European average, when Spain's crisis set has lost three points of convergence. And we started 2018 with the best prospects: the largest nominal GDP increase in history in the first quarter, 3.7%; an annual increase of 3.1%, when Spain grew to 3%; and with all public bodies — Airef — or private — BBVA Research, Ceprede, Afforestation and others — wishing to maintain this strong growth rate, always above Spain — around 2.8%. Although in terms of employment we have not recovered, in terms of EPA, the occupied population prior to the crisis, the fact is that this is primarily due to the transformation of our productive structure, which is not so conditioned by the weight that has reached the construction with the real estate bubble. As can be seen in the IGE's annual economic accounts, over the past eight years, the weight of the gross value added of the primary sector has grown from 4.3 % to 4.7 %; from the service sector, which increased from 60,5 % to 63.6%; slightly decreased the value of the industry, from 16.8% to 16.4%; and significantly the value of the construction, from 9.5% to 6%, which in turn explains the behaviour of the labour market. In relation to wages, after significantly rising above productivity during the pre-crisis phase, in recent months, a recovery begins to be appreciated, with inter-annual increases — as Monitor Adecco said — of 1.9%, making the average wage in Galicia, still low in the Spanish average, reaching its peak since there are statistical series on it. In particular, EUR 1,483 per month, at the end of last August. However, the Spanish economy and also the Galician economy are beginning to show symptoms of a slight slowdown. There are external reasons, of course there are: the protectionist wars initiated by Trump and Brexit generate uncertainties; it is rising the price of energy, oil and more of gas, of which Spain is especially dependent; and it is predictable a rise in interest rates because the cost of money by the European Central Bank will be tightened, which can hinder investment and consumption, indeed. But there are also uncertainties generated inside, particularly those arising from the political situation and the uncertainty that generates the current Spanish political situation. Firstly, because of the absence of budgets and the possible difficulty in getting them forward with only eighty-four Members of the 300 Members of Parliament, and while meeting the demands of Podemos and the demands of the European Union. The difficulty of approving budgets from minority governments is evident in the last report by the Galician Localis Network: "Since 2015 the municipal political fragmentation has made only 30% of the Greek municipalities approve their average accounts throughout the period before the end of the year." Which marks 30%; more or less the possibilities I give Mr. Sánchez's Government to approve the general accounts of the State. The succession of contradictory statements between ministers and what some ministers say in Spain and Germany, where they will defend austerity, do not encourage optimism. And even less if we take care of some of the balloon probes that are launched to prevent economic downturn and continue to promote job creation: When consumption is weakened, it must be taxed with more taxes, such as diesel, which affects, by the way, 85% of the Greek consumers and affects all prices when it comes to transport. When investment is weakened, more companies need to be recorded to stop buying shares. And when debt is, according to most economists, a problem that only with the rise of the types of interest could get worse even more, you have to open the hand of the deficit, that is, you owe yourself more, that is, above all what is done to pay social expenses or pensions, because the truth is, with that, you get even more concerned; you owe yourself to spend current expenditure, even if it is in wages of people who dedicate themselves to social welfare. Well, I actually didn't trust you to listen to some of these issues in this debate. But it's like saying Galicia didn't break up, but it didn't break up any autonomous community. They didn't break a lot of autonomous communities because the state rescued them by opening them a line of credit. Because, in fact, it was irresponsible to let autonomous communities break down by not financing on the market. And Galicia didn't need that rescue which prevented the breakdown in other autonomous communities. There are certainly reasons for concern. In this context, the fact that in this parliament we are going to approve the spending ceiling, the Government is going to approve the budgets and the House is going to vote on them in time to become surprisingly news, when what is news is just the opposite. Mrs Pontón, we approved the budgets without knowing the state budgets, but it was that before the government was serious and, as the president said this morning, it was ahead of the joints. In this case they gave a delivery to the account where 200 million euros from the VAT are missing. And about that -- as the president said this morning, and he told him often; therefore, you, before making some statements, should take into account all that was said -- we still don't know about these 200 million euros that the minister promised he would arrange for all the autonomous communities, also for Galicia, and at the moment we don't know anything yet. So that's what explains that the spending ceiling comes when it comes, and also explains the fact that we will meet the President's request this morning. And I announce that my group will sign, at the end of this debate tomorrow, a request of extraordinary plenary session, according to which it marks the Rules of Procedure, in regular session, so that next week we will be able to approve the expenditure ceiling, which will in turn allow it to be adopted by date, in order to be able to discuss the budgets of Galicia in this Chamber. [[Applause]] Budgets have already been said to continue to reduce debt in proportion to GDP. And so much if you talked about the debt that I want to remind you again — and I'm going to give you a fact that I didn't give you here — that we assumed 2,200 million euros, which were in the budget, which were spent in the years 2008 and 2009 — budgets that approved the Block, in addition to this case — and that we are returning. From this obeisance that you say that you have the autonomous community, do you know how much it corresponds exclusively to the return of those negative liquidations that the socialist government has turned us to? Well, it's 1,071 million euros. So, at least be a little careful when you talk about these issues, because it was your Government who owed himself for more than 2,200 million euros without any paper. The socialist government demanded it back in five years, and we're paying it now, despite the fact that due to the crisis, the government has had a lot less income. [[Applause]] That Galicia now has better economic foundations than the Spanish economy, that we have a President and a majority of Parliament that allow the public accounts to be approved within their term and that they will continue to support consumption — especially of people who have the most need — and investment with a predictable fiscal policy, and that, ultimately, economic and budgetary stability is a good news. We certainly have better foundations. That makes it clear both the trade balance and the exports, which are mainly to Europe, which also protects us a little from Mr Trump's protectionist shuttles, and we are increasing — as has been acknowledged earlier — the productivity of the Greek economy. Take note of whether it is important to bring the budgets that last weekend Mayor Colau of Barcelona called for a pact to approve budgets and guarantee minimum services, and asked for responsibility for the institutions to operate at the three levels: state, autonomous and municipal. He made these statements in connection with Mr. Tora's ultimatum. But it would be good for the opposition in this chamber to take good note of what Mrs. Colau said or, at least, to take some note. And we move on to the second big problem that we want and must address: the deterioration of equality as a result of the crisis. And I think it's also convenient to start with two precisions, with two data that are hardly rebutable. First, as a previous fact, I would like to recall that, as the admiring German teacher Antón Costas says, we believe that against inequality we must fight "for land, sea and air", for its harmful effects on economic growth itself and social justice. By land, with better redistributive policies; by sea, with better functioning of competitive markets; and by air, with greater awareness of those responsible in general in the business world. And the two precisions: The first is the state of inequality in Galicia. As you know, or you should know who cares about equality, at the academic level, and also at the level of the entities working on this issue, to know the degree of inequality in a society, two indices are used: The first is Gini's index, which is a coefficient that gives a zero value to the perfect equality society and a value one to the perfect inequality. So the closer you get to zero means that society is more egalitarian and, when it's closer to one, it's more unequal. Well, Gini's indicator is in Galicia exactly the same in 2016 as it was in 2008, when it ruled the left, specifically in 0.27. It is true that it reached a peak of 0.29 in the years 2013 and 2015, but we are already in the pre-crisis situation in 2016, which is the last known data. And it's always far from the European Union average: 0.31, and Spain's, where there's the most inequality: 0.34. And if you take the other index that is used, the S80/S20, which compares or relates the income of the 20% richest population to the poorest 20%, so the lower the ratio means that there is a more equal society, the data is for Galicia 4.2, for the EU27, 5.2 and for Spain 6.6. Or the same thing: Galicia is more equal than the European average, exceeding countries like Germany and Ireland, and much more than the whole of Spain, whatever index we use. The second precision has to do with the factors that affect inequality. The scientific evidence available tells us that the main factor is unemployment, and in particular the functioning of the labour market in which self-employed people are affected; that transfers, and particularly pensions, have a huge redistributive effect; and that, instead, fiscal progression has a smaller effect, and in any case a much smaller effect than the incorporation into the income of households of the monetary value of public health and education services. Or it is the same: the redistributive effect of public health is greater than that derived even from the progressiveness of taxation. And the same is true of public education, which has a very large redistributive effect, especially on the levels of childhood, primary, secondary and professional education. You have these two considerations, one question immediately arises: how is it possible that inequality in Galicia is below the European Union average and well below the Spanish whole average, and that even if it is reducing inequality with a Government of the Union that the only thing it has been doing in ten years is destroying employment, destroying health and destroying public education? Obviously, they can't answer this, either opposition or anyone. Because the reality is that Galicia is growing and creating jobs, and with less unemployment than Spain, and that this government, despite the crisis, has improved public education and health. And there's objective data that confirms it again, not only budget, but also independent studies. I will simply mention that of the Federation of Public Health Associations, which placed Galicia in the eleventh position in 2009 and which now places it, in 2017, in the eighth place. And with regard to public education, we must remind them again — so that they don't say I advertise — the report made by Professor Francisco Pérez for the Ivie Foundation — the Valencian Institute — and BBVA Research, in which Galicia appears above the average of Spain in all educational variables analyzed; that is, it has more public resources for inhabitants, better access rate, greater equity of the system set and greater use of the student. And they are — I insist — academics who are not in the political debate. Galicia has improved levels of inequality, but it is enviable from the perspective of the whole of Spain and also from the EU average27. It is true that we are due to many causes: historical, because we live in a society of small owners; social, because our people, so subject to the steamers of their destiny, are a particularly supportive people, in which the family still plays a fundamental role as an element of cohesion, support and overcoming difficulties; and even economic reasons, because we live in a state that practices the redistribution of income, which brings up the available family income two or three points on what is per capita family production; that is, the State distributes resources available to families in Galicia. But what you can't admit is that all I just said is in spite of the Union, and not because the Union, which manages some of the factors that most affect the improvement of equality, is doing everything wrong. That the fairest levels of social equality in Galicia do not have to do with, against all documentary evidence, spending and management of the public health system, public education or direct social spending is an unsustainable argument. And there are the 700 million euros that manage social policy in dependence, family and childhood, social inclusion, disability and SAF. And highlighting the increase in dependency coverage by 23% since 2015, so that the ratio of treated dependents is 85% in July of this year, seven points above the average state. Maybe all of this has to do with equality, because this government is working for equal opportunities, for redistribution with its fiscal policy and social expenditure. And they do it by ideological conviction, because we believe in social justice and solidarity, and because redistribution, in addition, favors economic growth. But also because it contributes to the normalization of the political situation and the institutional stability of our democracy. The concern for democracy is not exclusive to Spain or Galicia, but it's a concern that has been alerted and alarmed by many polythologists. We are seeing involutions towards authoritarianism in America with Trump, in Russia with Putin, in Europe with Orban and Erdogan, in South America with Maduro or in the Far East with Duterte. There are widespread alarms about the fragility of democracy. In a recent and highly recommended book, entitled How democracies die, the professors at Harvard Steven Levitsky University and Daniel Ziblatt warn us of four key indicators in a possible drift towards authoritarian behavior: firstly, rejection or weak acceptance of the rules of the game; secondly, denial of the legitimacy of political opponents; thirdly, tolerance or promotion of violence; and fourthly, the predisposition to restrict the freedoms of opposition and the media. The test seems simple, but when you ask questions they're already a little more uncomfortable. Do you reject a constitution or express a desire not to accept it? Does he describe one of his political rivals as an existential threat to people's lives? Have they ever refused to condemn or penalize violence without any kind of ambiguity? They threatened the press with legal measures that restrict their freedom of information with the excuse that there are many fake news? These are uncomfortable questions and each one must answer in his political organization. I'll answer them for my own sake: We have a maximum respect for the institutions. This parliament has been reformed to the point that the opposition has the possibility of setting up a health investigation commission to which the president has already offered to come before the opposition presents the list of people to come, so that it is clear that it has nothing to hide. A committee which is created with a reform of the Rules of Procedure, which, when we were in the opposition, the Bipartite denied, and which, when we voted here, the Block and AGE-En Marea voted against, and which is now, by the way, a success of the German constitutional democracy. [[Murmurs.]] Well, here we are. We respect the rules. [[Applause]] We never retain legitimacy to our political opponents, nor do we regard them as the enemy, Mrs. Olalla; nor do we disqualify the whole of an organization because one or more, or even many, of its members are investigated for corruption. In fact, we don't even ask for selective resignations from mayors when there's a mayor who says something absolutely inappropriate, like calling "chacha" a woman who occupies a public office, and there's another mayor from another city who compares one of his conchlers and disqualifys her by saying that as a tenor would be able to think in the full. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We do not call for resignation asymmetrically, nor do we, the Lords of the Tide, to those political leaders who threaten journalists with whipping them until they bleed. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares, we are so respectful of the rivals that we would never happen to attribute suicide to any political leader, either party or party. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Of course, if all the political actors in Spain and Europe behaved like this majority, I am sure that democracy would certainly not be in any danger. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning we hear the speech of a president who believes in the country, in his potential and in his institutions; a reformist president who wants to continue changing his pace but decisively our country to do it better; a president who is pushing for substantial reforms in the economic environment. Parliament's challenge is to deal with Pes; the social challenge with health reforms that go beyond the infrastructure and incorporate new benefits for chronic patients, hospitalized at home or who have rare diseases; the impulse to educational policies; social policy reforms to address more dependence on more public residences or with the increase of the Bonus Autonomy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u78	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u79	...progressing in social dialogue; institutional reforms with language. And that's why he'll count on the majority group of the House, which is because it reflects the majority feeling of the people of Galicia. A parliamentary group which also shares the method proposed by the President: dialogue and the search for consensus. With social agents, social dialogue; with Parliament, to deal with Xacobeo and demography, as has been done with fires; with State administration, infrastructure and transfer of AP-9; and with local administration, both the Waste Plan and the Water Plan. And with other autonomous communities, through the Conference of Presidents, reform of self-financing. I, Mr. Leicega, say that if I agree to cooperate with the State Government. But that advice, if you like, we'll also transfer it to the mayors of Galicia. For example, someone who doesn't stand out precisely because he's the best example of institutional cooperation in the world, even though he has the greatest Christmas enlightenment in the world. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately there is a pending reform which, without the opposition's consensus, will be very difficult to carry out. I mean, look for a shared space where we respect each other and don't go about saying barbarities about the political rival. That's what Manuel Rivas pointed out in the newspaper article to what I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, which he spoke about Jarosinski and his tweets. Manuel Rivas' article was entitled "The Persecution of the Insult," and the pending reform that he told Spain he had been "the Reform of the Insult," to "do it at least a little more artistic." Even if it's only for the sake of constitutional cohabitation, this spokesman and this group won't stay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u80	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to begin my speech by thanking the audience in the gallery, both those who came in the morning — who were more — and those who remain in the afternoon. I also want to thank and greet the participation of the various spokespersons of the groups, the spokesperson of the majority party, the spokesperson of the BNG and the spokesperson of the Socialist Party, and also all the spokespersons of the tides of Podemos that today have been in this Chamber. The truth is, there's a well-known expression that sums up the situation very well, but in fact, that expression is "revolved but not together." [[Laughter]] I'm sorry, deeply, that the spokespersons of the morning We can't be in the afternoon, but they'll probably still be able to come back. Mrs. Pontón, there you are, and the whole set of considerations you've made. You're talking about possession. Indeed, their intervention can be attributed to nationalist posverity. The rate of poverty affects 500,000 people, and it turns out, honourable Member, that the rate of poverty — according to the data of the National Institute of Statistics, the latter — is 18.7%, 2.9 points less than the Spanish average and 3 tenths less than last year. And most importantly, Galicia is among the only seven autonomous communities where the poverty rate is lower than when you ruled in 2008. It is surprising that those who when they ruled the poverty rate were higher came to talk about poverty, even though we ruled after ten years of economic crisis. [[Murmurs.]] You have, Your Honor, the data from the National Institute of Statistics. [[Applause]] And then, too, there's the number of homes that are hard to reach by the end of the month. Well, look, when we got to the government it was 46%, now 31, 15 points less. And with a lot of difficulty when we got to the government it was over 9, it's now 8.6. If we add up with difficulty, then when we get to government 55%, and now 39.9.15 points less. And now it turns out that nationalistic possession is to say that there is now more poverty than before. Like emigration, the year young people left Galicia was when I ruled the Nationalist Block of Galicia in 2007. [[Murmurs.]] Exactly! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look at the statistics. It was 13,970 who left, in front of the 11,500 who came in. The migration balance accumulated since 2009 — since we are in government — is still positive. You see, despite the economic crisis, despite the fact that Galicia has left us, despite the socialist governments of Rodríguez Zapatero, the number of people who have left Galicia and the number of people who have entered is positive, because 27,221 people have entered. Take note, Mrs. Pontón. They left Galicia 267,000 and returned to Galicia 294,826 people, despite, Your Honor, the recession, the economic crisis. And even in young people from sixteen to thirty-four years from 2009 to 2017, it's also positive the balance of those who came in front of the ones who left, entered Galicia 2,530 more than the ones who went out. Nationalist posverity only lasts as long as it is stated, Your Honor, but it doesn't have a single data from all of you this afternoon. As much as you repeat a lie, it will not become reality. We're taking care of health! And it turns out that the concerts during the Bipartite grew by 44% in health care, and during the People's Party decreased by 8.7. But, Mrs. Pontón, what nationalistic possession are you talking about? [[Murmurs.]] Do you think that the Greeks are fools or that we don't know how to read and write? But, Mrs. Pontón, public health today is more public than ever! And when more health was arranged, it was when you were in government. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, between 2004 and 2008, private health concerts increased by 44% — straight — and now decreased by 8.76. The facts are not manipulations, and here we will always talk about facts. The Health Insurance Act is a fact, the reduction of waiting times is a fact, the new infrastructures of the new hospitals and the extension of hospitals is a fact, the increase of health personnel is a fact, the good evaluation of primary care by the Greeks is a fact. And the excellent performance of public health at times of great tension and demand for resources, such as the Angrois accident and the Marisquiño accident, was a fact that filled me with pride as president of the Union. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I believe that... I understand that you are upset by the comparison of current public health with which you managed, because manipulation is to take advantage of a fact in which unfortunate circumstances are given, that we all regret — like the death of the Road — to turn it into the measuring rod in the entire public health of the country. So they want Galician nationalists and their public health. Manipulation, Your Honor, is telling lies. "The minimum-time warranty decree has been made to favour the private," BNG said. To date 7,269 persons benefited by this decree, all attended in public hospitals. "At the Costa hospital there are no interventions of cataracts, fimosis or otorrine", Dr. Villares. Interventions are 476 cataracts, 974 urology and 211 otorrin. "At Vigo's hospital they charge for the escorts' seats," I'm not going to quote the professor who said that, but he's going to answer me, as usual. It's a shame he realized he was lying and he didn't make excuses. And "The Vigo Hospital is private," how many lies they've told for so long! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] How many lies have been told to so many vibes for so long and yet they have not accepted the truth! [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, nationalist posverity continues to say that we privatize education and that educational concerts have been done more than ever. Well, look, the annual average of new Bipartite educational concerts exceeded by five to a year's average of the Galician People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] In total, with the Bipartite, there were 213 private concerts, and we 93; if we divide it by the number of years the Bipartite is 53 each year and we are 9.3. "The nationalist possession" — I insist — is the title of his intervention. [[Murmurs.]] He said — and it was so fresh — that we came here now to approve the spending ceiling and that, however, we still approved it by sucking, but that we also approved it without saying anything during the time of the PP in government. But no, no, no! In 2017, the ministry informed us in time, at the end of July, of deliveries to the 2018 account, so we approved the cost ceiling in time. And the deficit schedule was approved for 2018. And in 2018 Professor Puy just confirmed that delivery to the account is only 200 million euros short. What did they intend? What did we do with a spending ceiling of 200 million euros less? Why are the issues contained in the hemerotheques and the logbooks so evidently manipulated? Mrs Pontón said that the Consortium is not an example of conciliation, but of the 167 applications approved 152, i.e. 91%. And those who refuse are for reasons of service, but I suppose 91% of the requests are approved. You must not continue to manipulate reality. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, you say it's all a disaster in Galicia, that we've actually reached the government... because at the end of 2017 we've overcome 3% of the growth of the economy and we've been three consecutive years. And in 2018 we will grow above what the average of Spain grows; we have less registered unemployment than in October of the years 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Less registered unemployment. Yes, today we have 166,320 unemployed, when I arrived at the government there were over 210,000. Today we have 44,342 less unemployed than when we arrived at the government. Now we're going for membership. We have today more social security affiliations than we had in the years 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013 and 2012. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As for legislation -- Professor Leicega asked me if he was happy with what was going on with legislation -- we have 50,153 more affiliations; that's since this legislation began. Exports hit the record in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. We're growing twice as many exports as the rest of Spain. The industrial production index has grown for the third consecutive year, but it turns out Galicia is worse than when we reach the government democratically through the elections. And depending on 2,000 million euros more paid to 14,000 dependents, and we with billions less euros during these ten years are paying 57,600, four times more than in 2009. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The coverage ratio for the first time in Galicia is ten points more than the average state. And in the priority of professionals in relation to economic benefits, professional services are at 80% and in Spain at 68%. What are we accused of? Mr. Leicega, one day in an oral question you asked me a joke, using the data of a survey to talk about dependency. And in this survey I answered him -- I'm surprised he'll tell me again -- he didn't measure the number of people who are pending from a dependency, but the number of people who believe they might be dependent on it, but they didn't ask for it. So, Mr. Leicega, what do you think we should do, rather than tell the people that you think you're in a supposition of dependence that you're asking for? But don't make these jokes to me, because you're a pretty serious person. So, Your Honor, we have 79,755 dependents and we have answered 99,17%, and charging at the end of this year 60,000; more than ever in the history of the country. [[Applause]] We've reduced the number of people to waiting lists. I don't think it's reasonable to say that we're worse at dependency or disability when we have 106% more than in 2009 at bookstores. We can't even say that the Home Help Service doesn't work when we have ten times as many as in 2009, we have 22,500 taken care of. Or that teleassisted services are a smaller issue when we have twice as much as we have in 2009, we have 7,082. Mr. Leicega and Mrs. Pontón, if a two-party government could say what I'm going to say now! Day centers, despite the crisis in the last ten years, 223% more; Alzheimer's centers, 111% more; senior residences, 40% more; disability squares, 25% more. Total, 52% more day centers, alzeimer centers, residences and disability squares, is that going up or down? That's going up more than ever, despite having less money than in the last few years. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you're against or in favor of public debt, it's not clear to me, Mr. Leicega and Mrs. Pontón. First we are told that we have greatly increased public debt, and Mr. Leicega, in addition to saying so, says that we have to increase the deficit, that we have to increase the deficit in next year's budgets. Mr. Leicega, are you inviting me to spend another 120 million euros? Yes. Let it be clear, then, that Mr. Leicega wants more public debt to increase 120 million euros. Mrs Pontón is equally clear in the reply, but Mr Leicea and Mrs Pontón should know that we are the autonomous community where Spain's public debt has been reduced. And you should know that when we got to Junta, the percentage of public debt was higher than the average of the autonomous communities and now it's lower by six points. You should know that this board could live better and the Germans worse. You should know that this board could spend 3,800 million euros of public debt to match us on average and you didn't. And the Greeks awarded us in the polls. No, we could spend a lot more, Mr. Leicega. We could be those communities that didn't break because we rescued them with everyone's money. Indeed, Mr. Leicega, we could be those, but if that is your economic model, it would be good for you to clarify it in the House. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Today a Greek or a Galician owes 2,000 euros less than the average of the Spaniards, 10,000 euros less than the Catalans and quite less than a Valencian or a mallorquin. Public debt, gentlemen, yes or no? That's the question. [[Applause]] I think the Greeks have the right to know how pensions in Galicia evolved during the economic crisis. Above all, they have the right to know one thing: in 2009 I found a Galician who in the last year had increased the number of pensioners to 7,000, and I received a Galician who in the last year had fallen in number of contributors to more than 50,000. I mean, for every new pensioner, seven jobs were lost. And now Galicia, in the last year, has increased the number of pensioners to 3,000 and the number of memberships to 21,600. I mean, for every new pensioner there are seven new workers; that's the difference, Mr. Leicega, Mrs. Pontón, between a Galician who has a future and a Galician who doesn't. [[Applause]] The average retirement pension over these years in Galicia has risen by 32% and in Spain by 29%. You should take note of this data simply not to be talking about it again every day and all the debates in the state of Autonomy, because you will understand that the Greeks are already a little tired. Pensions rise, except when socialists freeze them. Yes, yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] In 2009, the average of a permanent disability was 710 euros, and in 2018 it was 856, 20.5% more. In retirement, 32% more than average pension in Galicia today than in 2009; 698 euros in 2009, 922 in 2018. In widowhood, 23.9% more; in orphanage, 16% more. The total contribution pensions, 29% more. Mr. Leicega, is the Minister of Labour in favor of joining the IPC? yes or no? I said yes? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're going to find out soon enough, even though this question would make sense to the leader of Podemos, not to the Minister of Labour of the Socialist Government. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, of course everything can be better, but of course everything would be worse. The level of the funds of the common agricultural policy has been maintained, despite the fall of the European funds. We made the Law of improvement of the agricultural structure and the Law of mountains against all. Galicia is the only autonomous community where no taxes are paid in rural areas, against all. It has increased support for the modernization and incorporation of young people; 2,600 young people in the last two years. You bet on living and improving the quality of life in rural? Yes. The Rural Road Framework Plan, digital integration. Macroeconomic data confirms that the primary sector in Galicia grows and creates jobs. Yes. According to the Galego Institute of Statistics, the weight of the primary sector — agriculture, livestock and fisheries — in Galicia's GDP is 4.8%, twice as much as in Spain. In 2017 the primary sector grew by 1.7 per cent; and since 2008 it grew by every year except in two years: in 2009 and in 2012. According to EPA, employment in the primary sector increased by 5.3 % in 2017. Mrs. Pontón, would you like to talk about the fires? It's the second time in a debate about the state of Autonomy that comes to talk about fires and throw four dead on the premises of the PP. It's unfortunate, Mrs. Pontón. That is the moral legacy of the German nationalists in this Parliament. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You want us to talk about the times you managed the fires in Galicia? [[Murmurs.]] Do you want us to talk, Your Honor? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, it's been only four years, because if you don't, we don't know what would happen in the mountains in Galicia. We have a little respect for the truth, a little respect for those who are not and a little respect for the dignity of the House itself. Finally, Mrs. Pontón, you're trying to fool everyone around with the issues of the rural environment, it's your way of understanding the Greek reality. When you vote for the BNG somewhere, it's that this place is going very well, even there are no fires. And if there are fires, it's because of the board. But if Galicia votes to the PP, then it goes very badly, obviously. Nationalist posverity has been stripped, one by one, of the arguments you have raised, and now it's the turn of the eucalyptus. The forest plan above the table means an increase in the number of hectares of pine, leafy and chestnut of 155,000 hectares, and of eucalyptus of 25,000 hectares. Exactly what are we accused of, Mrs. Pontón? I'm not defending the industry here, it's wrong to speak. See the Session Journal and see the hemerotheque. On investment uptake, in Galicia nobody invests, except Citroën 3,000 million euros. You don't invest anyone, except 400 million euros between Star Galicia, Albo, Entrepinares, Dairy, Coren, Grupo Cuevas. Nothing, and in the forest sector no one puts on a potato. We're with the largest biomass plant in Galicia's history, 230 million euros invested, currently with 1,000 jobs in Curtis, and you don't invest anyone. Well it must be, Your Honor, that, as you know everything, ultimately gives the feeling that you don't know so much. [[Applause]] You speak of the report of the Royal Academy of Languages — of course we read the report — issued in February: Language and society, socio-linguistic evolution 1992-2013. The final conclusion—leo—: "The Greek has a vantage point of democracy compared to other languages of Spain, and a strong position in Galicia itself." And he adds: "The breakdown of intergenerational linguistic transmission and the processes of monolingualization in Spanish that lead to younger generations compromise their situation in the territories with greater population and greater economic dynamism." That's what he says, not what you say, what the report says. And he continues to insist on the Royal Gallega Academy that the health and presence of the Greek in society is good compared to the rest of the languages of Spain; that the level of knowledge of the Greek is the highest in history, but that its use, indeed, among the newer and urban areas is not accompanied by this level of knowledge. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Exactly what I said in my intervention. I don't handle the reports, Mrs. Pontón, you have to read them all. The Greek has an unquestionable vitality. 73% of the population commonly used by the Greek is bilingual, also highlights the high degree of knowledge of the Greek and adds: "That eight out of ten people are able to read and six out of ten are able to write in Greek is a good news." And it concludes: "Glew can be used by 89% of the population of Galicia, compared to 85% of Catalan and 55% of Basque." What part of this report doesn't you like, Mrs. Pontón? [[Murmurs.]] We accept the problem we have: young people and the urban world, not the rest, Mrs. Pontón, not the rest. Ladies and gentlemen, you're not the ones who send out the Greek meats. You're not the one who lifts Galician militants off. What you do is take down the militants of the BNG. Yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] You say Galicia's decisions must be made in Galicia, not hundreds of miles away from the country, and I agree. You talk to your coalition comrades in the Town Councils. I agree with that. But in addition, let them not make the decisions of Galicia or Basque nationalism or Catalan separatism. Ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia there is an original Welshman and a nationalism that is a copy. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're talking about indoctrination at school. Are you serious about indoctrination in school? Hide teacher data. We're the autonomous community with more teachers per student, but if you recognize your attack, an attack of sincerity that I wrote down here. He openly says they're against having computers in schools. We already knew his ideology was a thing of the past, now we know you're against boys in schools discovering the 21st century. Your Honor, you speak of my retirement. Everything's coming! But every time the BNG wants to retire some politician, it wasn't good for him. Look what happened to Fraga. In every debate in the state of Autonomy, you wanted to retire the Fraga, and you always won them. And if you'll excuse me, look what happened to Beiras, who wanted to retire. [[Murmurs.]] Look what you've set up in the seats next to yours. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, I appreciate your tone and your respect for the House, I think that's important. It's important because one can cheat on a data, the first self, but come here with a set of data that are nothing more than nationalistic posterity, I don't think it's reasonable. Unfortunately, it's not the same thing that we heard from the vogue that happened in the use of the word. I share everything you have said about Castile, but I only give you a warning: be careful with the name of it, the nationalists will not come to charge you with copyright, Mr. Leicega. [[Murmurs.]] He says that the only thing we think about is winning elections. Of course, Mr. Leicega, that is what we agree with. It would be good for the Spanish Socialist Workers Party to think at some point about winning the elections, and not being in government after losing the elections, Mr. Leicega. That would be, frankly, the logical in democracy. [[Applause]] I don't know what he said about the legislative program. I think it was wrong or I misunderstood it, it might be the two questions, but we've got eleven laws approved. Not the animal protection law, no, no, eleven. If you want, I'll tell you. Yes, yes, in this legislation, Vice-Speaker. If you want, I'll leave it to the President of the House, because reading the eleven doesn't seem right to me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, we agree, eleven, okay. No, it's just like the animal protection thing I said, because I told Mr. Leicega, that he's a pretty serious person, someone's been given a little bit of a role. We've got eleven laws passed on legislation, and the government has approved six others, they have to get into the House. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quote: Land Management Act, Natural Heritage Act, Digital Administration Act, Urban Rehabilitation and Regeneration Act, Thermal Funerals Act and Pharmaceuticals Management Act. We're done. You know that public information circuits, of course, need to be fulfilled, and in this debate I proposed six new laws. The Law on the Heritage of the Autonomous Community, the Law on Budgets, of course, the Law on the Regulatory of Gambling and Betting of Galicia, the Law on Measures for Water Supply and Quality Guarantees, the Law on Employment in Galicia and the Law on Demographic Push. It's six more. And eleven plus six plus six is twenty-three. Mr. Leicega, you've been telling me about the balance since I've been president, and I'm at your disposal. He says I'm a surfer. Well! Between being a surfer and sinking a country, there's a big difference. But you don't think being a surfer is easy, eh! [[Applause]] Come with me to Pantín Classic and you'll understand it's very complex. You will understand that surfing in the waves of the public deficit, public debt, the sudden fall of employment, the fall of memberships to Social Security; surfing in all those waves that left us, mails that caused the insignificant president of the government of the time, is well deserved. I can assure you that you have great merit. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, when we arrived, the gross domestic product — one wave — was down by 4.5%, now rising by 2.5%. The stop wave. When we arrived, unemployment increased by 50,900 people in one year, now it has fallen 17,000 in the same year. Memberships to Social Security — the wave they left us — 50,800 less affiliated in the last year, now grow 21,628. Not bad, Mr. Leicega! Of course you can be better, no doubt. The evolution of exports. In Galicia 20 percent fell, we are now Spain's second autonomous community and we make twice as many exports as in Spain. It's not bad, Mr. Leicega, that we to the Greeks recognize a certain effort. Breakdown in terms of EPA, 14%; Spain 15.3%. What did we do during the legislation? Lower unemployment in terms of EPA 2.3 points, from 16.3 — 7 less than at the beginning of the second legislation — to 211. You speak of youth unemployment, 4 points less than the Spanish average, and 3.3 points less than at the beginning of the legislation. You were also talking about last year's unemployment. In the last year — in which we've spent our years — we're the autonomous community where Spain's unemployment has gone down most; I don't think that's a bad thing. Today, there are 39,594 people less unemployed in legislation, and 44,000 less than in April 2009. Does it seem to you that companies, trade unions and workers in Greece have no merit for this data? Last year's membership data: 1,013,000 people affiliated with Social Security; 21,628 more affiliates in the last year. As for legislation -- you asked me -- 50,153 more memberships to Social Security. You mix occupation and social security. We'll talk about the occupation. But it's not true that the indefinite job today is worse than when we get to the government. No, no. In 2008 in Galicia the indefinite employment was 69.6%, today it is 73.8%. Why do you say today's indefinite job is lower, if there's more indefinite job in the series we're looking at today? Busy for full time. Two out of three employees have an indefinite full-time contract: 64.7% — a higher figure. On the evolution of wages. In Galicia, from 2008 to 2017, wages rose by 8.1 and in Spain by 5.4. But, Your Honor, am I Spanish, like where we're from? From Spain, of course! If you want, I'll compare myself to another country, but you probably don't care. What has the Government's parliamentary group done in Galicia during these years? Converge with Spain. Galician income never converged more with Spain than now, never!, 90%. That's the summary, Mr. Leicega, Professor. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] In 2008, the per capita GDP of Galicia was 87.4%, and in 2017 90%, the highest in our history. Mr. Leicega, I think you know all this perfectly, it's a study of this data, so I was very surprised that you asked me to make a balance of a decade and then make a balance of legislation. [[Murmurs.]] I'm trying to do it. When we say we increase 66% of the free toll-free kilometers, that's a little bit to you. 67% doesn't seem like it. I'd like to do more. But do you know that all the highways that left the Bipartite left them with peas in the shade? All of them! You're going to say, no, no, it's the PP that got them. Right, but why didn't they pay for it, Mr. Leicega, if there were billions of euros that didn't run? Why didn't they pay for it? Why did they leave without paying for Barbana's bus, Salnes' bus and Santiago-Brion's bus? Millions of euros don't pay! And we're paying the toll in the shadow of all the highways that finished the Bipartite. Besides, making 66% more than a mile with zero prices in the shade. I don't think it's a bad idea, Mr. Leicega. Of course we'd like to go faster! Of course. We are finishing the highway of the Morrazo — they could have made it — in the vial of the North Coast I hope that we will reach an agreement in Viveiro, because we take five alternatives to pass Viveiro. Let's see if we can agree on the bridge now. It is 100 million euros, Mr. Leicega, it would be good to come to an agreement in Viveiro to draw the problems! On the highway, we're starting the expropriatory file. I'm so sorry you didn't make a single kilometer, you didn't even expropriate! In the case of Nadela-Monforte, Mr. Leiceaga, we have in writing the plan to unfold between the poor of San Xiao and Sarria. Of course, we want to bid it in 2019; as well as the Tui-A Guard. By the way, are they going to leave us or not to make the way? Yes or no? The Ártabra road is the one that goes to the metropolitan area of the Coruña. They're gonna let us connect the Ártebra track, yes or no? I think the people of Oleiros, of Cambre, of Culleredo and of the Coruña have a right. It would be good if they talked to the highway, the dealership, to the one that you're so demanding, that they let us connect. Because it's amazing that we have to ask permission to make a road in Galicia. Look, Mr. Leicega, internal R & D spending has risen by 1.5%, more than the average of the state. We're not in the queue truck. The number of people engaged in internal R & D activities, in 3.6, reaching more than 9,370 people; 1 more than the growth of the whole state. The Greek companies have increased their innovative effort, a 9.3 -- the biggest increase in the last four years. And in the case of the Administration — which depends on us — we managed to make an effort to spend on R & D at 17.7% more than in the 2013-2016 period. We are the third autonomous public spending community in R & D of the state. I think that data you also know, so I think you should at least remember it: 9 business accelerators, 225 of those accelerators have already become companies, and 900 projects are being evaluated. By the way, one of the issues that interests Mr. Leicega and the economists of the Weirlands, the occupied population. Why don't they say, when they talk about the busy population -- I don't know if you're the economist of Podemos -- that in under 35 years Galicia lost 150,000 in population? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] Why do you skip that data? Why do you forget the data, however, that in over 35 we won 74,400 busy? How will the busy population grow if we're losing people under the age of 35 and yet not even comment on it? And now it turns out they realized that between births and deaths there is a deficit of 10,300 each year. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As Mr. Villares said, it's because people don't want to have children with the PP government. I think we have to be serious about this because if we don't, of course, we can make fat mistakes that people have no need to listen to. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] You say tourism is bad. He's much better than in Spain! In 2018 tourism was much better than the average of Spain in everything, in everything! At the expense of tourists, at the average stay per tourist, in number of nights, in everything, Mr. Leiceaga. Look at the data we've got. Let's see how we're done. Next week we'll get to the pilgrim number three hundred thousand, two months before last year. We have a much better evolution of tourism than in the rest of Spain in 2018, not to mention that in 2017 we were, with 5 million tourists, one of the most growing communities. Mr. Leicega, I understand that there must be opposition, I have also made it, of course, but there must be opposition with data. Now you say we're going to lower the taxes and if we keep lowering the taxes, this becomes a tax haven. But in recent years the Greeks have paid 1,100 million euros less in taxes, you haven't dropped it. 99.6% of the Greeks don't pay for successions, you haven't repeated it. And on taxes we're going to talk next week and next, when we present the budgets of the Autonomous Community. That's right. What surprises me is that you, recalling Mr. Montoro, said that Montoro had raised the taxes of Renda and VAT. But if yesterday the minister of economics was here and said that taxes must continue to rise above what the PP did! What are we left with, Mr. Leicega? Are you going to raise Renda's tax or are you not going to raise Renda's tax? Are taxes going up in Spain or aren't taxes going up? Are they against climbing them or lowering them? We clearly say this: we want to lower taxes. And we all clearly know that the Socialist Party wants to raise taxes. That's the conclusion we have in relation to taxes. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, repeat here the debate... you have two fundamental issues — well, it's fluctuating — health and now recently Radio-Televisión Gaga. I think it's all right, each one chooses his own planning. And this is the spokesman for the Black Friday Socialist Party, what TV? Are they not on Spanish TV anymore? [[Murmurs.]] Ah! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because they're in the management posts on Spanish TV. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I understand, Your Honor! I understand, exactly, why they're not! [[Applause]] I understand why they're not! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm worried that the television channel that finances the Greeks is the most visible channel on autonomic televisions after Catalan. I'm interested in this channel being the most valued in Spain as regards the dissemination of culture and its own entity. I'm interested that starting in December, this channel starts broadcasting digitally for the first time. I am, of course, interested in this channel being positioned internationally leading prestigious associations in the field of regional television administrations in the world. And what I'm worried about is having a clean TV with clean bills and zero bank debt. What surprises me is that we've been arguing -- and we've been a long time -- about the appointment of two TVG presenters who aren't now. No, no, now they say they're not-- oh, they quit! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And they quit... first name them the same thing that now makes them resign, and the problem is with the president of the board. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's amazing! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, what we can do is we can get a kick in the door at the Radio-Television Company as you entered Spanish TV, exactly the same. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You can come in the same way. [[Applause]] Yes, yes, Mr. Leicega, yes, ask the television professionals. [[Applause]] But exactly what do you want? What do we do again to television from the time of the BNG and the PSOE, with the greatest labor litigiousness in history?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u82	Quiet. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u83	A Galician Radio-Television Company that the People's Valedor and the election boards had rejected. A television that, during the election campaigns, the Central Electoral Union continuously showed itself. Is that the Radio-Television Company you want? Information for PSOE and BNG programs? But, Mr. Leicega, you and I know perfectly well that I am not able to deal with as many TVG directors as changes of spokespersons in the German Parliament, because if we hadn't taken eleven TVG directors, which are the eleven spokespersons I've been having in the last ten years. You will understand, Mr. Leicega, that this is impossible. What do you propose? What is the deal with you or with Mr. Knight? Question! Look at the look of En Marea's, carefully, at that pact. [[Applause]] You know, Your Honor, that today there is funding for solvent companies. You know, when the credit channels were closed, we kept funding. You know perfectly well that Igape has always been there to maintain the country's economic structure. You know today we have 19,300 new jobs in the industrial sector. You know that we managed to mobilise an investment of 545 million euros and benefit 7,000 companies in the period 2015-2017. You know that the Program [...] has given 135 million to help more than three thousand hundred projects, which has achieved an investment of more than 500 million euros. You know, Mr. Leicega, that health today is the best valued in our history. Let me read the reviews at the time of the Socialist Party and the BNG, 2005-2008: 5.5, 5.5, 5.8 and 5.87. 2017, 6,49. That's what Mrs. Pontón used to say but without reading the years that corresponded to her. And now it turns out that it says, no, no, it's that people don't value health. Of course, people have the right to make the assessment they consider appropriate, but among people who use public health, which is different than among people who don't use it and simply have an idea or impression of how health works, let's go to those who used public health. In 2003, primary care considered it good at 79,4 and in 2017, 88,1. In external consultations, in 2003 74.8, and today 78.8. And in emergencies, 77.4 in 2003, and now, in 2017, 84.7. That's what there is, and what there is is is that it's not reasonable to say that we cut the public jobs of Junta, when in 2008 we had 86,858 workers and today there are 86,995, i.e. 137 more workers today than when we got to Galicia in 2009. Why are they striving to say things that are not true, if we can discuss those that are true? It's wasting time. It's wasting time saying that in Galicia we have a higher temporality than the rest of the autonomous communities because we have a lower one. And it's wasting time saying that we've made a lot of temporary contracts because you know we couldn't make public job offers because it was banned by the Budget Act. And as soon as we were authorized to make public job offers, we agreed with all the unions and we have over fifteen thousand health and education jobs in public job offers agreed with trade unions. That's the reality, Mr. Leicega and Mrs. Pontón. That's what matters. The rest, as is natural, is simply wasting time and bringing here the things that you comment on in your myths, but this is not a myth. Mr. Leicega, you are a serious parliamentarian, how can you do the demagogy you did on the demographic issue? Demography, yes, yes, demography. How can you say that the problem of demography is an economic problem? All Europe and other countries in the most developed world have a demographic problem. Population is getting older and there are lower birth rates. Look, I'll give you the data from Germany. In Germany, in 1992, the average age of a German was 37 years, and in 2014, 45.9. In Japan, the average age of a Japanese was 47.2 years. In Galicia, in 1992, we were about 39 years old, and now 47.1; that is, we had a better demographic evolution than Germany. Yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that we have to study, this is the problem, and don't touch it. And studying means having respect for the truth. As far as birth is concerned, you can't frivolize by saying that low birth is the result of poor economic development because then Germans are poor, and Japanese are poor too? Mr. Leicega, where's your birth? In countries with lower per capita income: in Somalia, Mali, Chad, Angola, Burundi and Afghanistan. But, Mr. Leicega, don't you understand that this is a problem complex enough not to just come here with a joke and join the demo to another proposal? [[Murmurs.]] Mr Leicea, in fact, I voted for Felipe González, it is true, in 1982. But do you have the party that voted in our 80s, and ninetys, and no 2000s? I think if you go on like this, you'll end up voting to me. I've told you since the cordiality and respect I have. [[Applause]] Let me tell you not an anecdote, but a reality that happened next day 12 exactly a year ago. I know you agree, other House groups disagree that the president of the board is going to the national party on October 12. I will, I will always. You agree. Well, he touched me next to Felipe González, and we talked, of course. And then at the Royal Palace I had a conversation with Alfonso Guerra, and we also talked, and he told me what to do. At that moment I was in discussion whether or not Catalonia intervened. And Mr. War — I remember perfectly — said to me: four things must be done. First, stop the President of the Generalitat. Second, cease the full government of the Generalitat. Third, dissolve the Catalan Parliament. It's fourth, TV3. It got me in the head. And I said, don't tell me anything, because I voted for the Socialist Party in 1982. Alfonso Guerra's answer was: you don't notice anything. My answer was: I voted for that Socialist Party, not for the current Socialist Party, which would not do any of the four things that you just listed. That's the difference, Mr. Leicega, between a Socialist Party that when it ruled, was because it won, and a Socialist Party, now ruling after consecutively losing two elections. [[Applause]] I thank you for acknowledging that you have created the Health Research Commission, the spokesperson for the People's Group has already explained why. We also launched a research commission on the Marisquiño in the Vigo Town Hall. It gives me the feeling that the creation of a health committee is the most ferocious recognition and criticism of the democratic bite in the plenary session of the Vigo Council. [[Applause]] No one who lives in Vigo would have known that there was an investigation commission in the Vigo Council on a proposal from the opposition. It would be impossible, Mr. Leicega, would it not be impossible? I already know that they pushed the Health Commission to cover up the problems of the Marisquin, and what they're achieving is that there's more evidence of what happened there. Mr. Leicega, I could do like Mr. Sánchez, don't show up. Mr. Sánchez has an application to attend to explain his doctoral thesis at the Senate. He said he didn't show up. And tell me that the least I can do is show up. Well, I agree. I asked to appear, of course, Mr. Leicega, but don't tell me that the least I can do is to show up because you don't show up. We've almost forgotten how the President of the Government spoke for a while. What I do tell you is that Mr. Pedro Sánchez four months ago would have presented several motions of censure to Mr. Pedro Sánchez President of the Government, no doubt. [[Applause]] I'm going to finish, Mr. President. I finish very briefly because I believe that all the explanations that Mrs Pontón and Mr Leicega have put forward are explanations that I think they deserve it because they are interested in the Greeks. There's another kind of intervention that I think is simply a violation of the dignity of the House, so I'm going to try not to fall into that indignity. The first paragraph of Mr. Villares' speech is a lie: An hour without attention the late Xosé Manuel Rey Brea. False, of all falsehood. It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter what lies it does, if it doesn't distinguish it anymore. Unless all the doctors lie, the doctors arrived at the 10 minutes the late Mr. Rey Brea presented the clinical picture. But if you don't mind...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u84	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u85	It doesn't matter, because it's all there is to it! What's more, when you behave like a frivolous and inconsistent teenager and you intend to speak in the name of Greeks and Greeks who deserve a respect. I am because of those Galicians and Greeks who deserve respect. I will omit all sorts of frivolous and inconsistent considerations from the coldest and most inconsistent spokesman in this Parliament. [[Applause]] Turns out you've now discovered this spokesman for public health. Too bad I didn't have a couple of concepts about public health. Now it turns out that cleaning, conservation, maintenance, phones, the kitchen have to be public because if we don't privatize it. It speaks of precariousness, of privatization. You talk about what you want, you don't care. He says, that we're in a bad state of unemployment, that in September we went to the autonomous community in which unemployment rose more than the average of Spain. And don't add that between September 2017 and September 2018 we were the autonomous community where Spain's unemployment was the most severe. He doesn't say, he's been here for a month. But what does the papers do to him? But do you give the papers a month when what you have to talk about here is a year? But don't you realize this isn't at the level you need? Now it turns out he's giving the Autonomouss a broom. But how does it happen to someone to be self-employed, if what is to be is self-employed? But how does that happen to you? If the autonomouss pay little! No, no, all workers on the other hand, and they're hired by public administrations. If that model has already been tested, we know it perfectly well, there are thousands of Greeks in that model! The sandwich tourism. In Galicia 100 thousand people live from tourism and live to sell sandwiches. Five million people come to Galicia, five million people eating snacks? But what's this? what's lacking in respect of 100,000 people working in hotels, restaurants, cafes...? [[Laughter]] The sandwich tourism! When are we going to meet with the unions? But I just put forward a proposal for social dialogue with all the unions! If we've just signed public job offers with practically all the unions! We didn't do anything about the fuels, and here was the president of the National Commission talking about the fuels. But it turns out that IBI's problem is Galician union, and IBI's a municipal tax. Turns out we have to finish cleaning up the Burgo River and the Ferrol River. The sanitation of the Burgo River is finished by the Union, and the sanitation of the Ferrol River misses the sanitation of the Malata, 7 million euros, because to achieve the ground we have been waiting for a year for the mayor of Ferrol, who finally gave us the land, we are running and will be completely healthy. But what country are you talking about? I understand that maybe that wasn't in the summaries, but it's actually. Are you in favor of AVE now? It's not what his fellow Podemos say in Madrid. Now you're worried about AVE Lugo-Ourense? Welcome. AVE Lugo-Ourense is already time for someone to worry about. You talk about Lugo, we're going to change. I thought you were going to talk about the licenses that were given on December 31st at noon because January 1st changed Lugo's Urban Management Plan and you couldn't license. I thought you were talking about those. The neighborhood of the Residence is, of course, everything. The neighborhood of the residence is. How can it be said that there are PP militants — urging the prosecution and the judges — who are the arsonists of forest fires? How can this be said from a rostrum without anything happening? And he goes back to the scene quietly quoting the prosecutor's office and the judges. Look, Mr. Villares, your opinion of the Greek language and your opinion of Toni Cantó to me have the same consideration, exactly the same. Will you now teach to defend the English language Mr. Villares? But how can you be so sectarian! "Our ancestors killed the Boveda." But do you think this can be said in a serious camera? Yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u86	Silence, silence! Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it! Silence! If not, I'll call him in order. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u87	Of course you have some fellow people in Marea who agree with you. It's good to know. I thought it was just a member of the House who had this proposal. I see you've got more. It's very good that the Greeks know. "Children prefer not to be born in Galicia so as not to be born during the current government." Mr. Villares, I think what you did today is very clear. Look, it's not worth much more talk, Mr. Villares. You're like talking about internal party processes. I suppose he was talking very comfortable, because he was looking at the rest of the party's buddies in the face. That's very good. Everything you said, with the terms you used, you define it. It is not worth a reply, with regard to this Parliament, this Government and the whole Galicia. What it deserves is for you to print this logbook, to be bound to it and to be given it as a farewell gift, Mr. Villares, as a reminder of your unworthy passage by politics in the Galician Parliament. [[Applause]] Mr. Villares, as you follow, you will not be able to dedicate yourself to politics. But it gives me the feeling that you won't be able to dedicate to the judiciary either. Who will see you working in a private company, Mr. Villares! I hope you're not autonomous. [[Laughter]] You know, autonomy must not exist, it must depend on the corresponding soviet. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, Mr. Villares, I've just superseded that you say the planes, the helicopters, the pilots must be public, everything that refers to the fire must be public. But that reminded me of the Soviet Union, Mr. Villares. But what annoyance you this afternoon! [[Murmurs.]] It was hard to improve. I, of course, will no longer go on, because, as you will understand, it is a waste of important time. Mr. Leicega, Mrs. Pontón, Mr. Villares has proposed a pact. It became clear in the House — at least as bad as now, if you speak of it clearly — the call to the government coalition, which is the one they have in Madrid, and a call to a tripartite opposition, which is the one they propose in Santiago. I don't know if you'll accept the pact or not. We'll probably be able to talk about that in the replica shift. I suppose he'll be the leader of the pact. No, Mr. Leicega, I understand not. I don't know if she was telling me that she wasn't or was moving her head. You take care of that pact, Mr. Leicega, Mrs. Pontón, because the important thing is to have a leader for a pact. And when one doesn't want him at home, they'll never want him at home. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u89	Mr Feijóo, I am sorry that it seemed so bad that this debate would fall to him and that it would appear like what it is, the President of the Posverd. [[Applause]] You're very angry, I see you didn't like that appeal. But, of course, he does an intervention that he does is to reaffirm that you are the president of the post-verity. Because he comes here to manipulate. Look, I never said Galicia was a disaster, I said her government is a disaster. It's the People's Party's management that sinks this country. And you've lost an hour and a few minutes -- actually, I haven't calculated how long you've been doing -- to actually make a contrast to what's going on in this country. You, of course, believe that citizens are numbers. And no, no, we're talking about meat and bone people. I would invite you in my intervention to get out of the official car and to listen a little to people, to ask them if the people of this country really live better or worse, if they have better wages, if they're noticing that recovery you're voting about, if the public health is better or worse. Because, of course, it's very curious. Health professionals protesting for cuts, patients protesting for cuts, platforms like SOS Public Health reporting their health disaster and privatization... everyone is wrong except Mr. Feijóo. And I want to ask you a question: do you attach yourself to public health when you have a health problem? Do you really know how public health works? Do you think you may have the defamacy — then also in the replica — of coming here and, after such a serious fact, frifling as you did? Because it's a real scandal that in the middle of 2018 a person dies in a health center in the corridors because a doctor who had to be there isn't, Mr. Feijóo. This is a very serious fact for you here to say that the health commission is a revenge of no one. No, no, the health investigation commission is an instrument to defend the health, health and rights of the people of this country. [[Applause]] I understand, Mr. Feijóo, that you don't want to look at me, that you have to be looking at those papers, because it's embarrassing what you're doing with Galicia's public health. And he hasn't answered us to an important issue that concerns Vigo, as is what's going on in Povervisa. I think this is a relevant health issue. In Vigo they have a damaged and privatized health, and right now we see as Povervisa, that private company, which is an example of a tour door manual, wants to do business with people's health. And the Greeks and the Greeks have the right to know who's in those spinning doors. Listen. They say that Povervisa has losses, based on an audit that Deloitte does. I don't know if they remember it was the company that did the cash merger audit and that company that didn't see Bankia's hole when the bag came out. In that company, the current manager of Povervisa worked. An ex-counsel, Rocío Mosquera, came to public health after working as Povervisa's manager. When she's stopped as counsellor, she's appointed as manager of Galaria. And who was the manager of Galaria who left that gap so he could be there Rocío Mosquera? Well, that's the one that later became Povervisa's manager. We're seeing the turning doors work. And what we're telling you is that you stop frivolizing, that in Vigo you have the right to first-rate health care, and that's why we need to guarantee 100 percent of health care in public care. Are you willing to do that or not? I believe that this is the answer that Vigo citizens and citizens deserve. Because we're waiting for you, Mr. Feijóo, something else to come here and tell us about your pickles from when you go to Madrid. [[Applause]] That's what you respect the citizens of this country. He told us about the good he's going to work for. And, of course, with your always paternalism tells us that no one knows anything but you, indeed, who is the only enlightened one who is able to have the truth and the reason. But I want to read you some data from Abanca's report. I don't think I accused the Bank of being BNG. I think I'd rather be on your side. He said: "The accumulated differential with regard to the evolution of the Spanish ensemble is increasing. Since 2013, occupation in Spain has grown almost twice as much as in Galicia, a relatively poor result made up of a rate of unemployment in Greece that is still 1.55 percentage points below the national, but that four years earlier, at the beginning of recovery, was lower at something more than 4 percentage points." It says that Galicia occupies the last jobs in terms of job recovery and still needs to increase 13,13% more to reach the level of occupation that existed in 2007, and that we have a divergent dynamics about the state. Mr Feijóo, I believe that no president who is concerned about the well-being of his country and who is concerned about the economic situation can come here to be proud that there are 270,000 Greeks and Greeks outside. Because really, Mr. Feijóo, that you come here saying that nothing happens, that they emigrated 270,000 but Galicia is doing well... that's what you're telling us, when we have a very important part of these people working, of course, at the London hostel, also in Madrid, also in Barcelona, because there's no chance here. If all those people didn't have to leave, today in Galicia we would have a moving demographic situation, Mr. Feijóo, instead of the crisis that we have and that you are unable to cut. Sure, tell us we'll settle down with debt. No, who has to clarify is you, Mr. Feijóo, and his posverity. How can you come here to tell us that you relieved the debt burden of this country when you placed it at its most historic, 15,000 million euros, and when you arrived there wasn't even 4,000? You've been more indebted than all previous governments. And to the Greeks and to the Greeks that gives us the most what happens to others! What we care about is what happens to this country. Of course, you have that theme, you're always looking at the worst. And so it is impossible to move forward, Mr Feijóo, it is impossible to move forward looking back. He always comes back with the same manipulations. I asked you a question that you didn't answer: segregating children and children in education, what is it? a technical or ideological matter? And explain why you shielded them. Because it's false that the responsibility of those concerts was from the Bipartite. No, no, they have their signature on those two concerts. And if you'll excuse me, I'll explain why, I'll explain why. For yes, because when Fraga lost the elections — because, indeed, Fraga lost the elections in this country in 2005 — when Fraga lost the elections because he did not have the absolute majority to rule, because the Greeks and Greeks decided to throw them home, one of the last gifts that he left us was, in the time of the discount and when they had already lost the elections, shielding the concerts of the centers that divide by sex. [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Murmurs.]] And you were on that board of assembly. And then, when the legislation changed and you could take those concerts off, you came and you know what you did? Blondalos until the year 2023. What's that? An ideological or technical question? Are you in favor of segregating children by sex? It's your responsibility, not ours. [[Applause]] He didn't answer us, Mr. Feijó. In pensions, where Galicia can act, are you in favour of raising them or continuing with that EUR 370? It's 40 million euros. Every year you leave much more helpless for the inability of your government. Mr. Feijóo, tell us whether you're in favour or against our non-contributory pensions. A hundred euros a month is the proposal of the BNG. And, really, I think, with your past, you should be a little more careful about certain things that you say. Never, Mr. Feijóo, BNG neither I nor no one has ever thrown him into the face of the dead of the fires, ever! Name them is to remember a tragedy, because we remember it, indeed, of course we remember it. And I don't want to have to remind you of your images, of course, when Galicia was burning on four sides, with a manger, or those statements, Mr. Feijóo: "With us there were no people in the fires." [[Applause]] You'll never see those statements from any representative of the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Applause]] What we say, Mr. Feijóo, is that we stop being at the service of Ence, at the service of Finsa, and that we think about how to put the mountain of this country in motion. Because it's really painful to see how much wealth there is in our mountains today is being spoiled by interests that are not the interests of the social majority, Mr. Feijóo. And that's where you could act. [[Applause]] About the language, do you really want me to read to you again what the report says about RAG? Can you tell me that what I told you doesn't come out of the RAG report, which accuses you of a 20-year retreat in the language? What are we talking about, Mr. Feijóo? You want to hide your disaster behind what? Behind what is a deliberate policy against our language. Neither did you say anything about the transcendental themes of the future of this country. We make a proposal: we talk about the self-government of this country. You're in favour of us deciding everything as Greeks and Greeks. Great! There's no problem. So, what problem do we have to improve the frame we have today? Why are you freezing the ability to rule this country? You know why?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u91	Because you don't believe in Galicia and because you're a complex president who doesn't believe in the capacity and potential of this country, as happens with the electric tariff. Actually, this is a matter of scandal. The Greeks and the Greeks are great energy producers and we can't benefit ourselves. The Government of the People's Party — with Mr. Rajoy —, even though you deny it, has signed with the Basques what is known as "euskopeax", a tariff that allowed their companies to save 50 million euros. The PSOE government has just increased and will allow them to save 120 million euros. And here are companies that can be relocated because we don't have cheap energy despite producing electricity. In Aragon his party is supporting that Aragon may benefit from the production of electricity. Why do you veto beneficial proposals for Galicia? Only by sectarianism and by falling sympathetic in Madrid, Mr Feijóo. Don't waste any more opportunities on this country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u93	Finally, Mr President, with a last thought that has to do with the question of equality, to which you have made no mention in that long, unlimited replica of time. I think you owe all the women in this country an apology for trying to boycott the 8M strike. But, above all, Mr. Feijóo, because the equality policies for you are like a vase that puts on a table, that's the respect you have for the Greeks, the people, the women of this country, that we are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u95	...half of the population. A president who does not respect women is not a worthy president of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u97	Mr. Feijóo, the truth is that it is difficult sometimes to argue, not only because of the difference in time — that we do not have — but also because I feel that it is like, let's say, Quixote, Sancho and the windmills. There's a lot of things you talked about that says I said but I didn't say. So it's very complicated when you pull enemies out of your sleeve against those who fight that are not the real enemies, my words actually. And then he calls a little attention to his inability to at least recognize the problems that exist. If I said it myself, Galicia is recovering, Galicia is going well, there is a lot of push, there are many areas where things get better, but you also recognize with me that there are others where it would be necessary to act more decisively. And I'm going, in the remaining nine minutes, to quote three or four things. Look, it's very appealing that I've devoted so much time to pension matters, especially because nothing depends on you. The medal was put on record that pensions in Galicia rose between 2009 and 2017. No, no, but take care of that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The average pension rises because the average pension has to do with, among other things, the incorporation of many people into the pension system during these years that comes in with an entry pension much higher than the average, and therefore this makes it rise. That has to do with quote in the past. But what does it have to do with you, with your government action, which is what we're judging here? No, no, no! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And, if so, you asked me a question: what does the minister think about updating pensions with the IPC? For the minister is in favour of updating pensions with the IPC. What Mrs Calvin did was say that the future of the pension system depends on many other factors to be taken into account. And, indeed, that is so and we all know it. Do you know what's going on? What I'm sure is also what you think about updating pensions with the IPC. Because at the last plenary session we had the opportunity to vote on all this, and there was a part of the House that voted in favour of this and another part of the House that voted against. So, you're not in favour of updating pensions with the IPC, that's the problem, that's the background problem that has this. That's the bottom line. [[Applause]] Sure, he's talking about demography. I really don't understand what he's saying. Because, look, you've been saying that demography is the country's main problem. And we can share this, it's a serious problem with the demographic environment. But then he comes to tell me that this doesn't matter. At least I've interpreted it this way, that's what you're telling me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And thirdly, you're also telling me that this has nothing to do with the economic situation, which is absolutely shocking. And compare it with Somalia, Afghanistan or other countries. In developed countries there are various situations. There is the German situation, indeed, but then there is the French situation or the Swedish situation, which is much better than German. And there's the Italian situation, which is practically like ours. Then we have different situations. We want to look more like Italy or Sweden. Well, for that reason, to be more like Italy or Sweden, we have to act on labour market mechanisms. Because, as you often say, children are something that you've been up to for a long time. So if you don't have work stability, if you don't have the assurances that there's going to be a good job, because it's very hard for you to get into certain kinds of costs that compromise you. If you don't have conciliation measures, if you don't have good attention to the early years of the children's life, that's what challenges arise. And that's where we have to act. That's what the observatory says we create among all of us. And, therefore, to say that this has nothing to do with the economy, with the public services, with conciliation, for it is to understand nothing, Mr. Feijóo. And if you have to see, if you have to do it, what you have to explain to me is what happens so that fertility rates are the lowest in Europe and that, since you are the president, twenty-three thousand and peak of births we will pass by eighteen thousand. That's what you have to explain to me. No, no, in the last year, in the last year, in 2017: 18 grand and peak. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, it's coming down from there, Mr. Feijóo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You can't tell me... I don't have much time. In the attention of the dependents, the IGE is a source that should be trusted to you, because it's inside the board chart. And the IGE says when he does... you tell him to do a poll. No, no, he does a statistical operation approved and commissioned by this Parliament, a statistical operation related to the needs of the population that can be met by the dependency. And what the IGE says is that there are 117,000 people who say they need attention, actually. You tell me — that I repeat it always — that we have increased the number of dependents attended. Please!, with a law of attention to the dependency that began in 2009 and ended in 2015, of progressive implementation, if you are unable to go more and more dependent, is that something very serious is happening. It's just to discover the Mediterranean, Mr. Feijóo, to discover the Mediterranean! [[Applause]] Sure, and tell me about the Galician Radio and Television Company. For other things, it was you looking for comparison to the year 2003, because it wasn't enough and then it was where I could say something positive, but the Radio and Television Company didn't talk to me about the year 2005, 2006... but, look, we didn't do it in 2011 and we didn't commit -- you too -- a new law to change things? Of course, and from there it turns out that you don't apply the law what can reduce political control over Galician TV. That's what I blame him for. What do you say? Are you willing to comply with the law or not? It's very easy. And don't tell me if it's Spanish TV and I don't know that... yeah, yeah, that's perfect! But, look, on Spanish Television, the new head of information was submitted to a consultative referendum and had support of 85% of the staff and the previous one had 7%. Of course, that's the difference, Mr. Feijóo! That's the difference! Put the news chief on a referendum at Galician Radio and Television Company to see what's going on. [[Applause]] And, of course, he talks to me about unemployment systematically, a question I didn't quote at any time. Because unemployment — it must be studied — depends on the difference between the active population and the occupied population. And the active population is falling down in Galicia, among other things, because the incorporation of Thursdays into the labour market is much smaller than in other autonomous communities. You know that the young population has fallen by almost 40% since you've been president so far, depending on the years we've measured. It could be a little less depending on the years we've measured. But let's talk about occupation. How many busy are there in Galicia and how many were there in 2009, when you took the government rent? What would be the occupation today if we behaved like Spain? There would be 90.000 more people, that's the problem, that's the problem! And everything else is flowers and they're willing to divert attention. And that's where the serious problem is, the serious crack we have. It's a job, besides, much more precarious than what was before and with wages that unfortunately — especially for young people who get into it — often lead them to a situation that is not very reasonable. And you also speak of the Government of Spain. I don't have time to answer all the things he said, but I do not resist to comment on a couple of them. On the different behaviour of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, when the People's Party was ruling — Mr. Rajoy — Mr. Sánchez from the opposition stood by him to apply Article 155, and although he could have or would not differ, he ignored those differences and said: Behind the Government, because we are facing a state problem. And today, in a situation that happily does not have the gravity, perhaps one year ago — but in any case it is a situation that exerts great tension on the seams of our democracy — it turns out that what Mr. Casado does is to use Catalonia politically to weaken Government Sanchez with the intention of strengthening his political position. That's the difference between each other, Mr. Feijóo, that's the difference between each other. [[Applause]] And, to finish -- that I have a minute left and you'll have to get on Galician TV -- because the issue of debt. [[Laughter]] Look, what's the debt problem? [[Murmurs.]] I blame you for saying that you're absolutely austere and that you raise us to 8,000 million so far the debt you've taken. You tell me, it's that 8,000 million is less than in other autonomous communities. Yes, yes, indeed, we agree with that. That's why, as debt is sustainable and not excessively large, because you could use the margin that exists to go a little further, within the limits that are approved to strengthen, for example, the investment capacity that the lady could have as infrastructure advisor or the R & D+i advisor, who would not be wrong. By the way, the data from R+D+i just won't comment on them, because they don't resist the minimal criticism, they don't resist the minimum criticism. We are in a lamentable situation in terms of expenditure on gross domestic product. But what's the problem with debt? Look, it could be reasonable that you were very strict until Mr. Montoro said, "Free stand for autonomous communities, which owes me support regardless of whether they're meeting the limits or not; and I also do it to a kind of interest that is very favorable to them." Because from that moment on you were paying more for your debt than other autonomous communities, much more so, thanks to Mr. Montoro's management. So from a certain moment on, what they're doing is putting that debt on banks, paying off the FLA -- the Financial Facility -- and paying less for interest, lately, making them pay more to the Greeks and to the Greeks for that kind of unsubsidised interest. That's what happens. So make a fall in interest expenses like a great deal of management when they're doing it wrong and they didn't know how to interpret what Mr. Montoro was going to do because he drew enough attention. That's why it's all right, but we must discuss these things knowing what's there and not trying to fool everyone, because that's not going to be possible, Mr. Feijó. I say, be a little more modest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u98	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u99	...recognizes that reality is not a completely blank reality, that there are grays, that there are even some black areas, and I think that we would all thank you, because we would be able to agree more easily on what to do, which is to promote social integration, to boost public services and to promote the modernization of Galicia, with a more powerful industrial policy, where we can act, which is in our competitiveness factors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u100	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u101	Mr. Núñez, I ask you in the name of the Tide not to project your frustrations upon others. It's not because of the tide or Podemos that Soraya punished him without a ticket to Madrid, so don't pay him with us. [[Applause]] Look, after scorning the Galicians and the Greeks with their cuts, with their precariousness, with their suffocation before Madrid, it is an honour to feel their contempt now, and thus feel a more Greek, scorned by their Government. Look, you're talking about autonomy. Don't you consider it precarious to earn less than 500 euros a month? Well that's what 55% of the autonomous people in Galicia earn, less than 500 euros a month. It's official data. Like you, that doesn't seem precarious, but I'm sure most of the people in that situation, yes. You say you don't understand what I said about the prosecutor's office in the fires. The Prosecutor said in this House itself that there were no terrorists or arsonists who burned the mountains, which were other causes. The Galician Economic and Social Council in Galicia sent in 2017 a memory—the memory that we all receive in this House—which is where the data offered by the Marea come from, where, among other things, it is reflected that only 84% of the employment that was equivalent to what was in 2008, where the differential between Galician growth and the growth of the state as a whole is established, where it is also said that in 2017 — this last year of what you are talking about — 92% of the contracts signed in Galicia are temporary. Anyway, it's all official data. If you want to take care of them or not. Look, you're talking about lowering taxes. You'll explain to us what you're going to cut this time, because if you're going to lower your debt and lower your taxes, see what services you're going to leave out of service so far. It seems that it is clear from the whole debate that the number of professionals in health care and education is not enough and that for the attention of the social services and dependence, neither is it enough. Then tell us where you're going to cut down so you can lower these taxes. Put down your debt, great merit! First you go up seven times to how you found it and now sell us as a political favor that will lower it. That's very good! You could have saved up — as it has shown in Marea — half if during the previous years you had to accept public funding mechanisms, not private ones, paying twice as much interest on the private bank market as on the public market. You're also talking about your igniting rehabilitation plans. Look, flaming plans, executed two million fifteen, also according to official execution data, ended in 2017 — Galicia General Account. From AP-9 I'm not going to say anything, because it makes everyone laugh. Look, from Sogama, you're talking about lowering 10% of the cannon — thank you! — after it rose 34% in 2014. You'll still have to thank him for that. Look, of the thirty measures you announced for the fires, said twenty-two were met. Well, look, we don't get our bills, huh? Rural Aprol is not met, the unique command for emergency services is not met, the facilities are not met or operational to act on unknown owner plots, the precautionary incorporation of the Land Bank of the plots with unknown holder is not in progress, neither is the command of the neighboring mountains in the state of abandonment, there is not the mobilization of abandoned land for agricultural polygons, there is no obligation to manage biomass of isolated dwellings in rustic soil even though they are over 400 metres from the mountain, there is no impulse to the management plans of the nineteen forest districts, there are no extensive pastoral improvements in southern Galicia, there is not the technological platform to know the degree of knowledge and protection of each mountain, there is not the training and use program on forestry treatments and there are not the same imposed on sulphur or on forest equipment for research and on the monitoring and monitoring teams. There's nothing done. There's nothing done! [[Murmurs.]] Fourteen measures at least. Upstairs, upstairs now and tell us which one of these we're lying about. [[Applause]] You talked about the social bond and the electric ticket. We want to remind you — and we have already denounced it here — that in 2016 you left 1.6 million euros behind, among other things, because you were demanding that those same people who don't have to arrive at the end of the month, who don't have to pay for electricity, had applied for it on the Internet. Man, that was ridiculous. But even more ridiculous was that you then used that money to buy light bulbs for Gaiás. Great! Look, as far as birth support is concerned, you forgot to talk about the Welcome Card this time. And he did well, surely, because the mothers are complaining that the payouts of the Welcome Card are over six months behind, which prevents them from accessing the drugs, vaccines and resources, unless they cheat on the companies that have the agreement. As far as housing is concerned, you've talked about your formidable disqualification program to prevent it. It's just that the General Council of the Judiciary says that they increased last year by 4.2%, while they went down in the country as a whole, in the state as a whole. I don't know, that program doesn't work. The empty housing program, of which you have also spoken, has had a worrisome degree of execution: 3.4%. You've run from the empty housing program, 10,499 euros. Congratulations, Mr. President! From the rehabilitation program -- from which you'll be very proud too -- you've executed 15%, i.e. 3 million left behind. From the R & D+i plan, when you arrived, not in education, in general, the R & D investment strategy reached 1%. It's below 0.89% now. The CIA of Mabegondo, by setting an example, of 21 research and researchers squares, has only 10 roofs; they're low. As far as machist violence is concerned, we do not hear a single new proposal, a single budgetary commitment and, of course, a single disauthorization of the machiru mayors that you have in the country, and those that do not, of course, disauthorise. In terms of dependency — they are also official data — more than 10,000 Welsh and Welsh requested dependency assessment and are still waiting to be evaluated. There are 9,388 valued but they don't get any help. Galicia — and also official data — occupies the last position in the State in services and places for the attention of older people, being the worst attended by the State. He didn't say anything significant in fishing either. There was an omission of the two main problems that our country has: the defense of our product against unfair competition from outside product that makes it pass by itself and also of our fishing opportunities, for which it would improve the TACs and quotas, something that you have certainly not heard of in any way. Well, this is part of the panorama. I think there is one part where it is worth stopping especially, which is the one with which you started your intervention, with reference to health, specifically referring to the accusation that you made to others to lie, when anyone is actually lying here is the president of the board of Galicia and he is the Counsellor, who still has the defiance to turn around to accuse others of lying. Well, they give the data exactly what happened. Of course! [[Murmurs.]] The Road CAP has been without a doctor for more than two hours, and since Mr. Rey Brea arrived, he has waited an hour, an hour waiting during which he had an indisposition that caused him a vomiting, which then breathed, which caused him a cardiorespiratory stop, and only ten minutes after that stop was when the medical team — the only one at that time in the CAP — entered to be able to handle it. So this gentleman was an hour and ten minutes at the CAP waiting to be taken care of, and during that hour and ten minutes he was with that situation which was finally the cause of death. So an hour waiting, because there was no doctor. And there was no doctor, ladies and gentlemen, because the board of Galicia, with the responsibility of its president and its health adviser, was violating two rules of the Council itself: the decree itself which establishes which conditions of health personnel, specifically in the points of care continuity, and the internal plan itself. Yes or no, Counselor? Yeah, right? Sure. Where we deduced that, if there were no legal infringements, if they were not violating the legal rules of the Council itself, there would at that time be a second medical team that would be in the Road CAP and would therefore certainly do a different outcome of that success. If you obey the law, there would be a second medical team and maybe this person wouldn't die. The shame, the shame, and the indignity of letting a person die for saving 300 euros, that was the saving, 300 euros, with non-compliance of the law, 300 euros and non-compliance of the law. The infamy of letting eight people of hepatitis C die, when the drugs were available in the pharmacy and you didn't want to pay them, just to save them. That indignity will pursue you for the rest of your life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u102	Thank you, Mr. Villares. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u103	Well, Mrs. Pontón, the posterity. I was — it seems to me — the first Member who spoke of post-verity, before they made it a word of the year, in this plenary, and now it is in the Dictionary of the Royal Academy, which defines it as "the deliberate distortion of reality to manipulate emotions in order to influence public opinion and social attitudes". And distancing yourself because there's something like it, and I think you'd better get into the lie, that is, say the opposite expressly than you know. I'm also going to have an age — to my regret, I haven't been in the House for as long as you do — but I do — let's say — a certain ability to understand that there are arguments that launch an insinuation and that what they want is to give an image that is not true, and that that is a lie — and you know it — is a lie. On the subject of Povervisa, insinuating that there are some kind of spin door, when exactly the problem of Povervisa is that it says that the Board doesn't pay him enough, because it's like the world in reverse. And if you want to see who's defending Povervisa without looking at the papers, for don't look at the Government of Unity, you have to look at another government, because, without seeing a paper, someone has already gone out saying it was that. Look, the real thing is what the Council is doing, which is analyzing the financial problem with Povervisa, analyzing the concert and keeping — which is fundamental — the service and hospital service in the metropolitan area, in the health area of Vigo. On the health issue, you can give data. I have official data showing in Galicia the number of doctors, surgeons, etc. — officers from the Ministry of Social Affairs, who say that health is better, and we will have time in the Committee of Inquiry to do so, unless Mr Villares wishes to sign his particular vote today in conclusion. Because today Mr. Villares seems to have access to a medical record of a deceased person, which is absolutely confidential, but he already knows why a person died and knows exactly what rules they failed. And because we're on a commission of inquiry, because if you don't, you've already sentenced someone. Look, Mr. Villares, health care must be taken care of, because it's a very sensitive subject. Fortunately, we have one of the best sanitation. According to the critics of the management of the Union, we are above average, according to the barometer for the defense of public health, the report that they make, within one of the world's best health, with a huge effort of the healthcare professionals, which, of course, will always fight for no one to die in their hands and will always fight for good health. [[Applause]] Television's been talked about here too. A short time ago, someone said that every politician has a news director on a public television. Mrs. Pontón, in addition to a news director, is a manager, because she's already going over and she wants to arrange for us exactly. Several of the public television spokespersons. I want to remember what's important. What's important is that TV is at a key moment for its future, with the culmination of a scanning process; that's the leader among the autonomics, just ahead of TV3; that's the information reference for the Greeks, who must watch when they take the Colla-Cao with the drugs at night, because they like it and they keep seeing it. An average of 574,000 Greeks contact the information spaces of the TVG and the TVG2. He has his accounts in balance, a healthy economic situation — which was what we asked him to do with the law we passed —. The last exercise was closed, for the ninth consecutive year, with surplus. You don't have bank debt. The per capita cost since 2009 has fallen 22% — the per capita cost of the Corporation —. For the year 2019 you will continue to work with the audiovisual sector, 35 million euros. Manipulation. You see, the current Galician TV address doesn't have a single conviction for information manipulation. Even here this is again a lie, it's not after all. They say that instructions were given, which were not given, to speak of Gürtel for 40 seconds, when it was spoken, with timer, five minutes and ten seconds. What is true is that this TV is nothing else we knew, where, for example, the company's director — Mr. Benigno Sanchez — had to send a letter to the Vice President of the Board — Mr. Anxo Quintana — because his general secretary was obviously exerting pressure. Or, for example, that the Block Spokesman in this House had said that the Bipartite newspapers only served so that the families of some councillors would know if they were going to eat that day at home. And the very spokesperson of the Block—after AGE, at that stage, was in the Block—Mr. Beiras, he literally said, or so he went out in the press, that on the Welsh radio the ones who sent—recommended that they had distributed: socialist management, television, and on the radio was the Block— were the political commissioners of the UPG. [[Murmurs.]] Actually, this isn't the model. It's true that we're slow in law development, but it's also true that some things don't depend on us. For example, I suppose that no one will agree to approve the programme contract when it can impose an important tax cost on the Autonomous Community. There's a question I think you can say. Mr. President, you are the truth that you are able to do two things at once, because, according to some spokesperson, you have reached the tired debate and you have been a terminator. I — the truth — have seen all the films. There are good terminators, bad terminators. The terminating word, therefore, can't be a bad qualification, but what I haven't seen in any of the series of science fiction films is a tired terminator, but always a person or machine -- in this case it's a very active person -- and with projects. And that's exactly what I wanted to say. Here are projects, and projects that work. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares proposed a social pact. Well, we remember how the tides reached the government, saying they were going to fight for the common people, for the social emergency, putting those down in front of everyone, from above. I'm just gonna give you data, because it's good that people know. The Tide in the Coruña was going to budget three million a year for its star project, which was the social income, because they assumed thousands of couñas would ask for it; they finally budgeted one and a half million and finally spent four hundred thousand euros. Today the Town Hall of Coruña is managing two hundred social benefits, the social income, approximately the same number in Santiago; well, only in Coruña does the Union grant two hundred autonomous social incomes. For this is the proportion, these are the data of the social pact, which you already see who actually practices it; 200 against 200 in a municipality where you rule. We're not going to file with the complaints in the late afternoon of the resolution of some cafeteria concerts in the Greek educational centres that reported those of the Marea, when in Coruña, Santiago and Ferrol are delaying between three and nine months in the middle of the grant of the scholarships for the municipal management dining room. And, of course, I won't remember that the money was spent, about 40% of the housing acquisition program, to, instead of buying the ones below, to help those below, to help those on the side, which are completely different things. [[Applause]] It makes us positive with the left in general, with the radical left—to respect what they say. We have a problem: we never know what your model is. First it was Tsipras; when Tsipras doubled his thorn in front of the European Union, as he said in his own language, he became mature. Well, finally, the example of Maduro we haven't heard him in this House for a long time now, because he really has little of an example — he is an example, but he has little of an example. And now they're coming with Portugal. Exactly, what do we envy from Portugal? The public deficit in Portugal? The peas that pay for the use of open roads, how are they in Spain? Because I'm still going to Portugal and I'm still paying the fees that were not paid before and that in Spain they're still unpaid. Or are we envying that end of austerity, that a Portuguese when he goes to a doctor's office has to pay, while in Spain or Galicia we still don't pay? I don't know exactly what they envy, I hope it isn't — because I envy the unemployment rate — that they envy unemployment by the rate of wages they have in Portugal, many points below the wages in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] So it's good to bring a model like Portuguese, much better than Venezuelan, but I certainly don't think it's a matter of envying too much. It was said that there was no project. I have a relationship of projects and a relationship of agreements to which we have reached along what we have in law. We have a lot of agreements, some important, Mrs. Pontón. In macho violence, which also had unanimity, in relation to the ruling of Manada; we had an agreement with the Socialist Party in autonomous financing; another agreement from the whole House for the study of philosophy; an agreement in relation to the staff of Justice, which was finally met and ended the strike; in infrastructure we have agreements with almost all the claims relevant to Galicia, including AP-9; an external action strategy; a Demographic Dynamization Observatory, which works in the presence of the opposition, because the opposition has asked for it and there has been no inconvenience to integrate—they are working there; we hope that, since there are so few ideas for demographic dynamization, both there and where the opposition is, as when the Government brings the law, because they will improve it; we are certainly in agreement—we are working there; we have reached agreement on the peace of Meirá, on forest policy... Well, at last, we have come to many agreements. And today what we had was a president who came with a new plethora of possible agreements to improve the country, to regulate priority business initiatives without bureaucratic procedures. That is because he is envious of Portugal; businessmen envy many of the facilities that businessmen have for installing in Portugal; they have many more facilities and many less bureaucratic obstacles; in fact, there is one that already says: less bad than we have left Portugal, when they heard the rise of pressure on societies in Spain that announces the socialist government. I've brought the creation of a second-opportunity programme to integrate into the labour market youth who don't study or work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u104	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u105	an approach to waste policy aimed at incentives for the reduction and generation of these wastes, a fiscal policy action other than what we are seeing in other administrations, concrete measures to improve the productivity of agricultural holdings, a housing approach based on rehabilitation, an Xacobeo planning in which we invite the opposition to participate and a strategic plan of the Greek economy 2021-2027. It also brought reforms in the social environment, I mentioned health, educational reforms, social policy reforms in the area of dependence and in the Bono Autonomy, the Prevention of Alcohol Consumption Act among Thursdays, minors, reforms in the labour market, advancing social dialogue, and an impetus to demographic change with a new law. It does indeed offer agreement. We, president, from the group will try to reach agreements and improve the rules to follow in the always passionate work of improving the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u106	Thank you, Mr. Puy. The counterreply of the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Pontón, you've reached the gold medal to pass: it became clear in the House that the BNG won the elections to President Fraga. There is no doubt, Your Honor, that I believe that you represent nationalistic posverity is too sophisticated a term. I don't know if we should even call it the possibility to which I'm just a troublemaker. To say a troupe of the size of President Fraga had lost the elections, and consequently the BNG and the Socialist Party had won them, which is indeed a post-truth, Mrs. Pontón. No doubt. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, those who win the elections don't change the cameras, they're the citizens; the chambers, after the elections, choose the president, but they can't change the free and democratic decision of the Greeks when they vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] BNG has never won an autonomous election in Galicia. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Pontón, I'm not going to give names on the subject of Povervisa. It takes a lot of courage to come here and talk about a person who's not there and omit the real data. But how will it not be if you are? Please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u108	Quiet, quiet. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada, don't get into the debate, because, besides, it wasn't about that; here it was wrong, a bit of a leg. We'll leave him there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u109	What would we do without Abel Losed in the House? [[Murmurs.]] Let's go to important issues. Mrs. Pontón, do you know who was Povervisa's assistant director when they arrived at the Government? Do you know the first post you held in the Bipartite? Do you know the second post you held in the Bipartite after you came to be the assistant director of Povervisa? Director General for Health Care. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, are you really not going to withdraw what you just said about convictions with Povervisa after you became part of that parliamentary group that supported the Government every day in the morning, even though they were arguing with him in the afternoon? Mrs. Rocío Mosquera was manager of the Sanatorium of Hope. It's true it's from the same group. Since his termination he was a medical inspector, but he was already opposed. By the way, another Secretary General of Sergas, do you know where he is? In another private hospital in Coruña. The Sergas of the Bipartite, of course. [[Murmurs.]] Do you think it's good that I'm making brave judgments about these professionals? Why do you make a judgment of courage about a person who is not and who deserves all the honour of the House? Mrs Pontón, high office of the Bipartite coming from Povervisa directly, both as President of Galaria — First post of the Bipartite — as Director General for Health Care. Mrs. Pontón, that's the reality, that's the truth. What are we accused of giving money to the Povervisa or not giving it to him? The person who can't be named in the House is in favour of giving Povervisa more money. Don't say Abel Losada doesn't make sense of humor, huh? [[Murmurs.]] Look how she's laughing from the stage. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] Your Honor, I've spent ten years in the public health system, and tell me if I know health. It's an honor to have worked in the public health system, both as general secretary of the Galego Health Service as president of the National Health Institute, and as president of the board right now. I gave the data: when you pressed the Bipartite button, you said you had a 44% increase in private health concerts, and since we got to the government, we've dropped the concerts by 6%. It wasn't Deloitte, Mrs. Pontón, it was KPMG, Ben, it doesn't matter, obviously. The point is that segregating schools by sex is a subject that has occurred to us. For four years the Bipartite extended the concert every year. Every year: 2006, 2007, 2008. And the question is, is it legal or not? It's legal. And do you think the parents and mothers who take children and girls to those schools are younger? Why don't you let them choose? That's our proposal. If they've always existed, why ask me to leave without effect what you haven't left without effect? Why can't parents and mothers in Galicia freely choose to take their children where they consider it appropriate? Your Honor, we have the non-contributory pensions — as far as the counties are concerned and as far as the December payment — which are higher than Spain. Only Andalusia, Extremadura and Galicia have that plus. Why didn't you guys do that, and they had 2,000 million more? Yes, yes, of course, of course. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, 2,000 million euros more. Another thing is that they were left to duty, but theoretically he had us in the budget. He says here we lost a sentence for the minimum services during the 8M strike. Yes, but if I've already said it from the precinct when I was asked. What do you say the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia? We accept all the judgements of the High Court, Mrs. Pontón. I do, but of all the courts. What he says is that of sixty-eight instrumental units, sixty-six have placed the minimum services as they correspond, and two are not; and of fifty-two management centers, fifty have placed the minimum services as they correspond, and two are not. That's the scope and content of the sentence, which you seem to have come here to destroy and make a judgment against all criteria. [[Applause]] Your Honor, I'm going to tell you what we had the opportunity to work in the field of macho violence. In 2002, we made the first Action Plan against Gender Violence from 2002 to 2005. In 2004, the first Equality Act. In 2012, the establishment of local identity networks against gender violence with Fegamp. Since 2013 we have been incarcerated in criminal proceedings as long as there is a masculine violence resulting in death. In 2014, the constitution of the Galego Observatory of Gender Violence. In 2014, the launch of the Centre for Integral Recovery of Women Victims of Violence Machist. In 2016, the Work Insertion Support Programme. In 2016, the reform of the Gender Violence Act, to continuously open requests for periodic assistance to victims. In 2017, the first global protocol for coordination and institutional cooperation. In 2017, the first autonomous community to train the staff of the Union in equality and prevention against violence against men. And in addition, we agreed to the House. But if we're in the Chamber, why do you say what you've been saying all afternoon, not including the insults you're constantly dedicating to me every time you talk about this? Yes, yes, yes, it's in the Session Diary. Yes, that I don't have with women, he literally said yes, yes, yes, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] You can correct it. Literally. [[An unidentified honourable Member: God always.]] But I understand that you insult people or the note, it's that you don't even perceive it, it's part of your usual vocabulary. [[Murmurs.]] Frozen transfers. But what transfers did you get? What about the "intelligent cooperation" you stayed in? What were those years when Catalonia was given what it wanted, including a Status of Autonomy? What were those years for Galicia? [[Murmurs.]] But if you voted that not continuously to the transfer of the freeway from the Atlantic, continuously. And they paid 7 million euros every year, they paid the bill, if they paid Rande's toll and the toll of Barcala, because the socialists didn't raise it if Galicia didn't pay what he shouldn't pay. Look, Your Honor, we've only managed to save 400 million euros in AP-9 transfer from the Greek pocket, much more than you've achieved for four years in terms of transfers. [[Applause]] You're coming back with the Greek electric fare. Who do you want to fool again? You don't explain anything, you don't care, you don't care! If it's important that some of the Greeks pick and believe that if you get to the government, there's going to be a Greek electric fare. They don't know about the Spanish power grid, and we have an electric tariff here. We connect with Portugal, we disconnect with France, we disconnect with the rest of the communities, and we have an electric tariff in Galicia. By the way, the seats that are next to you want to close Meirama and The Bridges, and automatically that power tariff becomes to buy electricity from the rest of the autonomous communities. But what stories you're telling us! Are you in favor of closing Meirama or not? Say it. Move through the forum! Are you in favor of or against closing The Bridges? [[Murmurs.]] If we close The Bridges and Meirama, as the Lords of En Marea propose, — I insist — Galicia is deficient in the production of electricity, and then we create the Greek electric tariff, so that the Greeks pay more for electricity than any other Spanish. That's the BNG proposal. Sounds exactly like concerts, the coupon, the autonomic finance concert. But if even Mr. Leicega had to tell them we lost at least EUR 1 billion a year! But you don't realize, Mrs. Pontón, that you won't be part of the next tripartite government. It's not possible. Imagine that! But Mr. Leicega knows more about funding than you do. Listen to him. If you don't listen to me, listen to him. But if you have him next door, and they're always ruling everywhere, Mrs. Pontón. Who's he trying to fool? The public bank, the electric charge. Look, Mrs. Pontón, with all due respect, I personally appreciate it. Yeah, yeah, it's perfectly possible, don't believe it, eh! It's perfectly possible for a PP MP to appreciate a BNG person; in fact, I don't know if it's possible. [[Laughter]] But this is perfectly possible. [[Murmurs]] Yes, yes. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, I hope you don't criticize me if I tell you I'm not watching TVG right now; I hope you don't criticize me for that. But, I think, all the speeches from all the parliamentary groups are being made. I'm even told that Mr. Villares' intervention coincided at a time when there would be children's programming if they were not being broadcast. Imagine everything you tell me that's happening on the TVG! But, Mr. Leicega, who do you want to fool with the theme of the Galician Radio and Television Company? But do you not know perfectly well that the director of the Galician Radio and Television Company is agreed between the Spanish Socialist Workers Party (PSdEG-PSOE) and the People's Party of Galicia? But do we really talk about this again in a continuous, constant, and continuous way? But don't you know that we have a charge with the central government — public affairs — on the subject of the VAT, and if we make the program contract, we have to pay the VAT? But you don't know that we have a price with them and we don't want to pay the VAT? But do you think the Galicians are stupid and use as a reference channel for information the news continuously manipulated every day by the TVG? Do you think the Greeks can't close this channel and put the channel they want? But exactly what is proposed here? What are you proposing is that we can leave the TV for me and the ministry for you? But this has already been invented by Mr. Churches. Won't you be a follower of Mr. Churches? Of course we will abide by the law, Mr. Leicea, all the laws, because it is bound to comply with them. Mr. Leicega, I'm sorry if I questioned you about something you didn't say. I simply tried to answer in a block to the matters that you and the BNG spokesperson had raised. It's true that you said something that I didn't answer. You were talking about Pemex and Pemex's defaults. Well, today's Economic Counsellor couldn't attend the entire plenary because he went to the boat's boot in Barreras. A 250 million-dollar boat! In a yard where most people have Pemex. In a yard that if Pemex hadn't entered the stockyard, he would be broken at the moment, because there was no partner from Greece who wanted to enter. And why do you despise these kinds of questions? [[Applause]] Yes, yes, yes. You don't despise a great country like Mexico. Besides, now, with the new president, I'm sure it'll be much better. You don't despise those kinds of questions. Look: we did what we could when there was no single boat at any stage, or at any yard of Vigo River. By the way, what a pity you didn't confirm my frigates! I suppose we're still on with that commitment. That's compromised as you know: Ferrol's frigates. How come I don't accept that demography is Galicia's problem? It's Galicia's first problem. I said in the morning that of the ten major issues of the Strategic Plan, I made a report that we met nine and we lacked one, and described demography as the country's first structural problem. What you don't say is there are more childhood schools today than ever. What you didn't say is that today there are more possibilities to reconcile than ever. What you don't say is that in the autonomous community, paternity permits have been placed above the state average, and now it seems like the State General Administration wants to copy them. What you don't say is that in rural there are nest houses, yes, nest houses, yes. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, how are we not going to talk about the Welcome Card? I know you didn't tell me about that, Mr. Villares said about it. Do you know how much we invested in Welcome Card? Thirty-six million euros. Do you know any autonomous community that's investing more? Thirty-six million euros, ladies and gentlemen. Thirty-six million euros! [[Applause]] I didn't mention Mr. Pedro Sánchez, among other things, because I respect the President of my country, and my commitment is to work for Galicia, whoever the President of the Government of Spain is. Don't feel offended, Mr. Leicega. Now, Mr. Pedro Sánchez's political biography has at least two phases. But if I don't say anything wrong! [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] As bad as Mr. Montoro was in the Chamber. [[Murmurs.]] Look, in September 2014 he said: "I will not compromise with populists, neither before nor after the elections." End of date. The second one was in 2016, and he said it in a Córdoba rally, but he also said it in a tweeter, which is the only place that comes out lately, and he says, "Those who said he was going to deal with the independentists so that he could be president now shut up." I didn't tell a lie. That's right. The Socialist Party is delighted with these appointments and, therefore, I hope you will congratulate me on bringing them to the collation. You have no doubt that what the President of the Spanish Government says can't be a spontaneity, it's a very well thought-out thing. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That's why I'm the only one who makes it quote textually the corresponding authority. [[Laughter]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Leicega, let's talk again about what you want. You want to talk to me about Social Security, about the busy Social Security? That's how things are told, because if we don't get into demographics, births, occupations, busy population issues, look, when we get to the board there were 50,800 affiliates less than they fell in the last year. I understand that you're tired of listening. But can you imagine that legacy of reaching an autonomous community that fell into membership of Social Security in the last year more than 50,000 people in one year? Do you know what it's like to climb this up? No surfer can do it! No, no, it's normal to sink. Well, in the last year of the PP, 21,600 more affiliates have grown. But in terms of legislation, from 2016 to now, there are 50,000 more members of Social Security. At the moment of the Social Security membership record, when we arrived at the Government in 2009, there were 1,029.000, and now there are 1,013.000; we have a gap of fourteen thousand. That's how social security affiliations are counted, Mr. Leicega. If you want to bring me polls here, you have the whole right of the world, but of course it's as you count and that's how I think we should count them. Mr. Leicega, I have the utmost interest as a parliamentarian in reaching agreements with you. I expressly congratulated the dictatorship of the Forest Pact. That is in their own interests and in the interests of Socialist Members. They did a good service to the country, have no doubts, say what they say, it doesn't matter; if at the end we're all going out of here and what's left is what you remember. Now it turns out that one of the policies that was part of today's session was Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría, according to the vice, sorry, the spokesperson for the Tide, who if he didn't let me go, I don't know where. What are we left with? What are we left with now, Mr. Villares? That I no longer stand by, that I introduce myself again, that I keep looking at Madrid? Exactly what was your proposal? After 13 years repeating the same thing, I understand you're out of speech. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I was where I was. The question is, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u110	Let's not get into dialogue. I understand that we're already a little tired, but we don't get into dialogues; otherwise, this is endless. Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u111	There's nothing like humility, there's nothing like humility. We'll see how this ends, Mr. Villares. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, from Sogama we had to go up because it was going to break, and, among other things, we had a problem because the electricity that was produced in Sogama didn't count; we had a price with the Government, by the way, with President Rajoy's government, and we won. And since you've recalculated the electricity, then we've begun to rehabilitate Sogama and now we can lower the price of Sogama by 10%. By the way, the municipalities, which transfer the 10% discount directly to the citizens' receipt. Are you going to make the mayors of the Tides? Or are you going to keep increasing Sogama's cannon? [[Murmurs.]] Come here and say that housing rehabilitation is not executed! 80%. Take note, Mr. Villares, you and all the head economists: 80%. What Mr. Villares doesn't know is that rehabilitation programs are transferred to the municipalities and it turns out that the Mareas Town Councils don't run any, (and that's why it's bad for the budget execution. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares, what do you want? What about the housing here? You want me to do your job? The spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group has already done so. Don't make me talk about housing or the town of Coruña, Mr. Villares. No, I won't. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, that I know you once in a while move me the interest you have for the internal problems you have, and I have to act as an ally. Well, look, I'm an ally of the truth, and the truth is that we work with housing, work with evictions, work to regenerate democracy, work for a social integration income for the whole world, and work to try from humility to serve our country. [[Laughter]] The social bond and the electric ticket. You know perfectly well that we gave all the electrical tickets that were requested, all 100%, and now you're saying that if we don't run an electric ticket game. But what manipulation! One more! And it's another, it's constant: that if the rehabilitation of the housing, if the social bond, if the electric ticket, if the rehabilitation areas. But, Mr. Villares, sometimes I don't think it's possible that you say so many things in the wrong way. It's impossible, because, in order to take something that says mediumly serious, you have to pick up a map and a canteen and get properly oriented. And I assure you I don't listen, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Seven thousand five hundred families benefited from the electric ticket. Helps by supply cut, 5,350 homes between 2016 and 2017. All the requests that met the requirements have been met — I say in the Chamber. So, what exactly is we accused of in this matter? You're full of hate, Mr. Villares, yes, yes, yes, probably because you have a lot of hate around you. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] And really to me the only thing that happens to tell me is that good luck in the future, Mr. Villares. If you can argue here intensively! You don't think Parliament was born when you got here, uh, we've been here for a long time. Here were discussions between the president in the debate of the state of autonomy with the rest of the voices, from Camilo Nogueira to Mr. Beiras, Mr. Touriño, Mr. Vázquez, Mr. Guillerme; all of us passed by. I have never seen a Member like you, but in this House there is no one like you. You can discuss it with all the intensity you want, but constantly insulting it with so much sectarianism is inappropriate for a person who simply respects democracy. Let me tell you that you can change, because, if you don't change, that will always take you in your resume, and you won't have any remedy, you won't have any remedy. There you are, because here you are for a while. I don't know how long you have left, but this Parliament has a lot of respect, and I hope that your speech today is a reflection of the lack of parliamentary respect that we hear, not the President of the Union — that I am used to — or the members of the Government — that we are too. How can you call a government member "commissary"? Do you think you're superior to others? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u112	The expression has been removed. I have her removed, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u113	I removed it from the Journal of Sessions, but it remains in the memory of the parliamentarians, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, serving Galicia means responding to Galicia's needs and priorities, and that's what we're talking about when we refer to Galicia in the year 2021 and so on, which we want to build. A Galicia, as we said, that if you want more of yourself, a Galicia with more well-being and that you care more of yourself, a Galicia that doesn't put up a roof and create new opportunities in the education system, a Galicia that opens doors from high-speed train to tourists and open identity. The Greeks are free and plural, the Greeks are Spanish and we are European, and that is why we are defenders of the Statute of autonomy and constitutional Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, just as you walk on foot, Galicia is made to rule. Nine years after he went up to this same forum for the first investment speech, there is a Galicia that has advanced since then, with less unemployment than in 2009; with more job opportunities than we were when we arrived; with more initiatives in the fisheries and agriculture sectors; with less public deficit than most autonomous communities; with the most controlled public debt of all autonomous communities in Spain; with more exports and more investments and more innovation; with more pilgrims than ever in our history, with more tourists coming to Galicia and coming back; with better results and better prospects for automotive, textile and naval; with better public health with better services, with more hospitals, with more health centers and with more professional; with the best educational results from which there are balances, with more languages, with more technology and with more freedom in classrooms; with better road infrastructures, more efficient and more awareness in the environment; with better gift for the better than for the better blues than for the better future. Nine years later Galicia has a more committed government, with more experience and more balance, especially with a project that has the stability necessary to ensure institutional stability in Galicia from here to the end. All this, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the Greeks and the Greeks, those who vote in Galicia, those who choose the House and those who choose the Government, and for the Greeks, will be the measures that we announce in this debate: fewer taxes, less taxes to buy a housing, less can to pay the garbage, more public aid for the homes of older people, more facilities to mobilize rural lands, more incentives to rationalize water consumption with a water pact that we propose to all the municipalities, with more routes on free buses for young people and girls under the age of 19, with better working conditions and pay for the more than 90 thousand families working in the public sector of the Union of Galicia, with more support for the Galician people who need it, with more investment in improving hospitals and health centres, with more resources for the elderly and homes of the largest, with more commitments to convert ourselves into the same level of loyalty to strengthen the same level. Ladies and gentlemen, today Galicia does not need to copy any other autonomous community. Here are examples, examples of foresight in the face of improvisation, example of responsibility in the face of irresponsible rulers, example of the future in the face of those who obsessively look at the past, example of coexistence in the face of intolerants, example of the country project against whom they only care about surviving. So, as I've said on one occasion, to the representatives of the Spanish people, both in the Central Government and in the communities, we propose that they look at Galicia, who look at the whole of the Greek people, who look at the men and women who make up this people. This people is right to be proud of what they are, they're right to be proud of what they've achieved, and they're right, without any doubt. Why does this people know we're better than in 2009? The answer is yes. If we're going to be better than 2020, the answer in my opinion is that it's very likely. And what's left to do? All the Greeks know there's a lot to do. The key question is how we want to keep working for a better Galicia, and I propose to work together. Let's not stop showing that pride in Galicia that we want to build, and let's not stop claiming the best face Galicia has in the peoples of Spain and in the peoples of Europe. Let's not stop working with anticipation and weaving new consensus for Galicia in the year 2021 and so on, because, ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 Xacobeo will not only be a Holy Year, it will be the declaration of intentions of everything Galicia wants to be in the next decade: a well-kept land, an integrating land, a land that takes advantage of its potential and a land that has much to reach the third decade of the 21st century. Let's not stop doing that joint work, so that Galicia of the 21st century is Galicia where we feel most proud. That is what I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, and from now on that will be our commitment to this day. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-09-DSPG084.u114	Thank you, President. Before suspending the full, an important thing. Let's read it so it's clear and we don't have any problems tomorrow or last. Parliamentary groups may submit a maximum of 40 motions for resolutions per group referred to in Article 141 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and the Bureau's agreement, heard by the Speakers' Committee on 18 September, to the broad lines of general, non-local policy, of simple wording, which cannot give rise to a separate vote within each proposal, and will be presented before 10.30 a.m. Wednesday, 10 October, in the General Register of the House. The Bureau will then proceed at 12 noon and then distribute to parliamentary groups all the proposals accepted. The deadline for the submission of the proposals and the request for separate groupings or votes of the proposals will end on Wednesday, October 10, at 22.30 p.m., and will be qualified by the Bureau the following day, Thursday, October 11, at 9.30 a.m. Now yes, there's no more business. We suspended the session until Thursday at 11 o'clock.
