ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u1	Good morning. We resume the session, with agenda item 5, which corresponds to questions for oral reply by the President of the Union. We started with the question of Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the date scheduled by the Government of Greece for the referral to the Galician Parliament of the audit of KPMG which allegedly recommended the merger of the Greek Savings Boxes
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u2	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u3	Thank you very much. Good morning, Mr. President. I hope you are already recovering from this sad attack that you have suffered after knowing your friend Eduardo Zaplana's arrest for money laundering and bribery, one of these new isolated cases of corruption within the People's Party. [[Applause]] In any case, corruption has a lot of faces, and you haven't given any explanation about some very serious facts that define it as a real hostel. And for all this since BNG we ask you a question that is very clear: do you think you can continue as President of Galician Union after lying to the Greeks and Greeks on such a serious subject as the financial system? Do you think you could continue as president after you falsified an audit that cost us EUR 1 million and that it turned out that it was neither audit nor recommended the merger of the boxes? Their lies and their falsifications came out very close to this country, they assumed the liquidation of our financial system, the sale at the balance price of our boxes, the disappearance of thousands of jobs in the banking sector and the annual flight of more than 15,000 million euros from the Greek savings. We've just seen how his party partner, the president of Madrid, Mrs. Cifuentes, had to resign for falsifying a master. And you're here to convince us that falsifying an audit has no problem and that you don't have to explain the decisions that led to the liquidation of the Greek financial system and that you left a fiasco of more than 9,000 million euros. I remind you, Mr Feijóo, that documentary falsehood and prevarication are crimes that are enshrined in the Criminal Code. In any case, we understand much better today why you prevent this Parliament from knowing the audit in its full version. We now understand much better why you continue to prevent this box research committee from doing its job. [[Applause]] And today we understand that a former cash executive, shielded with millionaire compensation, says at the Congress of Members who don't remember if they forgave their party 1.8 million euros of debt. For all this, BNG's claims are very clear. First of all, we want the veto to be lifted to the Box Research Committee and to face this Parliament. Secondly, to send us the full audit of this Parliament and the contract for which we have paid EUR 1 million. And thirdly, Mr. Feijóo, to apologize to the Greeks and to the Greeks for their lies and for their falsifications. I think if I had a bit of a smell, I'd quit, because the Greeks and the Greeks don't deserve a president to lie to them. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You ask me to send a documentation that is in this Parliament, not for five weeks or five months, but for five years; and it's not a small documentation, it's 34 boxes and 300,000 sheets. Obviously, Your Honor, if anyone has to resign, it's you. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, you don't know what a due diligence is or what an audit is or what a review and analysis of financial records is. You probably don't know anything about this, he doesn't care! Because if there was a group that didn't need an audit, it was the BNG. This is the motion registered in Parliament, which in order to reach an agreement with you unanimously automatically proposed that a merger should not be submitted to an audit. Second lie, Mrs. Pontón, second cause of resignation from your lordship. [[Applause]] Your Honor, if you had been to the Box Commission, where Mr. KPMG appeared, you could read the following: "As for the scope of the work, it was exclusively to analyze the viability of the merger. He didn't go into pros and cons of the operation, but just to see if that operation could or wouldn't do it." That's what Mr. KPMG said. So, Your Honor, in 2013 and 2018 at the Congress of Deputies, Mr. KPMG said exactly the same thing: that what the Council of Galicia charged was whether or not it met and whether it was viable or not. The answer was yes, no palliatives. But the most important thing is not just what KPMG said. Look, Your Honor, you're hiding in the House — and therefore you're lying again at parliamentary headquarters — that there are three more audits: Auditor Boston Consulting Group and Price Waterhouse, in the investigation commission. The merger business plan developed by Deloitte and Price Waterhouse in the investigation committee; it is here in Parliament. A stress test of the European Union on 23 July 2010; it is in Parliament. The favourable report of the Ministry of Economics for Merger; it is in Parliament. A report by the National Competition Commission of 19 November 2010; it is in Parliament. A report from the European Commission; it is in Parliament. And nothing more and nothing less than a notification from the Banco de España, which accepted, evaluated the merger, approved the merger plan the Banco de España on July 29, 2010; it is in Parliament. And if you — as it is logical — are not interested in Parliament or interested in the truth, here's the letter from the Bank of Spain, notified to the Business Council, where it supports the merger. [[Mr. President of the Galician Union, Núñez Feijóo, shows a document]] Mrs Pontón, the motion submitted by the BNG on 10 November 2010 said: "The Galician Parliament urges the Union to defend that the decision-making centres of the Greek savings banks remain in Galicia." We adopted it with the votes of the People's Group. We tabled an amendment to that motion, saying, "guaranteeing in turn solvency and efficiency." You refused to make a pact and to vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u7	What was the rapporteur of that refusal to accept that amendment? A BNG advisor, who turned out to have to resign for being investigated by Justice. Mrs. Pontón, there's a big difference between this group and your group. I don't have anyone from the Government in that circumstance. You ruled Galicia throughout history four years, there you are, Justice...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u9	...and his background. But, Mrs Pontón, if you have to resign a Member in the German Parliament right now, there is no doubt about it. In addition to other parliamentary groups, you have just renounced your own political biography. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I, Mr. Feijóo, do not accept any lessons of honesty or dignity to a president and a militant from the People's Party, to a president who has relations with a drug dealer, to a president who has been high office... [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u12	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u13	...of the most corrupt government known in the history of the Spanish State, the Government of Aznar, which I think I remember, Mr Feijóo, that you defined as — I think it was — the Government of prosperity. [[Applause]] We're already seeing the prosperity of those in that government of Mr. Aznar! And, in any case, Mr. Feijóo, I ask you to abandon your paternalism, because here the only thing that lies and forgeries was you. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I've actually been, I'm, and I'm going to be in favour of having a Greek financial system in this country. Obviously, in view of the results, you didn't defend Galicia's interests, you allowed Newgaly Bank to be sold, when we're seeing that it would bring benefits, and you didn't move a finger to steal that operation. Therefore, who will have to explain it is you, Mr Feijóo, who, in truth, betrayed the interests of this country and allowed a fraudulent sale of Novagalicia Banco, which we are actually seeing as viable. But the debate about what we are talking about is that you sold us, by land, sea and air, that there was an audit that — I remind you — is not in this Parliament, Mr Feijóo. I even went back to that box committee yesterday — which is kidnapped — to see that secret documentation and all we have is a 40-sheet powerpoint, and you won't tell me that we paid EUR 1 million for that powerpoint. If you don't have any problems, why don't you report and make that audit public? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Who said it was an audit isn't this group, Mr. Feijóo, you said it. Here are the press notes and their own statements: the external audit commissioned by the Galician Board to KPMG. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo shows a document]] This is the official information I was transmitting to the Galician Board telling us that there was an audit that wasn't. We are not talking here today, Mr Feijóo, about what is the position each group has with regard to the financial system. The BNG is where it was. What we are talking about is three very specific proposals: will you first lift the veto to the Box Research Committee? Yes or no? Secondly, will you send this Parliament full documentation — not a powerpoint, which doesn't even let us copy — of an audit that cost us EUR 1 million and nobody knows how it was hired? And thirdly, if you're going to apologize to the Greeks and to the Greeks for their lies. I insist: if I had a little smell...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u15	...it would resign, because this country does not deserve a president who lies to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. 100 sheets, 100 pages, that's what's in this investigation commission about that audit, 100 pages. Obviously, that doesn't concern you, why are you going to worry her? In addition to the due diligence, KPMG audit, you don't cite the audit of the Boston Consulting Group or the Price Waterhouse audit, or the merge plan developed by Deloitte, or the merger plan developed by Price. You don't quote that each box commissioned an audit to see the accounts in the other box, and they did two cross-checks. You don't quote that. You don't quote the authorizations of all European and Spanish regulators. You don't quote Banco de España's authorization. Do you all lie, Mrs. Pontón? Do you all lie except yourself, Mrs. Pontón? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, I can't believe a member, a spokesperson for the BNG, just said what you just said. It's an amazing thing about your group's political biography and your own political biography. You mind in an absolutely trendy way. He doesn't care. The important thing is to look for some ransom to take away the great merit that the Greek Parliament has had and the great merit that the Government of Galicia had by saving a financial entity that gives work to 12,000 people. That doesn't matter to you. [[Applause]] Take it all away! Mrs. Pontón, you must be very desperate to reach this position. Mrs. Pontón, what the audit says, page 6 — read it, please — "The key ratios of the merged entity in terms of solvency, profitability, efficiency and wholesale funding, obtained by 2015 after the return of FROB's aid, correspond to an entity with prospects for viability." What it says is, "The projections indicate that the merged entity in 2015 will have high profitability and efficiency and an adequate solvency level" —page 8 of the audit. But, Mrs. Pontón, who are you deceiving? The KPMG representative at the Congress of Deputies a few days ago said: robust methodology, independence and 50 people working for more than a month. What he says is that the second phase, made by other entities, already with cross audits — one entity has audited another — and bodies that supported the merger validate the work done. What you say, Your Honor, is that there's a viable entity five years from now. I don't say it, say it to the audit itself. But there is no audit: there are three audits, two validated business plans and the Bank of Spain. But, Mrs. Pontón, what do you come to defend here, what do you come to defend here, Mrs. Pontón? You mean, during these years, that you have the audit report at your disposal, you haven't done your job, you haven't even read it, didn't you even know it was at your disposal? Why didn't you say what you just said in the audit committee? What has changed, Mrs. Pontón? Are you against Galicia having its own financial entity? Mrs. Pontón, what would you prefer then: that the boxes were cleared and that we went with the headquarters in Madrid or Valencia? Mrs. Pontón, what are we talking about? Do you know what reminds me of your position? To an ex-Director of the Greek Savings Boxes. Literally, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] Do you agree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u19	...with some ex-directors from the Greek savings boxes. The BNG never fell so low. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Let's move on to the next question. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the opinion of the Government of Galicia on the results of the last known assessments of the public health system of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u21	Whenever you want, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u22	Good morning, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. The two most worrying problems in Galician citizenship are employment and health, areas in which, in our view, their Government has profound weaknesses. But today we want to talk about health. In the last health barometer, published a few weeks ago, more than 75% of the Greeks said that health reforms were needed, of different intensity, but 75% wanted reforms, a percentage that should move it to reflection. This barometer also points out that it is the third autonomous community with more dissatisfied citizens in the field of health, the third in the tail, and in a frank retreat against the views gathered in recent years. We are concerned, because years of cuts, of precariousness, of planning deficit are testing the strength of our health system. Despite the commitment and professionalism of the staff working in health care, the system's functioning is starting to feel bad. It is true that for hospital care or urgent care citizenship still prefers public health, and for the other, but there is a strong retreat from support for public health in areas such as primary care, consultations or specialized care, with a very strong increase in those who prefer to go to private, 5% in a year, which is a particularly intense increase. And the problem is not the professionals -- in the barometer, the professionals get well valued -- the problem is the waiting lists, which increase according to the perception of citizens, in the primary care consultations, and which are fired at specialized care consultations from already worrying values, creating situations that, as you know, are sometimes dramatic. But it's just that saturation and precariousness are also questioning citizens' perception of hospital care. Two months ago, I gave you the example of Vigo's EOXI. In trauma, 10,000 patients on waiting lists. And, given the different phases of the system, not the last one, but all, since the beginning of the consultations, diagnostic tests have to be done, and finally the interventions, the average waiting list: 300 days, with a lot more people waiting for a lot more. The barometer tells us exactly that there are 14% of patients in all the specialties and in all the areas they wait for a specialist to consult more than six months. It is true that other waiting lists are published by the Ministry that give smaller data for surgery, but the problem is the whole process, and in the whole process we are much worse. Yesterday we knew the case of a person who's been waiting for four years for an intervention, besides, that's off the list, and it's not a single case, it's a case that has a certain frequency, and this concerns us; and besides, it's not on the lists, it's not on the lists, it's a problem. The equation is simple -- it's finished -- less personal and more precarious means more waiting lists, more private attention derivation and a certain disorganization of the system. And we believe that this is due and combatable, that private health is not necessary to become a structural resource of the public system, in Vigo or in Cee. This problem is taking place in all the health areas. We must put more commitment, that is, more budget and more resources and a determined political will to change — let's say —
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u24	...the inertia the public health system has had in recent years. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, are you willing to address the concerns of citizens and implement the reforms that the public health system needs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u25	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. You bring me the last health barometer published by the Ministry of Health and, as you know, these barometers are published annually from 2002 until 2017, and I'm surprised you don't tell me that this is the best barometer in the entire series published by the Ministry of Health. I am surprised because, indeed, the assessment of the Welsh public health is from 0 to 10, from 6.68. And I'm surprised because it's the best rating in the whole series since 2002. I'm surprised, Your Honor, that you're trying to teach us lessons about what we should do with health care, because during the years 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, where you managed health care, the score was obviously lower, and that's why we're surprised at that lesson about what we should do in health care. Look, Your Honor, what I'm telling you is, if you ask me if I'm fully satisfied with the health data, I'd lie to you if I told you yes. But what we can't hide is that this data on public health in Galicia is the best since the Ministry of Health's health barometer was published. Mr. Leicega, that surprises you to tell us. [[Applause]] Of course, Your Honor, I am also surprised that you criticize primary care when we are above the average of Spain, that you criticize emergency care when we are above the average of Spain or that you criticize other considerations. If you ask people who have used health services — which would be interesting — you will understand, for example, that Galicia has a favourable score of 88.5% of those who use health care and Spain 87.4%. In emergencies, in Galicia 84.7 % in favour and in Spain 78.1%. I'm surprised, Your Honor. And, above all, what surprises me — you, who likes to analyze the data — is that you don't see that the trend of all barometers is favourable to Galicia; that is, in 2003 in primary care they valued 79%; in 2009, when you ruled, 84%; and in 2017, 88.7%. You talk about external consultations, because in 2009, when you ruled, 75% in favor, and now 78% in favor. You speak of emergencies -- when they ruled, 78%, and now 84.7%. Man, I don't think it's a minor matter. By the way, the Greeks in the middle of Spain are the populations who choose most to use public health services. In other places in Spain they prefer to use private health. I suppose, Your Honor, this is not a minor matter. But, of course, if you ask me what we're going to do, because what we're going to do is, for example, not to forget that the budget, despite having less money than ever, the health has increased by 252 million euros. When you were ruling, there were 252 million euros less, that is, 7% less, and now there are 1,500 people working more on health care. Yes, Mr. Leicega. And if you want to transfer me to the law of waiting list insurance, the second opinion of the hospital, the second opinion of pediatrician, doctor, nurse, all of this didn't exist. Nor did telephone care in primary care exist. So, Mr. Leicega, what we're doing is improving health, and the Greeks see it that way. After consultation, barometer after barometer, public health in Galicia is better today than ever. That's what the Greeks say and the statistics say. Now, tell me about the waiting list. Mr. Leicega, I suppose we'll both have a chance to discuss the waiting list in the replica. You just got to know the data yesterday. Do you have the data from yesterday's Ministry of Health waiting list?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u28	Are you omitting that information to the House? I'll give it to you. I say so that they won't say that in the reply Mr. Feijóo says things he doesn't say in the question. Not only do I warn you, but I propose that we jointly analyze the data from the waiting list for all health services in Spain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u30	Yes, just to score. As you're talking about the increase in your budgets, you have to discount inflation and then you know that today you're spending a lot less than it was spent in 2009 considering the IPC, about 13%. And on the other hand, another fact, Mr Feijóo: 6.68 is how they value it in Spain, in Galicia is 6.49, the third worst note of all autonomous communities. That's what needs to be checked out. We're the third ones in the queue. I thought, after ten years, you'd be pretending to be better, not compared to what happened ten years ago, because you've been ruling for ten years. And that's what you have to do -- I think it's like me -- a president who's a solvent president. And the problem is that there is too much precariousness and lack of political will to deal with this. I gave you a data a few months ago: 26% of the staff who work professionally in Sergas are working in precarious conditions. And your counselor, when asked about it, in the press, says, that's what there is, you have to work for hours, you have to work for days. And that's what there is. That's what he says in his interviews. [[Murmurs.]] We have to make an effort to give stability to all the professionals, because this would make it possible to substantially increase the effectiveness of public health and give it a different perspective to work in Sergas. The Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, who also works in Sergas, said the other day: we formed the best ones, the number two and four of the MIR this year were formed in Santiago, but we couldn't put them here and those who are left have few prospects because they end the MIR and we don't take the steps to renew the public health staff. This is a real problem, we need to change these things. We cannot condemn ten years of forced labor those who enter public health with low wages, precariously, with frequent displacements, without knowing what will happen tomorrow. That's why I'm making three proposals. The first proposal is a catalogue of services for all hospitals, including comarcas, so that what is done in one of them, in one of the comarcas hospitals, is done in the rest, within four years, bringing health closer to citizens. Secondly, to modify the Health Insurance Act, to, where there are derivations that exceed a certain percentage, make a shock plan and reduce those derivatives to private. And thirdly — and most importantly — a staff plan that acts on the MIR squares, which acts on the system squares, because it increases demand; we have a population that is older than before and increases demand and we need more professionals by strengthening the system, reducing precariousness to half and giving the professionals a way out. And by the way, you can also develop your career, which has been stopped since 2008. Let's make an effort to listen to people's opinions, which tells us waiting lists are worse than a year ago, Mr. Feijóo. That's what people say when asked, not Sergas' lists, that don't include non-structural lists, and that, for example, in surgical care they only count from the moment the operation is scheduled, that they call it to do the operation, and so there's a problem of complicit as well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u32	We listen to people, we detect where the problems are and we act firmly and with a desire for change. It would be the system much better, the most happy professionals, Sergas would be more solid and better served. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u33	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close the question, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leiceaga, you're right, I've been wrong; indeed, it's not 6.68, it's 6.49; you're absolutely right. What you don't admit is that when I ruled the Bipartite, they didn't go from the 5. I suppose that wasn't a minor matter, Mr. Leicega. [[Murmurs.]] You're talking to me about inflation, which needs to be discounted. No, Your Honor. What we have to discount is the 2,000 million euros that have left us alone; that's what we have to discount, Mr. Leicega. You, with more money, worse health and worse citizens' worth, and we, with less money, better health and better citizens' worth. [[Applause]] That's the summary, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] Of course, you're telling me about staff, from 2099 to 2017, the public job offer of health personnel amounts to 6,133 people, and now we have a pact -- I don't know if you know it -- for a plan of stability in the Sergas of 5,000 new squares. This means that the Galego Health Service will be the health service with less percent of the interinity of the entire national health system. What are you talking about? What covenant are you talking about? That covenant is already signed, Mr. Leicega, it is signed, I assure you. Just like the 700 million euros we have invested in hospitals since we arrived at the Union, as we have achieved twice as many out of outpatient surgeries as you were getting, with less money, as we have approved a maximum waiting period law in this Parliament, sixty days, this government, in full economic recession. Mr. Leicega, do you know how many people have benefited already? 7,300. Do you know what you said? That this was privatizing health. Do you know how many of these 7,300 operations were performed in the public system? All of them. You tell me about that Vigo person. I'm sorry about your situation. Why don't you complete the reading of all the news and tell the House that that person actually says he's offered to do his surgical intervention in another hospital and he says no? What's the matter, Your Honor? [[Murmurs.]] That we can't have the whole hospital network available to the Greeks? You used to spend a lot more on that concept than we did. Yes, yes, Mr. Leicega, it is not so, no; yes, Mr. Leicega, yes. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But, Mr. Leicega, it's amazing that you tell me about health, and that's why I'm interested that you keep talking about health, and I say it from absolute tranquility and from absolute affection and admiration. I said we were going to talk about the waiting list. This waiting list is before the health barometer; it just came out, three days ago. Are you not satisfied that Galicia is the fourth best autonomous community in the state on a waiting list? Don't you think that's a good data? The waiting list is done exactly with the same methodology throughout Spain. The average in Galicia is 66 days, and in Spain is 106 days. Do you want me to check out the average waiting list in Andalusia or Castela-La Mancha, where do you have a big health plan? Mr. Leicega, we have a public health service with one of the oldest populations in Europe, we are enduring the economic crisis and we are enduring and investing more than ever, we have made more interventions than ever, there is a better waiting list since there are records and evaluation in the Ministry's health barometer is the best since 2002. That's why, Mr. Leicega, I'm surprised you're talking about trauma. The waiting list says in traumatology the average delay in Galicia is 85 days, and in Spain 130 days. That's what the waiting list says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u36	What the waiting list says is that in Spain 17% of patients wait more than six months, and in Galicia 4%. But you don't feel satisfied with this data? Is the Socialist Party really going to teach us how to manage public health? Mr. Leicega, I am proud to be president of a demanding people. I'm proud to be president of a people who demands us every day more, but I'm also proud of the professionals and the Greek health system. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u37	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the transfer to citizenship of true and complete information regarding the motivations of the government action of the Union of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u38	Whenever you like, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, let's see, let's start by clarifying one thing: from 2010 to 2016 you said that what KPMG was assigned to you was an audit; a week ago he said it wasn't an audit; and now, ten minutes ago, he just said it was an audit again. Can you clarify and tell us what you've really been given? And, in that case, can you also clarify us when you were lying, if you were lying last week, mind now, you lied in the last seven years? Can you explain when that lie happened? See, Article 30 of the Galician Autonomy Statute collects the exclusive competence of our Autonomous Community in the field of savings banks. You had the competence and, therefore, the obligation to keep an eye on the savings boxes, and instead of exercising the competition, you exercised incompetence to destroy the Greek financial system, to make a decision that had already been taken earlier and based on a document that really didn't say what that document should say, and that's why you based that statement on a lie, that was to say that there was an audit when it was not — or today you said that it was — then you lied last week again — and that you didn't also recommend the merger of the boxes. Could you clarify, then, that we must accept the President's question and statement, if this week, the previous year or the previous years? We'd like to know, because apart from that, this discussion would be a little useless if we solved it in the following way: that the Galician Board would present in this House the letter of order it made to the consultant KPMG. It's easy: if there's so much documentation and you can come here and bring a document, as you just presented before, any document, bring the document in the order letter. Bring him in and then we got out of doubt, and we know if he was lying this week, last week, or three weeks ago. See Law 30/1992 — applicable at the time that KPMG was charged — the Law of the Common Administrative Procedure and Law 30/2007 on public sector contracts obliged the Galician Board to form a file and to document in writing that letter of payment, that letter of order to KPMG. If it doesn't exist, two illegalities were committed, because of the violation of those two rules by the Galician Union. Did you commit those two illegalities to Galician Union? Yes or no? If you did not commit them, where is that document? Second legal question. Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure of this House, like Law 1/2016, of transparency and good governance of Galicia, obliges you to submit such documentation to this House. In the case that documentation exists, that letter of order exists, and it is not brought in even though it is requested, you are committing two other legal offences. Therefore, four. Look, the Parliamentary Group of En Marea has still asked again, reiterated this documentation last week, which has been systematically denied to you. Well, we have that request, but we've asked for another additional documentation: the reports of the Fatenda technicians in which his advisor Marta Fernández Currás also said he was based to say that the merger of the boxes was the best decision he could make at that time the Greek Government. All right, if the decision was so good, first, why did they lie about the KPMG document? Where's the order letter going? And why don't the reports of the Fatenda technicians appear, who were also requested by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea? Is it so serious what you have to hide that you have to systematically deny these documents to this House, thus committing the illegalities that we have just told you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u40	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u41	Mr. Villares, I hope that during his years of justice he had not politicized Justice, but, of course, what he does frankly and extraordinaryly is to judge politics. There you are. You're still imputing on the basis of that preterite toga, because you don't even know what you're talking about, you have no idea what you're talking about. I suppose, the moment we did the boxes, you were in the BNG. Ah!, wasn't it BNG? [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Ah! well, sorry! I wasn't in the BNG. You'd be in exchange now for one of Anova's. Or are you really one of Podemos or the anticapitalist current of Podemos? Exactly, where are you? I know where I was. What we don't know is where you were. That's why you have no idea what you're talking about. [[Murmurs.]] You have 300,000 documents, 300,000 leaflets in Parliament, no consultation, 34 boxes, no consultation, and a judge doesn't even know what a due diligence is, you don't know what it is, neither does he distinguish a due diligence from an audit, nor does he know whether it's similar or what it's like or what the preliminary report is, he doesn't know that there are three audits, two merger reports, a Banco de España deal. They all lie, except Mr. Villares, who doesn't know what he's talking about, once again. Mr. Villares, you're not in a position to be a Member of this House, you're not in a position to be a Member of this House. [[Applause]] Mr. Villares, a preliminary financial due diligence is an investigation or audit process that takes place around a company or person with whom a potential buyer or investor will conduct a business. It's also called review and analysis of its financial records, that's what it's called. Look at what Mr. Villares knows that he blames me for handling the boxes, when I was in opposition. Look, when we left the Government, the real estate credit for the savings banks in 2005 was 3,500 million; when we arrived at the government, it was 17. billion. When we were in the opposition, we were responsible for the financial custody of the boxes. Mr. Villares, you don't know, you don't even know what you're talking about. Boston Consulting Group audit, Price Waterhouse audit, business plan prepared by Deloitte, business plan prepared by Price Waterhouse, stress test of the European Union, report of the Ministry of Economy, report of the National Competition Commission, explicit authorization of the Banco de España in letter of June 29, 2010. Who's lying here? How many crimes do all these people charge? [[Murmurs.]] Everyone, Mr. Villares, everyone falsified, they're all liars, they're all sloppy, except you, Mr. Villares, who doesn't even know what the competition of the Banco de España is or what the competition of the Junta de Galicia, or who ruled the Junta de Galicia when the savings banks entered into a firing real estate system and a firing opening of offices outside Galicia, with a maturity of more than 10%. Your Honor, who was ruling were the parties you were sympathetic to and we were in opposition. Not a word from the Bipartisan Government about the savings boxes, not a word in four years. And I have to find out, Your Honor, at a Zarzuela hearing about the situation of Galician savings boxes. But what am I accused of? To defend Galicia? I accept. What am I accused of? To defend 12,000 jobs? I accept. What am I accused of? To have a financial headquarters in Galicia? I accept. What am I accused of? Not to succumb to the Banco de España? I accept. What am I accused of? To defend the country? Don't have any doubt, Mr. Villares: he has a lot left to defend the country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u42	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u43	Mr. President, don't get nervous, don't go in the branches. The petition was very concrete, we told you about two very specific documents, and we gave you four rules that underpin your obligation to present them in this House. It is so easy, so simple: the normative basis for what you have to do and therefore the flagrant and systematic failure to comply with your obligations, not only for Parliament, but for the Galician assembly. That's what you're failing to do. But don't get nervous, and give us that document, that letter of command that would specify what was asked of KPMG, whether you were asked for an audit or asked for something else. More like a letter to the letter than you wanted to know and what you didn't want to know, they preferred not to touch anything, because of due diligence, the accelerated diagnosis, which is how it is used, is something that, unlike the audit, doesn't contrast the taxation and valuation of the assets that give you the reference agencies, and that's why you preferred to order one thing and not another. We know that. That's why you lied, so you lied and grounded your decision in a lie. If the merger was so good, why are you hiding that letter of order? Show us that letter of order, show us the documents, the reports of the Technicians of Fairy. That's easy. You show us those two documents that the Galician Union has one of two: or it doesn't have, and therefore it has incured illegality, or it has and doesn't show them, and therefore it incurs illegality. Then clear: which illegality are you in, apart from lying? [[Murmurs.]] No, explain it, because you have a lot to explain in this House. Perhaps his decision was made in advance, and it is a decision consistent with the bank oligopolie to end the savings boxes because they were left or taken away or competed with them, even in a social key, about the role that the banks wanted to play in this country; or because there was a commitment, also by the banking power, to recentralize and end the Greek financial system, which was produced by the annihilation of the savings boxes. So you used the competition that assigned you article 30 to completely undo the muscle of the Greek financial system, and that's unforgivable. You say it was the best decision possible to end thousands of jobs all over the country. Yes, yes, yes, ask all the former cashier if they're happy with that situation. But, moreover, and above all, with that decision you have produced territorial exclusion—in how many small and medium-sized towns have closed branches precisely for this?—and, in addition, by promoting the oligopolie of a few banking entities in Galicia, leaving the effective competition as well. How much credit, in addition, if you have now denied families, small and medium-sized enterprises and cooperatives for this decision? Home, the best decision for Galicia, the best girl! You'll be happy! I'm going to finish, Mr. President. Look, the lies suppose the rulers' sunset, and there's the case of their sad friend Zaplana, just like the case of Cifuentes, like the case of Mouse, like the case of Count Roa. They all started with lies and ended up out of politics for lying, because usually behind a lie there's something to hide, something that's usually wrong; they're hard to drag chains that sometimes drag into jail. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u44	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You didn't go to the cashier's board, you went to observers, you still don't know exactly why, and you should, but your leader then didn't come when the former cashier's directors came, he didn't. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, you have a Member there who can tell you about it. [[Murmurs.]] All you ask is in those 300,000 sheets. But if you don't care, but if you're in this, I'm really -- I'm telling you with absolute peace -- listen. I hope you touch the zanphon better than the box theme, because you play with your ear. [[Laughter]] Mr. Villares, what did you want? Which Galician Box went to Bankia and that Caixanova went to the Civic Bank and then to the Box? Is that what they wanted? I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, just. And the BNG, then, neither. Now that you've lost the sense of proportionality, I don't know. What are you accusing? The Banco de España doesn't do his job? All the audit companies that did the merger plan and the cross-checkers that didn't do the job, and that weren't audits? Are you accusing the European Union that the money you accepted for Novacaxagalicia was a money made since the absolute lack of rigor and prevarication? Who are you accusing? Look, Your Honor, the two boxes couldn't exist, none of them, that we all know, except those who want to keep falsifying the story and lying to the good-faith Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, why KPMG? Look, I'll explain. Because the auditors in those boxes were Deloitte, Price, Boston Consulting Group. They couldn't have been. We met with the boxes and gave them to choose between KPMG and Ernst & Young, the only ones that were unrelated to the boxes. And what did the boxes decide? KPMG Elixir. [[Murmurs.]] But I can repeat it. You haven't heard what a due diligence is or what an audit is, which we're talking about in accounting terms, in financial terms, of synonyms. What does that audit say? So I would like to reiterate: that they correspond to an entity with a viability perspective, that the projections indicate that the merged entity in 2015 will have profitability, high efficiency and appropriate solvency level. Look, but here's more substantive issues, obviously. A member of your group says you're a trendy person. No, no, no, no. [[Murmurs.]] But really, don't you even read the press? This question is absolutely biased, but as one member of your group says that you are one more Member, consider it simply not as a question of a spokesman, but one more Member. But what surprises me, Your Honor, is that you come here to speak strictly, to ask for information, when you are in a group of a member of the European Parliament who has just asked for the vote in the elections of Venezuela for Maduro and when you have in this House another Member who has appeared in the gallery with a T-shirt: "Chávez, I swear, we shall vote for Maduro." [[Murmurs.]] Does Mr. Maduro's democratic banking model sound good? Your Honor, how can you come here to talk about the banking system... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u46	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u47	...and ask for the vote for Mr. Maduro at the same time? How can you ask for true information here and at the same time ask for the vote for Mr. Maduro, Mr. Villares? Mr. Villares, this is all a joke.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u49	...if the Greeks don't know you and your group. You have no doubt: I never lied to my country, I'll never send out any reports at all. [[Murmurs.]] If we start again, I would do exactly the same thing again: to ask Parliament for permission, to meet with social agents, to ask for a solvency audit — although the BNG did not want it — to make a law — even though the Socialist Party appealed to it at the Constitutional Court — to work to have a financial entity in Galicia with 12,000 working people. I know, Your Honor, that you say some credits have been denied. That's too bad! Too bad, Your Honor, that these Greeks didn't go to the Engineering Box to ask for a credit like what you have to buy those mansions! [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u50	Thank you, President. Speaking of mergers, we could well have merged these two questions. But, well, now it's over. [[Laughter]] Proposals not of law. We continue. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and eight other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the construction of a new variant for Ribeira, between the glorious end of the motorway of Barbana AG-11 and the road DP-7303
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u51	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u52	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Paula Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. We said goodbye yesterday to our colleague Carlos and today I have the honour to defend an initiative of the many that López Crespo had recorded in his short but intense parliamentary work. I want to take this opportunity to thank all the House groups for the facilities they gave us so we could say good-bye to our partner and friend yesterday. Thank you very much. I hope I'm up to what Crespo wanted with this initiative. [[Applause]] I understand that the most important thing for him was the benefit for the neighbours and neighbours of Barbaza, I understand that his illusion to drive the construction of this infrastructure and I would -- without fear of being mistaken -- the enthusiasm with which I would try to convince you, ladies, that this initiative was important and would improve the lives of the neighbors and residents of Ribeira and its territory. The enthusiasm that only Carlos was able to transmit and contaminate, both in his daily work and in the care of his tomatoes, as in the walks with his granddaughter, as with the talk with any neighbour or neighbour, was from the People's Party or was from any other party, because Carlos had that infinite capacity for dialogue that only the greats of politics have. His memory and teachings will always remain with us. Thank you, Carlos. [[Applause]] The highway of Barbanza was a work auctioned on its day by the Territorial Policy Council, Public Works and Living, when it was the current president of the board, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, and I assumed a great change for Ribeira in relation to his communications by road, bringing it closer to the Atlantic axis of communications that makes up AP-9 and the high-speed railway. Already from the start of the previous fast track, the flow of traffic entry in Ribeira has been charged on AC-550, which converges in the urban center with AC-305, which has freed itself from its function of channeling long-distance traffic but still maintains a significant flow of vehicles. One of the priorities of the current government in the area of infrastructure, reflected in the electoral program with which this party obtained the majority confidence of the Greeks and the Greeks in 2016, is the development of urban variants in order to improve the road safety of those urban nuclei crossed by a main road and generate a better mobility in the secondary road network. In this sense, the People's Parliamentary Group considers it necessary to move forward in the process of handling the new variant of Ribeira, an action that will allow the end of conforming the Ribeira road system, allowing the centre of Santa Uxia to cross, to improve access to areas that are further away from the municipal road until reaching the DP-7307 road, which along the coast communicates with Aguiño; that is, a new variant for Ribeira. The purpose of the new road is to become an alternative route to the Ribeira core, which distributes the traffic currently accessed and distributed across the different streets; in this way, the coastal axis would be decongested. In 2017 a possible plot was announced, but we consider it important to implement it through the development of the corresponding project, so that we can move forward to materialize it, and that is why we bring the debate on this initiative to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's much to say to justify this infrastructure. I believe that three questions would be sufficient for you to receive your support. First of all, we're talking about Ribeira, about the region with a higher density of inhabitants, which means that in little space there are many vehicles. Secondly, Ribeira has an extreme problem, which is a peninsula and the traffic in entry and exit is concentrated at the same point, so it is necessary to make traffic more flexible and avoid jams, which are increased in the summer season with access to its magnificent beaches. And thirdly — but not least for that — the proposed variant will bring greater connectivity of the more isolated parishes: Castilians, Careers and Aguiño. We hope to count on your support. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Believe me, Mrs. Prado: I think it's dirty playing what has just been done by personalizing this LNP on Mr. Crespo, who has been very fond of him in his personal dealings, really, just as I don't think he needs justification for the need of this variant. But it was certainly not timeless for Mr. Feijóo to fulfill that election promise made in 2009, in a hasty and urgent way because of the need to entangle the electorate. It wasn't timeless, because Ribeira was growing, and that's why the variant would be at this point indispensable for its development, for its defunction as a city and as a port of great economic interest to our country. What is shocking is that Ribeira needs a pharaonic work, such as that which is said to be projected, to all lights exaggeratedly and with a remarkable landscape and environmental impact, radically different from that which has been fought to the forefront. We know that PP is not a friend of the logical works projected with discretion and wisdom. Each of his works always brings tails, but in this case the vagueness of the agreement that we are asked in this LNP, the invitation to kneel in front of the good wishes in general of his proposal, the little realization of this LNP, leads us to think that we are once again in front of a pre-election propaganda operation to justify what has not been done all this time in relation to giving solution to a demand that anyone who lives in Ribeira — even if it is accidental — sees as indispensable. It can therefore be that we are, perhaps, facing a Pharaohic infrastructure project to be well served, to give it enough electoral journey and, past the elections of the year that comes — the electoral effect has already gone out — let it sleep at the bottom of a council box and holy pastures!, and then again in the following, be the states or the autonomous ones. We hope not because it would be a new ridicule to add to all those promises repeatedly made in each electoral process. Since the BNG we're intrigued by the reason why you opt for this plot that divides the municipality of Ribeira into two pieces and not by the improvement and adaptation of the comarcal road 7301, in which you could smooth the closed curves you currently have, improve and even add the firm and add a lane to the ascending stretch of Xaras-Frions, solving part of the problem. We would save money, we wouldn't cut the municipality in two, heavy traffic wouldn't cross the city, and the impact and elevation of large stems wouldn't be necessary. So since the BNG we're not going to support this LNP which seems to us to be vague. Believe me, we'd like to be wrong and have to admit that you're serious. Because if that were the case — if they were to go seriously — solve the problem of Ribeira's variant would go out to sit down and a little bit of wisdom. Using logic, they would opt for the solution that has long been on the table and that since BNG we have defended, and not only, because also, without going further, they support and recognize as best the Ría Foundation, which, as you know, is a foundation specialized in the landscape, specialist in these matters, chaired — he said so — by David Chiperfield. So we hope that they will take into consideration the amendment to point 1 that we propose, I repeat, if they are serious about this proposal and want to use logic and benefit for Ribeira. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u56	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. We are debating at this point an initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group, the Non-Law No. 29964. The initiative calls for the support of the House's groups for a new variant in Ribeira. The statement of reasons that the initiative gives us, among other things — the value of redundancy — gives us some really revealing questions. For example, the second paragraph says: "From the post at the service of the previous swift track of Barbados, the flow of entry of traffic in Ribeira has been loaded on AC-550, road Cee-Ribeira, which converges in the urban center with AC-305, road Padrón-Ribeira, which, if well freed from its function of channelling long-distance traffic, still maintains an important flow of vehicles." This reality he described was predictable and needed from the beginning of correction actions that solved that problem that then existed and continues today. It seems to us that it did not act with diligence and efficiency on the Barbarian Highway Project at its final point in Ribeira. It was an act, a project, which was already born incomplete, knowing the real situation of Ribeira. Because the previous situation of urban traffic in Ribeira was known: by the population dimension itself of Ribeira; by exercising the dynamizing role of a large territorial space, with the therefore attractive translated into road mobility in its core; because, before, they already converged in the urban center two relevant autonomous roads. Remember: AC-550, approximately 108 kilometers between Cee and Ribeira, which serves important intermediate populations such as Carnota, Walls, Noia, Porto do Son, Portosín, etc. And also AC-305, 40 kilometers between Padrón and Ribeira, who served as a service to populations like Boiro, the Poor of the Caraminhal, etc. This was the reality prior to the Barbarian highway, a reality known and contrasted in the IMD — half-way intensity of vehicles — at the kilometres near Ribeira on the AC-550 and AC-305 roads. And it's a reality also known, and above all suffering, by the neighbors and neighbors of the urban hull of Santa Uxía de Ribeira. It's true that the Highway of Barbanza has released the traffic of AC-305, assuming its channeling function, providing security and reducing time. He also contributed endogenous wealth, facilitating his access to St.Uxia de Ribeira, and exogenous wealth, facilitating the exit to the main avenues of road communication such as N-550 and above all AP-9. Those are the virtues of the Barbarian highway. But the People's Group's initiative reveals its shortcomings; some shortcomings at the end, in Ribeira, as a result of the lack of forecast and a terrible final planning and resolution of road safety in Ribeira's urban centre. In the explanatory statement, the People's Group echoes the virtues of this highway called for by a Government of the People's Party, being advisor to Territorial Policy, Works and Living Mr Feijóo, current President of the Galician Union. It seems obvious, Mrs. Prado, that the merit of the invitation to tender to Mr. Feijóo will allow us to grant the merit of the shortcomings to Mr. Feijóo too. In fact, the non-legislative proposal of the People's Group aims to address a serious deficiency in the Barbarian highway which has affected the traffic and road safety of Ribeira for many years. It seems to be the initiative of an amendment to the Barbarian Highway Project, with some resistance from the Government and who presides over it to acknowledge its errors, or, more importantly, to unburden itself of road safety, in this case in Ribeira. This is the only way the People's Group is supposed to ask for support from opposition groups. Of course, the Socialist Group is committed — absolutely committed — to road safety, and we are not going to put a stop to actions that seek improvements in road safety, as is the case with the Ribeira variant, so we will support this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u58	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Fernández. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u59	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Today we've seen Mr. Feijóo come to Venezuela again, that silver bullet that they use whenever they have to hide important miseries. And it's not that the savings boxes of the Greeks and the Greeks in Venezuela don't have a relationship, of course they do, which is the relationship of the People's Party with a Venezuelan company that they gave the boxes of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. [[Applause]] The People's Party today brings an initiative that I don't know how to qualify as a redundant, because the Infrastructure and Living Counsellor — Mrs Ethel Vázquez — has already announced this action. Or if, on the contrary, it's a serious initiative and what they're doing is pressing on the Infrastructure Advisor to meet the announcement because the Popular Group is not confident of the word given by the advisor, which is understandable, given the degree of non-compliance of this Government. Whether it's a question or a question, what if it's evidenced is that this initiative and the counsellor's announcement a few months ago has a very marked electoralist character, something that should not surprise anyone, since the Government of Beijóo only remembers the infrastructures of Greece when it comes to events on the horizon. Let's think, for example, of what happened with the recently opened Morrazo bus. With 7.3 kilometers of walk, it was built over seven years, paralyzing the works and reactivating them according to the proximity of the elections. Thus, even though the original corridor was projected in the days of Manuel Fraga — former president of the Galician Union, former dictator of the People's Party's dictatorship and peak referendum for many years — it was not until 2011 that the first contract of work, by chance one month before the municipal elections. During the following three years, Morrazo's highway did not advance much, until on April 13, 2015, again one month before the municipal elections, Junta announced a second bid, this time for the construction of the first of the three sections in which the work was divided. The second instalment was bided on December 16, 2015, four days before the general election. Now, after the bids and the promises came the cutouts of circulation for the absence of proper planning. The first one of the cuts was not reported until October 28, 2016, curiously 1 month after that year's autonomous election. This disillusionment, added to the cuts on Rande's bridge and to the unfulfilled promise by Fomento that once the works were finished the neighborhood of Morrazo could even use the additional roads of the self-saver's body, it has the mayors of Morrazo standing in war, so a couple of days ago they concentrated in Domaio. And yesterday I guess they'd get mad again when they saw three-kilometre jams again after Feijóo's announcement was validly announced, four years after the works were causing locks, that Audasa would climb the barriers in case of lockdown. Well, yesterday there was a three-kilometre blockade and no barriers were raised, we see that the word of Feijóo is absolutely useless. It was very brave, the lack of fifteen days to finish the works, after four years, to say that Audasa would raise the fees. Well, yesterday we saw that the word given by Feijóo is useless, that it's no use for the Council of Galicia to be in the AP-9 Commission, because they're laughing at all the Greeks and all the Greeks, and yesterday you're doing it again. The highway to the coast of Death is also a good example of a recurring electoral promise. She was committed in 2002, after the Prestige disaster, but did not start to build until 2008 and did not end until 2016. It was one of the two performances promised at that famous Council of Ministers of that Galician Plan that was a joke to all the Greeks and Greeks: only 2 of the 10 promises made were fulfilled. From that picture of the Council of Ministers where only two ministers are already being investigated or arrested for the corruption of that government accused and arrested by Mr Aznar. By the way, it's going to cost the Greeks and the Greeks 630 million euros up to 2030, when the initial design was just 200 million euros. This type of operations I suppose refers to the National Markets and Competition Commission when it speaks of corruption in the Spanish State cost 90 billion euros a year, of which half are inflated concessions. We already know how to fund the campaigns of the People's Party. And I don't want to end without remembering that it's also necessary to work on the improvement of road safety on the AC-11 highway, which concentrates half of the fallacy with animals in the province of Coruña. Although Mr. Fernández Prado is very kind, we're talking about traffic accidents. We also need to act on AC-550, which is in very poor condition because of the traffic it bears in the face of the absence of the variant and the dissembling of the Galician Union. And, in order to finish, Galicia must finally assume the competences of AP-9, liberal and make it accessible to all citizenship; also, of course, to the citizenship of Barbados, which after circulating through a free track of fees must spend the money to circulate in the direction of Pontevedra or Compostela. That would be a good election announcement on the part of the People's Party. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u60	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Cal, I understand that you are confused today because you are subject to two consultations: one, about the mansion of Paul and Irene; and another, about whether you have to go to Mrs. Quinteiro or Mr. Villares. But look, here the only ones who don't trust the words given by their groupmates are you. You just have to see the press of the last month -- I'm not talking much later, of the last month -- and even today's press, in which a member of your group is questioning your spokesman. That will not be seen in the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applause]] Mr. Rivas, this initiative has been on the agenda since last Tuesday. If you interpreted it as dirty playing to remind the deputy who drafted this initiative, I think you misunderstood me, because the simple reminder to our colleague López Crespo did not in any case intend to condition the vote of any group, it was simply to remember that the initiative was his, and today I feel honored to defend it. And I just did -- I think today I was doing it -- a little reminder of what our partner was like, nothing else. [[Applause]] On your amendment, Mr. Rivas, we cannot accept it because what you propose to the amendment of the BNG is actually a completely different plot for the variant of Ribeira. You propose to take advantage of the present 7301, which is the title of the Crown Deputy. We believe that the concrete layout should be defined in the contract that will comply with what is proposed in this LNP. We do not intend to define the layout with this LNP either. But anyway, about the plot you're proposing, I'm going to tell you three things. First, as far as functionality is concerned, the purpose of the variant is to circle the Ribeira core, giving a new west access to its larger expansion area and closing the network with DP-7307, which runs along the coast through Aguiño. This does not offer the proposal you make, which is away from the main core of Ribeira and does not reach the coast. Secondly, one of the problems that will solve the proposed variant is the transition at the end of the highway, which through AC-550 — much urbanized — does not provide the right service to be the main access to Ribeira. With the proposal you make, by 7301, the same problem would be repeated in part, because the plot is conditioned by the constructions in its environment; less than in AC-550, but yet significant, many more constructions. And taking advantage of, Mr. Rivas, the DP-7301, as proposed by the BNG, would be more insecure than a track again drawn for vehicles, being a road with more intersections, constructions, etc., for the neighbors themselves and where traffic would also be further increased. I believe that, indeed, the objective, Mr. Fernández, is to improve road safety, to simplify traffic and also to take advantage of these parishes: Now, Castilians and Careers, which are the most distant parts of the nucleus. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to promote the normal use of the language of the Greek language and to facilitate its knowledge in child education, as well as in the centres of care for children
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u63	There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u64	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u65	As we did yesterday, the first one is a reminder to our comrade Crespo. We think that, from the ideological distance, I was a very good example of that pre-condition of politics, which is respect for others, for others. And go here too our memory that we made yesterday our companion Manolo Lago. We understand that we live a process of foreignization of the language itself on our own land; it's something that seems inexorable in the light of data. It may seem a little over-exaggerated, but since 1992, when there's the first reliable study, the Welshman is retreating in a sharp and unstoppable way. I say it may seem excessive, but if we go to certain urban contexts or if we go to certain boundaries of youth, the reality is this. We've been listening for months to the Government's argument to boast about socio-linguistic data, when reality is the constant descent of the speaking Greek population. And they're proud to be -- it's true -- the most known, most spoken and most used co-official language, but they obviously -- obviously obvious -- that's the one who loses the most speakers, starting precisely from a better situation. The reality is that the country ages, and the ones who grow older are the spokesmen and the spokesmen of Greek. The Royal Galaga Academy warned of the risk of intergenerational transmission of the language. He says that more and more children and children in Wales inherit the language, and at present the analysis made by the Royal Galega Academy on this aspect makes the hypothesis that it does not have to do with the family decision at this time, but with little — literally — I say — the presence of the Greek in secondary socialization, particularly in the school field. So, we're not going to go into the data in depth, but it's obvious, simply by pointing them briefly, that the younger generations, those between 5 and 20 years of age, tend -- this is an inexorable process -- to Spanish monolinguization. If we compare the data between the 2003 and 2013 IGE survey, there is no more to see that if in 2013 there are 18.35% of children between 5 and 14 years old who learned to speak only in English, this situation in 2003 was 31.46%; there is an accelerated decrease of 14 points in this situation. This data cannot be verified. In addition, according to the IGE, the question about the language used by parents and mothers to relate to children was 18.52% in 2013 who indicated it this way, compared to 33% a decade ago. Now speaking to sons and daughters in Spanish is the majority language behavior among the population of Galicia, 38.5%. If we're going to see the territorial distribution of linguistic uses, it seems to us that there's an obvious parallelism between the process that some geographers like our partner Xose Constenla call territorial collapse of Greek and the loss of language. There's a territorial imbalance, there's a socio-linguistic imbalance. The only positive data—it is true—are those that highlight—it would only be lacking—the improvement of the positive self-perception of language skills, the improvement of reading in particular. I'd just miss it, when you join the Greek in teaching! But what's going on? That among children under 30, the percentage of youth that ensures that they have a total domain of the Greek language has also descended in these ten years, from 66.35 % to 53.07 %. Well, it is clear that one of the areas in which there was consensus in this House, in Galician society, for the necessary empowerment of the Greek language, as we are legally obliged, was teaching. What's going on? Although this presence of Greek in teaching, that presence which must tend to go more and more, although it is legally supported in the Statute of Self-Government, in the Law of Linguistic Standardization and in various international norms that protects minority languages, despite that, the Committee of Experts evaluating the degree of compliance of the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages was, of course, very critical with the brutal retreat lived by language in teaching, after the famous decree of multilingualism, and literally alerted to the gradual reduction of Greek education at all levels. So article 13 of the Standardization Law is wet paper: children have the right to receive first education in their mother tongue, but it's wet paper for many and many young Greek speakers. I say, the general plan for linguistic normalization, which was unanimously adopted in this Parliament in 2004 and which had the ultimate goal of guaranteeing to the people we speak in English the right to live in Greek, is materially impossible, and one of the ways in which it is impossible is in child education. Despite this consensus in the necessary language empowerment, we see that in children's education the presence of language in the centres in this case from 2 to 6 years - is the report of the Bureau of Linguistic Standardization - 76% of children's centres in the urban environment have classes mostly or exclusively in Spanish; only 19% try to equate the use of both languages and only 8.5% use mostly the Greek language. Thus, almost 39 percent of these centers exclude the whole Greek from their classrooms. The situation in urban areas is worse than in rural areas. If we go to the data you sent to Junta, which says that about 10% of these schools are used mostly by Greek, it doesn't even reach that 18.52% of the initial spokespersons of Greek. So, the reality is that also in teaching this cycle, the first cycle of childhood education, which is not part of the Education Council, but which is a fundamental element for teaching, it also contributes to the loss of speaking Greek, instead of contributing to curbing this historical phenomenon of linguistic replacement. The reality like that is no better than in 2004. The General Standardization Plan itself already warned that in children's education the presence of Greek is minimal. What's going on? That since we do not have a detailed study of Joina, one of our proposals is to know in depth the linguistic reality of children's education centres, in the case of between 0 and 3 years, of all types of centers, so we propose a detailed study of Joina. And we propose to present to this Parliament, before the end of the year, a study on the situation of language planning in these centres, which would also allow us to see x-rays at the territorial level, which, of course, is an obligation of the Greek Administration to make these assessments of how language policy is in the educational field, which is something that does not meet either. And it's just that the norms and consensus that have to do with the language are systematically violated. And when we don't meet the consensus that has to do with the English language, we're not missing only the Greek language, we're missing what we're talking about, because linguistic policy is the government's issue of budget reduction. We therefore want to propose measures that speak of linguistic rights, equal opportunities for all the population and ensure that we comply with the standards that we have given ourselves and that have been with the consensus of the whole of Greek society. On the one hand, to develop an autonomous public network of children's schools from 0 to 3 years old integrated into the Education Council — since it is an important tool in which education is essential — ensuring the development of the capacities of children in both official languages of Galicia, ensuring the right of children to be educated in the mother tongue as well as the promotion of the normal use of the Greek language. We don't leave the framework of the General Linguistic Standardization Plan, but the reality is that this is not met. We ask that it be a public network, that it be a network extended by the territory, because it seems to us that this is today the most sought after social service of citizenship. There's a waiting list in public childhood schools of over 3,800 children and girls. We have to deal with this social demand which is also fair: early schooling guarantees equal opportunities, and in linguistic terms it is also essential to acquire linguistic skills later. The problem with the lack of English language in children's schools isn't right now, I said, but this would help beat him. In the absence of a uniform public education network of 0 to 3 years, we also propose specifically to promote linguistic normalization at child care points, at children's homes or at social-initiative schools, because the order that regulates them does not lay down obligations in terms of language rather than for children's schools, and in a more lax way that does so for child education that is integrated into education, and in addition in children's homes they miss a common rule in both teaching and language, because children are asked for a very basic project in the care aspect, but they are a fundamental educational element. We believe that we should also take into account some kind of common standard regarding language teaching and planning, I say, with the horizon of moving towards a public education network from 0 to 3 years. We also propose in the framework of the General Plan for Linguistic Standardization — we are not leaving — in collaboration with the municipalities, the promotion of family education projects to promote the socialization of children in Greek and to support existing initiatives, such as the Apego project. The Union could, instead of giving those boxes with quinnachada that give us the women we give birth in Galicia, enhance the audiovisual material in Welsh, because, according to the frame, they can square us in those boxes in Spanish or German. We think it's important that you power this out. Why? Because also in this Bureau study, we saw that there is more educational material in English than in English in children's schools. It's a social demand, Junta must promote the publishing of educational and playful material in the Welsh language. Nor, by the way, do we leave the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization. For us there are many pedagogical reasons to promote the teaching of Greek at the 0-3 year stage, and to make it, in fact, an educational stage. Why? Because it is essential to contact the Greek to soon have those skills in Greek that theoretically the Standardization Act establishes at the end of compulsory education. What's going on? That in many cities the reality is that today children will only have contact with the Greek at school, they are only having contact with the Greek at school. What's going on? How is the right to know the children of Vigo or Ferrol guaranteed with the level of use of Greek in childhood? I'm done. Several studies, including those of Professor Anxo Lorenzo, say that children who have the language of prestige as a family language in society, which is Spanish, have no problem with the predominant schooling in languages other than their mother tongue, obtaining benefits and language improvements in both school and mother tongue. On the other hand, children who have the minority as their mother tongue, when they are fully or mostly educated in the language of prestige, if they can suffer negative consequences, especially if they do not strengthen their language skills. So by teaching, by equality, by language rights, we propose to support this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u66	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u67	Good morning. Having one's own language is a wealth. Having a language of its own is a treasure. Normalizing the language is normalizing the full existence of a people. In this case, normalizing the language itself is normalizing the full existence of the Greek people. That's why the fact is that it is incomprehensible that the People's Party, with Nuñez Fexóo in the head, is struggling to weaken the language of the Greek people. The only explanation is to have a government of occupation in the service of the occupying forces, which has as its priority the objective of the culture of the people themselves, of assimilation and of being at the service of the empire. Instead of being at the service of the people of Greece, being at the service of Spain and at the service of what they say from Madrid. And he has given evidence more than enough. In the face of Madrid's continuous and permanent interference, instead of defending the competences and defending the language, pray to what they have said from there. English is the only language in the state that loses speakers. English is the only language in which there is no newspaper. English is the only language in which math or science cannot be taught. English is the only language in the State where books are edited. It's the only language in which you can't access series and films replaced in English on digital platforms. And yesterday we could see a real spook here. In the face of an initiative defended by the Nationalist Block of Galicia, we saw something that would be inconceivable in a normal country with a normal government, where it is defended that you can have normal access to digital platforms with subtitles in Greek. Besides, with the aggressiveness of how do we happen to pose such a thing?Oh, my God! In a normal country, they'd be runnin' to the throats, and it turns out they suck! It turns out that the People's Party is in the face of this situation and this is the normality they defend, saying that it is normal to have a government that thus attacks the language itself. [[Applause]] To deny the language is to deny the country, and it turns out that we have the majority party, which supports the Government, installed in this position. The Greek losing its role in the policies of contempt and aggression of the Government and the People's Party. And the Greeks and the Greeks find it difficult to live normally in Greek: in teaching, in administration, in justice, in audiovisual, in youth, in leisure, in the media, in publishing books. Finding the absolute marginalization of Welsh in so different areas as the media or justice, where the Greek reaches only 5%, and when it reaches that 5%, it's for a voluntary exercise of the people who exercise their profession there. He suffers discrimination in government decision-making education, which according to reports by the Royal Galaga Academy, since 2010 the Greek has reverted to the indexes of the 1990s, or has reduced the presence in child education in cities by 90%. Data, of course, chilling, but they're not a biblical curse, they're not coincidences, it's fruit of that roadmap of the People's Party, which has as its objective that the language itself ceases to exist. In this context, any initiative brought to this Parliament to try to put Welsh in its proper place will certainly have the support and defence of the Galician Nationalist Block. That is why we support this initiative, to which we have tabled an amendment in an area which we have been systematically defending for all time, which is, instead of defending a network of children's and then integral schools in the Council of Education, we propose that we consider the course of 0-3 educational education and that it be integrated into the board responsible for education, and that in this framework we consider what the general plan for the standardization of the Greek language of 2004 is actually being complied with by unanimity and consensus in this Parliament; that is to say, that this 0-3 educational stage is being considered as an educational stage and that the agreed unanimously in this Parliament in 2004. And we've said on many occasions that it seemed incredible to have Manuel Fraga claim and Manuel Fraga's stage in this Parliament, but to do so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u68	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u69	...it agreed at that time, that it is nothing other than to set up an education offer in English in preschool of 0-3, in childhood education, for all the children and children of Greek speaking, and to set at least one third of the weekly hours in German at these educational stages for those who are not Greek speaking. I mean, something so revolutionary as to comply with the law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u71	At this time in Galicia, it is revolutionary to comply with the Linguistic Standardization Plan adopted unanimously in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliament Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. We, the Socialist Group, in the previous plenary session, have truly tried, with all goodwill, to reach a new pact for language in this Parliament; a new pact that has broken the People's Party, which has its vessel insignia in the so-called Multilingualism Decree, which is bringing serious consequences to our language. Because the Greek has problems; he is having problems that were already evident before and that are now much more evident. That we know and we're all worried except the People's Party. But we don't say so by the Socialist Group, says the Galician Council of Culture, says the Royal Galician Academy, tells it the universities and is marked by all the surveys that can be known. We try to reach that pact but the People's Party doesn't want to, prefers to hide the head, prefers not to see the reality; that's being thought well; but I'm more and more willing to think not so well, to think that what they want is to hide the Greek, that is, to make our language less and less visible. In any case, he said that Mrs Vázquez Verao's initiative puts a very important problem on the table. It's very important because the future of our language, like the future of everything, is in the children and the children, the children. And besides, the most serious problem in Greek is being faced precisely by young men and girls. It's not a new problem. Every time I go back to the Linguistic Standardization Plan, I have to say that I like it better. It makes a very important and very good diagnosis of the problems at that time. Let me read the diagnosis of the smaller ones. He said — and he says — the Linguistic Standardization Plan in exact words: "In kindergartens they throw much of the hours they're awake." They refer, of course, to children and children. "In them they begin to relate to others. They're taught names to things. They start talking in the language where they'll always feel safe." Now, in Galicia, the presence of the Greek in kindergartens — today's infant schools — does not reach 1%, and there are few that respect the mother tongue of children when it's Welsh, so for these children the initial language may not necessarily be with the mother tongue. We can even claim that these new generations do not have their mother tongue, but they enter life without their mother tongue and kindergarten language, or, if possible, with their initial language often different from their mother tongue or family language. If we add to this that, in many cases, when that child returns home he finds a television set willing to offer him hours of leisure mostly in Spanish, one of the roots of the fact that the introduction of Greek into framework education paradoxically with a decrease in the number of Greek boys talking mostly in towns and cities, a phenomenon that begins to appear in the rural world. That's exactly what's going on right now, that's right, with a higher incidence and a higher percentage of what was going on at that time. And the problems are exactly the same: the non-existence of the Welsh language in children's schools; a Welsh television in which right now there is virtually no programming in Welsh for children and children. He just said the Bureau for Linguistic Normalization. Only 5% of that children's programming is in German, but that's right, when the child or the girl gets home, he has a vast number of channels talking in Spanish, and also with a much more innovative programming. If we add that there's no teaching material either, which has been perfectly accounted for by the Bureau for Normalization, we have the perfect storm. It is clear that a large part of the children and girls, especially in the cities, arrive at primary school without any contact with the Greek, no contact! Contact is made in primary classes. And that's a really serious problem that I think we have to fix. A government — I say it and I repeat it — is responsible, a government that upholds this country's Statute of autonomy and that really wants to promote the Greek language, would be very concerned about this and would be handling completely different rules and legislation. You're not doing it, and this will cause an even more serious problem than what we have on the table. So we will, of course, support this initiative and beg the People's Party to recapitulate and take action on this very serious problem, because they are the Government and they are the ones who have the utmost responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u75	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Mrs. Vázquez, there are a lot of things about your intervention that we can agree on. I understand it's constructive, and I'm going to talk to you about certain language-related topics. I'm going to continue now with what you said, but you're going to have to allow me a second to refer to Mrs Prado's intervention because I was worried enough. I was very concerned because he started saying that having his own language is a wealth and a treasure. I agree and fully subscribe to that statement, and I would add to it that it must never be a reason for confrontation. I'd add that, precisely, because I missed you in your intervention. In addition, he has already begun to take out what is the usual argumentary of the Nationalist Block Galego, even talking about whether the Government of Galicia was a government serving the occupying forces, serving the empire. You know, or you should know -- yes, we're talking about language and language defense -- that in sociolinguistics one of the fundamental issues to keep in mind when defending a language is that a language can never be written or associated or try to appropriate a political option. Why? Because at the time the language is subscribed, associated or appropriated by a political option, it will run the same fate as that option will run. It will generate sympathies in the defenders of that policy option and automatically antipathies in which they do not follow that policy option. [[Applause]] And the president was also given the data in the previous plenary, when he was asked about the situation of the language. The attitude of the Galician Nationalist Block, unfortunately, has caused the loss of spokespersons in Galicia, a very important loss of spokespersons in Galicia, even though you want to accuse others of it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] No, it's not an insult, it's a fact, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u76	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u77	Unfortunately, it's a fact.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u78	Quiet, quiet. Mrs. Prado, you were in the debate. Quiet. This is a political debate, no one insults anyone at the moment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. No, no, there's no insult to anyone. Go ahead, Mr. Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u79	Thank you very much, President. In addition, even if we were told that in a normal country a government like this would be run into a bunch. You think they're insinuating, what they're insinuating, that Galician society isn't a normal society? Because language politics and this government are referred to by the Greek society. If you want to defend the Greek and the Greek society by saying that a normal society would run us off...! [[Applause]] For I don't know what his conception of the Greek society is! But I'm sorry, the non-law proposal was from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and I want to answer what the proposal said not by law, because it has interesting aspects and it has issues we can agree on, but I think a partial vision is given, and I say so frankly. You have spoken of a process of foreignization of the Greek, that the presence of the Greek is coming down permanently and at risk of intergenerational breakdown. True, all the data point to a breakdown in intergenerational transmission, and for that they articulate plans, to act on this issue. You were talking about the importance of the presence of Welsh in childhood education. Obviously, of course, but I'm going to tell you more, the decree that you so much criticize, of multilingualism, in your article 5.3, literally points out: "The student will be treated individually, taking into account his mother tongue.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Multilingualism Decree, Article 5.4: "Each educational centre shall record in its linguistic project the learning activities and strategies used for students to acquire the knowledge of the two official languages orally and in writing.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I mean, what you're asking for is collected in the own decree of plurilingualism. It's something that's already being done. All children's schools have to have a central language project, and you know it perfectly well, so I don't understand what this proposal comes to Parliament today, why they bring this proposal to the House. There's a very important question to which you made a reference, but a veiled reference, which is the territorial distribution of linguistic uses. It's very important, because of course, we came here and you said that in cities, in childhood education, there are children who may not get in touch with the Greek until school, focused on primary education. I already say that I do not share that statement at all because the decree itself, as I said before, guarantees the presence of the Greek in all educational stages. But if we want to address the socio-linguistic reality in the specific case of childhood education, we can also find ourselves in another position. That is to say, as teaching is to be guaranteed in the mother tongue, in those contexts where the mother tongue is Spanish, of course it will be more present in child education. However, in rural areas — and you know it perfectly — where the mother tongue in many cases is mostly Greek, child education is transmitted mostly in Greek, given the need to transmit the mother tongue. I mean, it's absolute coherence of the Greek Government's linguistic system. Now, what needs to be done to improve the situation in Greek? Obviously. Ensuring linguistic balance and ensuring competences. We talked about it over and over again. What is the fundamental competence of a government? To provide the society with basic skills to speak a language, and from there on, we are at the moment of the highest degree of knowledge and the highest degree of competence. I said that in the previous plenary session, if there was a problem in teaching Greek in Galicia, we could not be at the moment of greater competition and linguistic skill in all the issues of society. Everyone recognizes and self-recognizes their language competence. That's because in teaching you're doing things right. Is it necessary to act to improve the presence of the Greek, and above all to maintain the intergenerational transmission? Of course, for that, there are the plans for the dynamization of the Greek in youth; the plan for the dynamization of the Greek in the socio-economic fabric. I have said it a thousand times and I'll keep repeating it: the fundamental question of language is social prestige...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u81	...that's why I always say, and I won't get tired of saying it, which is weak if you do — and in this case I don't mean you, Mrs Vázquez, that in your speech it was, of course, very right— with interventions like that of Mrs Prado to that presence or that intergenerational transmission, or that sympathy, or that prestige of the Greek, because at the end of the day — I said it, and with this end, if we're trying to write or appropriate a language from a political option, what we're finally achieving is to create rejection to that language since we don't think the same way. We defend that the language is of everyone and, therefore, as we will all continue to defend it, we will continue to implement plans and channels so that the presence of the language is increasingly prevalent in society. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u82	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u83	I'm going to try to answer what I think are a series of traps that you, Mr. Fernández Gil, have signaled. Anyway, the first thing I have to say, and let me go to the literature, is that "sad is the singing we sing," because weak favor is done to the language just when the consensus is broken! Obviously, the language is not of any political option. Then why did they climb up to the horse of groups in 2009 saying that the Galician was being imposed in Galicia? Why do they raise the consensus of the 2004 Standardisation Plan? Whose fault is it? Who is it to say that the Greek was being imposed on teaching in Galicia? You, as the Government of the Union, who have the statutory obligation to normalize Greek, go up to the car of these groups and now speak of "linguistic balance." Balance cannot be seen between languages that are unequal. You said that the main problem of language is also contempt. I rise, of course, when a language is deduced, it must be more empowered in teaching and must have a minimum guaranteed. That's what's not guaranteed, because in the papers it is, but the reality is that this first contact with the Galician in a lot of childhood in cities takes place in teaching, and they have no other means of contact. The General Linguistic Standardization Plan had already warned this situation, so we're going to accept the amendment of the BNG, which one of its proposals was that it should be guaranteed in the Spanish media speaking at least one third of the weekly hours in German. We believe that I should walk to at least 50%, as was this Bipartite decree, but it would be a step forward, because the reality is that it's not done. And it's not only in children's schools, but in children's care points, in private-initiative schools, and there's no regulations for children's homes, so we're going beyond this initiative. But there's also a clear pedagogical reason why we're not talking about equal languages, we're talking about unequal languages, with different prestige, so it's necessary to empower the one who's downgraded in society. So, it's a trap to say that we're in the linguistic balance, that we're at the best time in Welsh. Of course, with respect to knowledge, it's obvious, if the Greek was excluded, if he was outlawed from school. But we're also at the worst moment about the loss of intergenerational transmission of the language, and we can't deny that data. The source, for us, is in the crucible of the consensus that was made in 2009, and we regret that this continues to be so. I, listening to the argument made by the Board all these months, can only interpret that this language consensus is being created because if you're competing with Citizens to see who's cuter, to see who's more Spanishist. I can't find any other explanation! I can't find any other explanation to keep encouraging these prejudices about the language that the Government itself has promoted, when in addition to the Union itself, apart from having the statutory obligation, there would be no language if there were not! Have you read the preamble to the Language Standardization Act? When our language is receding into our own land, we do not aspire to return centuries ago, we are not talking about romantic issues. But we're analyzing that it's a consequence of the construction of a centralist state that was made the cost of the interests of the Greek people and above the linguistic rights. This is in the Language Standardization Act. There was a consensus that, since the language had ended up being reduced, if it had become more powerful. They broke that consensus, and the reality is that the Union is contributing to Galicia's disqualification.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u84	About the amendment? Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u85	I accept. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u86	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and twelve other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government to safeguard the health care provided by the Centre Galego de Bos Aires, as well as its heritage, its social work and its legacy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u87	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u88	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. The subject that we bring here today is a complex issue, but it's a subject that we consider very important. There is a manifesto for the defence and the future of the Galego Center in Bos Aires, signed by all cultural, social and political forces beyond the seas and beyond the seas as well. From this part is the Royal Galaga Academy, the Council of Culture, the three universities, multiple foundations, all trade unions, all the political groups that we are in this House, over 5,000 signatories. I'd ask a little attention, please, if you don't mind, because deconcentration, when the rhythm has to be accelerated, is pretty bad. Well, what do we sign? Here was an institutional statement on March 24, i.e. two months ago. What do we sign and, say, what is the synthesis of the matter? What are you asking for? Through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, concrete actions before the Argentine Government are being called upon to resolve the serious situation of the Galego Centre in Bos Aires. It also claims political will to preserve and ensure the quality medical care of current partners and partners and the protection of artistic, documentary, bibliographic and editorial heritage. Finally, in this very quick synthesis, it is requested to prevent demolition and/or real estate speculation. Having said this, I'm going to make a brief history of the century in two and a half minutes, a bit like the book "History of the World in ten and a half chapters." Julian Barnes. We're talking about a center that has more history than 101 years old. We're talking about a century of history. In 1907 the centre was born with several clear objectives: to help immigrants, to take literacy courses, to create work offices and medical assistance. In 1917 the building was purchased by popular subscription, and this building is not only a building with 6 floors, 2 basements, a lot of cultural and artistic work, it is a symbol of our country. It is inaugurated in 1923 with a spirit of social cooperation, and it is the foundation of a centre that is part of our culture. In 1950 he died in a hospital room at the Yellow Center Alfonso Daniel Rodríguez Castelao, and this is also an important symbol for all of us. In 1969 the Cultural Institute was created, with the aim of spreading and defending the culture of Galicia and preserving this rich heritage. I'm going to pick up a little bit, because there's a lot of dates and a lot of data, and I'm going to stay strictly with what I consider very relevant and that brings us here today, because there's an emergency situation, there's an emergency situation. In 2002 a foundation was created, the Galicia Health Foundation — and this is important — with its headquarters in Santiago de Compostela, composed of the same part by members of the Government of Galicia and the Centre Galego. In 2001, patterned to equal parts. What happened in 2006? They pay attention if they can and want and are not occupied with other matters that I'm sure are of great importance too. In 2006, the registration of Ospaña is relevant. First and only authorized work, without union origin, in the National Register of Social Works. Conformed by the Galician Union, the Government of Spain, the Galician Health Foundation and the Galician Centre in 2006. What was the idea? Serve as financial support or hospital. All right. The economic power achieved by Ospaña shows that it was the economic solution for the Galician Centre, which would ensure its survival. But what happened? Please, whoever is listening, it's important not to lose thread, because if we lose thread we won't understand much because the subject is complex. In 2007 the statutes were approved, the Ospaña workshops were opened within the Galego Centre building. In 2008 begins what we all know, the crisis in Spain. In 2009 there are also substantial changes that everyone will have in mind; there is a new Government and there is a new delegate, López Dobarro. I'm going to take this shot to give me time to say it all and jump four important years, from 2010 to 2013. In 2014—think on the date 2006—there is a meeting of the board of directors of Spain; there is a decision to exclude the Galego Centre of Bos Aires. And there are a few minutes that we have — Act 46 — clearly what it gives us is a blindfold against possible government changes in Galicia or Spain. In 2015 – we are coming to our day – three years ago, the statutes of Ospaña are reinforced, 2015. The Galician Union and the Spanish Government are mentioned as promoters of the initiative. And those who've been in this Parliament for a long time and remember that it's transcendent and that it's come here-- who we weren't, we also have hemerothecs and lots of bibliographical sources to document us. In 2016 there is a new change of speaker, the third speaker, because the Galego Center in Bos Aires is intervened. And the intervention takes Moyano Barro. In 2017 — last year, we're very precious — what's going on? In February there's an assemblage of partners but it's suspended for lack of quorum. The new board of directors is not appointed. I refer to the membership of partners because they have everything to do with what we bring here today. The intervener shall announce a concession agreement. With whom? With Favaloro, which is an Argentine foundation that had prestige at its moment but which is also in a difficult economic situation. And with Rivera Health, that many and many of you will know well. It's a well-known company especially in the area of Valencia. In December, the new membership of partners does not approve the intervener's balance sheets and put on sales terms. In 2018 -- we're doing this year -- we've only been five months this year, but a lot of things have happened, a lot! Finally, there's an apparent breakdown of negotiations with the offering company, Rivera Saúde and Favaloro. The members of the negotiating commission claim that they have never met with the buyers. These say they only did it to the intervener. In January, the education and culture advisor appeared here saying that they would have a lot of respect and protection of goods. In February, En Marea's request was brought to Commission 1st, Mr. General Manager of Emigration, Miranda. In March — as it is most important — the Argentine Government dictates that the Centre Galego return to conduct the social work promoted by the Union, from which it had been illegally expelled — this is a fundamental fact —. New assembly is called, and what's going on? What does this really mean — they have in the initiative that we present all the legal steps — what does it mean? That the Galego Centre in Bos Aires will appoint new representatives in the governing and control bodies of Ospaña. What does that mean? That 33% of Ospaña belongs to the Galician Union, which 33% of Ospaña belongs to the State of Spain, which 33% of Ospaña, from this resolution, belongs to the Galician Center. Then we have to negotiate, obviously. And the amendments to the regulations need to be appointed representatives. On 8 May, the assembly gave Martín Moyano a month, the intervener, to certify the purchase offer, the health benefit, which liquidates the debt and saves its historical and cultural heritage. They therefore have Rivera Health and Favaloro 15 days from today to prevent or give a concrete offer, and the intervention to cancel the borrower's liability. The other option is bankruptcy, which is what I think we don't want anyone. Since there is an agreement and it cannot be a wet role, we hope that this initiative, which will also go through the transaction with the other groups that have tabled amendments, will be accepted. And really, if it's not paper wet both the signature of the manifesto and the institutional statement we made here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u91	...—now finished—we must try by all means to save the Galego Center of Bos Aires. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u93	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. As Mrs Cuña pointed out, in fact — and on account of the news that was taking place regarding the present and future of the Galego Centre in Bos Aires — we raised a number of oral questions from which the Councillor of Culture answered in the past plenary session on 23 January. Always speaking about the main or most comprehensive centre of Galicia's diaspora, it is important to note dates so as not to lose sight of history and why today the Galician Parliament, which has arrived precisely — as the rapporteur of this GNP pointed out — at an institutional statement unanimous on 21 March, is more than concerned about the future of this centre of Galicia abroad. For me there are three or four fundamental dates, as they are, of course, 1907 — a year of creation —; the years — I would treat them together — 1933 and 1936, when the center gave its support to Greek autonomy; the year 1990, of course, in which the Greek Government granted the Golden Medal of Galicia to this center for all its work throughout its history and for keeping Galicia's representation alive abroad. After more than five years of the intervention by the Argentine authorities in this centre, we had an opportunity to know also as an important milestone in the documentation to be taken into account in trying to resolve and seek a future among all of us for the Galician Centre of Bos Aires, the agreement which took the plenary of the Galician Culture Council on January 9 this year, with assistance from the President of the Galician Union, on the basis of — it must be reiterated and not lost sight of — both in the Galician Law of Galician Heritage Act and in the Galician Cultural Heritage Act. And then, in that question, we told the cultural adviser that not only is the bibliographical-documental cultural legacy in the centre itself is at stake, but it is at stake the historical memory of the Greeks and the emigrants. So the Culture Councillor told us on a number of issues that the Greek Government had the utmost concern and intention to collaborate. That President Feijóo had transferred to President Macri at the embassy level the concern of Galicia for the future of the center. And that we had to take into account two aspects that condition any solution to the center. First, that we are, of course, in the field of external relations; and secondly, that the centre, of course, belongs to the collective of mutualists present there. In that sense, it was an answer of utmost concern, but they have to decide the holders of the center and we'll see what we can do. It is also true that on the last trip of the Culture Councillor and the Secretary General of Emigration to Bos Aires they had a meeting, precisely with a representation of the mutualists, and we were told by headlines that the Union guarantees the heritage of the Galego Center in Bos Aires. Of course, on the one hand, the German Government itself, the Councillor for Culture or the People's Group's own spokespersons should point out — because of this GNP or other initiatives in which we are sure that we will have to work to secure the future of the Galician Centre in Bos Aires — in which terms are being used precisely that guarantee that the first of May, on that trip to Argentina, the Secretary of Emigration and the Councillor of Culture ensured. And we have come — as I said — precisely to this institutional declaration by Parliament of 21 March, which I believe should be the roadmap that we must follow all the political groups in this House. And precisely on the basis of the spirit, philosophy, of this institutional statement, by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the one hand, we tabled an amendment which, in some ways, tries to avoid possible confusion; to be a more corrective amendment to what is the health care for Galician emigration associated with the Centre Galego de Bos Aires itself. And, on the other hand, considering, firstly, that we are actually in the framework of external relations; and, secondly, that we are within the framework of a centre which obviously corresponds in its ownership to mutualists, for us more than to talk about possible procurement processes that can condition future management agreements, it is important — as we said in our PNL that we will also present in December — that the necessary mechanisms have been agreed upon with the Government of Argentina...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u95	...recovery to preserve — and finished, president — the entire artistic, documentary and bibliographic legacy of the Bos Aires Centre, and to give consent, of course, to solutions that prevent the property from being fruited by real estate speculation. This, and not another, was precisely the meaning of the institutional declaration and the guiding thread of our amendments, which we hope can be accepted. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u96	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Arias Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u97	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. At your initiative, Mrs Cuña, reference was made — in addition to what was also said here — to the situation of guaranteeing health care — which you have already appointed here — of the partner Greeks of the Galego Centre in Bos Aires. We must say and clarify first of all that all Spaniards residing in Argentina — and therefore all the Greeks residing in Argentina — have guaranteed free healthcare under an agreement that the Spanish Government has signed with the Argentine Government, and in which it also collaborates the Government of the United States of Galicia. In Argentina there is public health, there is also a social health system around social works, and there is a private sector in which cooperatives and health mutuals are included, and the latter belongs to the Galego Centre in Bos Aires. I mean, all members of the Bos Aires Galego Center pay a fee, and with that quota they have the right to complementary health services, which would be private insurance here in Spain. In drafting his initiative — not what he said here, and I understand that this was not the spirit — as his initiative was being drafted, it seemed to show that the German Government had to guarantee private health for the 170,000 Greeks who live in Bos Aires, and we understand that this was not the goal, but for the 800 partners who have the Galego Center in Bos Aires, who at some time had 100,000 and currently have 800 partners. Well, it must be said that they all have guaranteed that health care. If at some point there was a problem with the Galego Centre they could have such assistance through Spain under the same conditions, both as regards the payment of allowances and health benefits. Nor should we be concerned about the situation of Ospaña's social work, since it is in a position — for all the news we have — to be able to guarantee such assistance. So I think this is very important: health care is guaranteed for all the Greeks who live in Bos Aires. And if anyone has a problem on time, all they have to do is go to the Spanish embassy or to the Galician delegation in Bos Aires, where they will do the procedures, the information and the journey to be attended. There are funds for that, there are mechanisms for that, so no Greek should have any concern in this regard. You were also talking, on the other hand, about the building on the one hand and, on the other, about the cultural work on the other. He also said, in his exhibition, that the building was expected to be able to buy it from the Spanish Government, that was news that went out in Argentina and that he then failed, that is not so. And you're talking about buying it from the German Government. The German Government has always supported the Galego Center in Bos Aires. In the 1990s, the Centre Galego had difficulties and the Government was there to support it. In the year 2000, one again asks for that help and it is the partners themselves who ask the Galician Union, in this case through the Galician Health Foundation, who participates and who is in the government — as it were in some way — of the Galego Center of Bos Aires. During that time he was until 2011 at Junta de Galicia, and the same partners who asked him to be there, asked him to retire. The Board has retired, but it has already invested 20 million euros, plus 10 million euros that it has put in the end to keep the accounts healthy. Today there are around 70 million debts that the Argentine Government has created, and therefore it doesn't seem logical that neither the Spanish Government nor the German—the German in this case—will have to buy that building. What if the Greek Government is going to be is very attentive, as it has been at all times, on the one hand, to the health care of all the Greeks who are there, and on the other hand, to which the cultural and artistic legacy can be kept there, which can be enjoyed by all those who have contributed for many years to which it had been trained, and by the people and generations that come after. All the information we have for the visits that have been made there by representatives of the Government of Greece, recently the same Councillor for Culture and the Secretary General of Emigration, is that all parties that are negotiating the possible sale of the Galego Center in Bos Aires — a negotiation between private entities, we must remember — while still maintaining that will of the private entities that have to negotiate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u98	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u99	...all agree that the social work, the cultural work, the bibliographic funds are maintained, and so does the Argentine Government itself to the Spanish Government. So everyone agrees on that dynamic. The Greek Government will be careful and, if circumstances change, of course, measures will be taken so that this can be so and so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u100	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u101	...guaranteed, Mr. President, just a minute to say what our amendments are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u102	Not a minute, no more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u103	In this sense, our amendment is that if you were to be careful, as you are already being at all times, but to make it more clear to you that this is necessary, it did not seem to us much, but to be clear: Sailing by the cultural legacy of the artistic and bibliographic heritage of the Galego Center in Bos Aires, collaborating with its Argentine partners and representative institutions so that it can continue to enjoy the whole of the Greek society and society in Argentina...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u104	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u105	...and to ensure, together with the General Administration of the State, that associated Greek migrants can continue to enjoy assistance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u107	...health in case of need.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u108	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u109	We believe that this is the spirit of your initiative and therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u110	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u111	...we believe he'll accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u112	The Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u113	Good morning. One moment ago, charges were filed against the Galician Nationalist Block, in the previous debate, allowing me to tell you something, Mr. Fernández Gil: we will not accept at least the accusations that have been brought against the BNG with regard to the language situation here. But at the very least we're going to accept a lesson from one party that, at least remembering, we remember how it allied itself with the extreme right in February 2009, in a mobilization that attacked not the linguistic rights of this country, but directly begged that languages had no rights. [[Applause]] Lessons in the defense of language, none, none! And much less we're going to allow him charges like the ones he's seen here. [[Applause]] With regard to the question which is now being debated, through the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, I, Mrs Cuña, must acknowledge that we are absolutely in agreement with the substance of the issue, with which it is being debated in addition to now in the plenary, which is the guarantee, protection, conservation and safeguard, the future of the Galician Centre of Buenos Aires, in which it has to do with its cultural heritage, with the material, with the pictorial, with the sound, with the archive, which is also a good part of the history of our country and of the diaspora, of the emigration and exile of the Galician and the Greeks in Argentina, we are absolutely in agreement with that. Besides, there's a unanimous will, at least apparently, within this House, to guarantee that conservation, that protection and that safeguard. It is also, of course, with the maintenance of this provision and the health care of all the people who are attached to the Galego Centre in Buenos Aires, but it is true that I have to acknowledge that in form, by deriving all responsibility in the Government of the Spanish State, we do not agree, and I hope that in the subsequent debate, with regard to the amendments made by the other groups, we can make our position clear from the BNG. We have already defended it in various plenary sessions, and what we do not want in any case is to divert our attention to the political responsibility of the whole of Galician Union. Mr. Villoslada also commented on this, the Greek legal order itself so collects it, takes it into account in article 4 of Galicia's Cultural Heritage Act, where the obligation and responsibility of the Government of Galicia to safeguard the foreign heritage, in particular that which is found in the Greek communities laid down in Latin America, and also that Law of Galicia in article 27, which again collects the obligations and responsibility of the Government of Galicia, the Council of Galicia, in the defence and protection of that heritage, even considering the possibility that some part of that heritage, in the event that its protection, conservation and disclosure in this case in Argentina, as we might be talking about other Greek centers that we have found in the world ahead, worth the possibility that this heritage, in all the documentary, the sound and the intangible, can be brought to Galicia. We stand in the position that we defend from the very first moment, which is that the Union has to assume its political responsibilities; that the Union cannot look elsewhere or comment on the future of that heritage, nor on the health care that the people who are ascribed, who are mutualists and who are part of this Galego Centre in Buenos Aires. We understand that, within the political framework in which we are today, everything that has to do with external action is limited by the very limited capacity of the Government of Greece to act, that there is a part that corresponds to the Spanish State. But we also want to underline and make a lot of emphasis on what has to do with the exclusive responsibility that Galician Union has, above all, in the safeguard and protection, in the conservation and dissemination of that intangible heritage. I insist a lot on this question, Galicia is much more than the territory where we are right now. Galicia has a part of its history scattered throughout the world, particularly in Latin America, and we also have a responsibility to the Greek Government, which cannot be derived from other institutions, even in a political framework which is very limiting to the external action of the Union. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u114	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. By the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Cuña Bóveda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u115	Thanks to everyone and to everyone. There's enough nuances I'd like to make. First, of course, thank Mr. Juan Villoslada, for the Socialist Party of Galicia, for adding some relevant dates that really have to do with historical memory. He also claimed — and we did — information on that trip from the councillor on which he was not only the adviser, he was also the CEO of Emigration, and Mr. Anxo Lorenzo, too, and they spoke to the ambassador and to a lot of people there. We want to know what happened directly, not by the press. The Union must guarantee and, of course, know in what terms it will be instrumentalized. I'm going to continue with Mrs. Olalla Rodil's contribution, and we're also very much in agreement on the essentials. For example, we do not agree that the cultural and artistic work is coming to Galicia. It has its owners and its heritage. We say Galicia isn't just these four provinces, and we consider it brothers, like the same DNA we do, to people who are elsewhere in the world. We believe that they are the owners of this heritage, another thing is that it spreads and that it can be known, as it will be "The Last Lesson of the Master", of Castelao, who will travel here provisionally, but that it does not belong to the Galego Center of Bos Aires, but belongs to the Centre of Galicia. Mrs. Raquel Arias, both of your proposals talk about watching. When I think about watching, I don't know if I see him, I think about the sailor of Persona. People have a work, a static poem, in which the protagonists are three veilers, "The Time of Dreams," is a wonder. I recommend reading to everyone. But we, as political representatives, are to act, not to watch, not to be seated. It's amazing, they invented a social work to fund the center. They even obtained express permission from the President himself. For that they go, leave him out, put his friends away, then undo the disguise. The Resolution of March 18 is very important. They now have a legal obligation: 33% Galicia, 33% Spanish Government, 33% German Center in Bos Aires. We have to negotiate, we hope so. It's not to be accepted that things are done that way. So you have to say a lot more and I don't have much more time. But if we say that, of course, we will do an interpellation, we hope to continue negotiating, we hope that this house of which Muxo speaks — an Argentinian writer — has given an acubillo to the Greeks, which has received personalities, which has brought the Greek culture to the highest, which has physically and spiritually healed hundreds of thousands, who have attended the Castle... we must avoid a cruel outcome. It sounds like a lie you don't know how many partners there are. He spoke of 800. Data tells us it's 5,000.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u117	What are they saying? What's not relevant for the community to be cared for? We — I'm sorry, I'm done — if we want to make a deal and we have a concrete proposal. We have three points that we expect to be consensual by all groups. The first is to provide quality assistance, which is also in the spirit of the declaration of the center of Greece, to serve — here we listen, it is correct, the suggestion is correct — to the members of Spain, in addition to the current partners themselves. And this is something that all of us can agree on. To agree with the government — if the mutual agrees, of course, we cannot be above the mutual — the shared management between mutuality and the Greek and Spanish governments to preserve the artistic, documentary and bibliographic heritage.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u118	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u119	And finally, to finish, take what the law says: those measures tending to ensure the proper functioning of the bodies of the Ospaña social work, appointing the corresponding representatives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u121	Thank you for this time too long, but the subject is worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u122	Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the action to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in connection with the financing of the construction works of the external port of Punta Langosteira and its connections, as well as the position of the Parliament of Galicia in relation to the return by the Central Government to the city of the Calvo Sotelo, Battery and San Diego docks guaranteeing its destination for social purposes
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u123	This motion for a non-law tabled two amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u124	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u125	Good morning, gentlemen. I wanted to start defending this initiative today because I made a quote from an ex-conseller of the People's Party who is also very up-to-date, because I think he's entered the summer card market and he's talking about it these days. In any case, this former Popular Party adviser left us here saying in this Parliament that the press were notaries of the truth. And I think it is important today that we go to those notaries of the truth to see how wrong decisions have been made in their moment on issues that are fundamental and vital, as we are currently dealing with in this initiative in which we, indeed, want to reach an agreement that allows us to unlock a situation that is fundamental, relevant, for the future of the city of Coruña, as it will pass with the entire inland shoreline, because it is undoubtedly the most relevant debate that you have before the table — or on the table — the city of Coruña, and we think that it cannot be hypothesized neither by party nor by mistakes that could be made in the past. And indeed, we have to go to the past, and there we are going on January 25, 2003, that President Aznar, who told us that Mr Feijóo was very proud to participate in that government of progress as a high office. Well, that president Aznar, who managed to turn an accident into an environmental catastrophe, like that of the Prestige, thought he could cover up the outrage in this country with the evil management that had been done in that crisis with promises and propaganda. And he saw the 25th of January 2003 make a council of ministers -- where they did what the notaries of history remind us of, I think it's good to do these memoirs -- and at that time Aznar guarantees that all the cities of Greece would be connected by AVE with Madrid in less than three hours. I also promised us more chapote, in this case by bus, do it!, I promised two new buses between Pontevedra and La Cañiza and another between Monforte and Chantada. And he promised to speed up the planned highways — look out here Lugo — he told us: Santiago-Lugo will come out of the news study in February, will connect Ourense and Lugo in May, and the Cantabrian bus will exit the bidding the fourteen tranches consecutively from March. We're talking in 2003. And the third point of these promises, at those tragic moments, was that the Central Government would commit itself to the execution of the outer port of the Crown. Finally, the decision on the outer port of the Coruña is taken in 2004 and has been made under conditions that we believe are not conditions that are of receipt, not from the point of view of the city of Coruña, nor from the point of view of dealing with Galicia, because we see here works that are State-owned, that the State has committed — among other things — to prevent an accident like the Prestige from having no haven, we see how these decisions pretend not to pay the state and that it has to pay the city of Coruña. And besides, such works as the works of the outer port, in which there are many things to explain. The Harbour Authority, for example, does not explain the overcosts of this port, we're talking about overcosts that exceed 600 million of the initial cost. But here's a fact about what's getting very few focussed, but we think it's very relevant to this debate, and it's a work that decides to do the state, which is State competence, then it turns out that it's going to go out for free or almost free. And why would we say that? Because when we're going to see who's financing the external port of the city of Coruña, we see that the government's commitment to Galicia on this issue is zero, because really here what was meant was most of the structural and cohesion funds, that is, European funds, 260 million. A loan has been made in advantageous terms of 130 million European Bank and there is then another loan that makes State ports worth 250, and there is still a huge vacuum that, in any case, will have to define the state and those who are in the Harbour Authority, as they are putting in place actions and works without having the financing and allowing such a high overcost. From the Galician Nationalist Block what we have very clearly is that what cannot be said is that the financing of the external port of the Coruña mortgages the largest urban transformation that the city of Coruña has pending. And what we're not worth, under any concept, is that you want to provide a model that is absolutely out of date and failed. And why do we say this? Because, in the end, what you want, what you're trying to do right now is to continue with a model of city where you want to build more housing, in a city that is full of empty housing, and continue with that model of commercial macrocentres, in a city that is completely saturated with shopping centers. In fact, if we follow and see the shoreline of the Coruña, we see the failure of that model, because there is some closed mall. And we therefore think that in the face of a debate on these characteristics we cannot be told that the future of the city of Coruña was written in 2004. And this is undoubtedly the most important debate this city has, but it's also a debate that basically talks about what role Galicia has within the state and who should fund those works. And we have very clear that this debate cannot be closed to false, and at least one political party can try to steal a city's freedom to define how it wants to be its future. Because that's really what's in the little letter of that protocol, which -- I think -- shamelessly signed three administrations in the hands of the People's Party, excluding an administration in an act of institutional loyalty that I think has no precedent and that, in any case, what makes it very clear to us is how the People's Party is much more interested in partying on this subject than in making a city. So for us that protocol is not valid and it is important that we go to the underlying problem that we have in the debate about the future of the coastal border of the city of Coruña and, therefore, we ask the State that it is he who assumes the financing of those works of the outer port and that the city of Coruña, with participation, be the one who decides the city model in which he wants to live. And this is basically what we are now claiming on this two-point initiative: the first is that we have a great deal of agreement to be the State that really finances the works of the outer port of Punta Langosteira, that we join in defense of the country, because it is really the State that has to pay for it. And on this subject let me stop for a minute. When we analyze what's going on elsewhere, and in other ports, we see how the deal is very different. Because we have examples of many ports where lands that have been stopped using ports have returned free of charge to the city, in fact the amendment of the PSOE collects concretely how the law allows this to be done. And it's not just that the law allows it to be done, that we already have examples in other parts of the state. But in addition, when we're going to look at how other external ports were financed, we see how the state had resources to finance: Xixon, 700 million; Valencia, 1 billion; Barcelona 1,300 million; Bilbao 2,000 million. And even now we are watching a situation that is still very paradoxical, because if we are told that there are no resources, that we cannot fund from state funds the outer port of the Crown, but, however, the State could assume the private debt of the companies that built the Madrid radials. I mean, the State can socialize the losses of these construction companies and yet tell us that it is a sin, that I suppose it is immutable, that it cannot finance a work that the State has decided, that it has committed nothing more and nothing less than in the midst of the Prestige disaster and that now they want us to pay for mortgages on the future of the city of Coruña. I believe that today in this Parliament we can do something useful, not only for the future of the city of Coruña, but for the dignity of this country, which is to demand that it be the State that takes the cost of Punta Langosteira and that the city of Coruña, free to decide its future. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we meet this challenge, that I am convinced that many citizens of the Crown claim us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u126	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. You now have the floor by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u127	Thank you. In the past full we had the opportunity to debate some initiative on this essential and key theme, and not only for the future, but for the present of the Crown, of the city of Coruña. The other day we also had an opportunity to debate in the Commission. I have the impression that we will have more time in full and commission to debate this transcendental matter for our city. I won't get tired of repeating that I miss the presence, precisely, of the Environment Adviser in these debates, at least to listen, because it happens that you are also a Territorial Ordinator. It happens that he is also a member of the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority. Yesterday you came here to talk about circular economy or economy of a circle -- give me more of the impression -- but I think you have to face it when you have a certain bet. Yesterday Mr. Trenor suffered a certain goyesco whim, because the dream of reason can sometimes produce monsters; it is not a betrayal of the subconscious, I think that in some cases it is to know how to give institutional response, precisely when a certain role is represented. [[Applause]] Our position in these different debates, that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and that of the Socialist Municipal Group, is absolutely clear: the 2004 conventions have not been born — and I want to insist on this and I will always insist — to mortgage the city. The 2004 conventions — and we all know — were born to give the city of Coruña greater security, greater environmental quality, and to position the port of Coruña, the port system of Coruña and the port system of Greece, ultimately in a much more competitive position in what is the European Atlantic façade. Of course, we also said it -- and let's say it again -- fourteen years have passed, and the economic conditions, the conditions, too, sociological, the conditions, of course, urbanistic and the development prospects of the city have changed substantially. We too, like all the political groups in the city, except for the People's Party, believe, or believe, that you are making a radical mistake, and the important thing is not that the People's Party is wrong in the Coruña, the important thing is that the mistake is the city of Coruña. And in that sense, it seemed to us that I do not know whether or not on April 18th President Feijóo and the Minister of State Development and Ports signed, without counting absolutely for nothing with the Council of the Crown, that protocol. By the way, I would ask, in the event of intervention by some popular spokesperson on this issue, why are 20 million euros committed in that protocol? We should know what that fee is for in a protocol. We asked to be explained. We ask, precisely, that expenditure permit file, why there are 20 million, why that amount, why that amount, why that 51%, etc. There are many questions, we suppose they don't respond to hidden interests. But, ultimately, what we demand is the highest institutional loyalty to the Council of the Crown, to the Mayor of the Council of the Crown. The 2004 conventions, as we all remember, signed by the various Ministers of Development, were always signed by the Mayor of the Crown and also by the Mayor of Artixo when he was affected by his municipal area. I think, really, as we also said, you can't come to the Coruña to sign that protocol -- as we also said -- by the back door. You can't come to mortgage the city's urban development without the Town Hall, it's absolutely impossible, and you know it; you know it perfectly well, you were Town Councilman, you know it perfectly, Mr. Martín Fernández Prado. That is why we are insisting that — and so it was approved the other day unanimously in the municipal plenary — is the follow-up commission of the 2004 conventions to carry out that review, which goes to consortial formulas. And I would ask why cities like Seville, why cities like Santa Cruz de Tenerife, why cities like Valencia or Bilbao, received in free transfer, according to the port legislation of the State, harbour spaces, and can verify it in the Official State Bulletin, or how recently there is an agreement between the Bilbao Town Hall, the Basque Government, the Ministry of Development and the Harbour Authority of Bilbao to collaborate in the urban development, in this case, of Bilbao. Why isn't Coruña in that category? Tell him. It's not as long as the Town Hall does not participate as a major actor in this urban development, and they know it perfectly well. [[Murmurs.]] That is why we have tabled a series of amendments, one to ask, precisely, Mrs Pontón, that constitution of the follow-up commission of the 2004 conventions to make this review and, secondly, to make it viable with a legal instrument already available in the Ports Act of the State of the Merchant Navy, as is the free assignment, why? For public use, the public utility or social interest of these soils of the shores of Battery, Calvo Sotelo and San Diego, if decided precisely in the city forum, that is, in the municipal urban plan. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u129	Good morning to all, too, at the top. Mr. Villoslada, you have every question! Why does Junta want 51% of Zone 1 on the port? To control them, to control them, not the citizenship of the Crown. Well, that's why they have 51% signed up on this infamous, shameful protocol that we won't forget in a long time. The protocol signed behind the Democratic Corporation of the Council of the Crown and hence behind the citizenship of the Crown. As always, the People's Party has the clear intention, always bet on the ballast and real estate speculation, had to correct many times because there's a very large force in the city of Coruña in the same sense. There is a vast majority of the Coruña citizenship that wants democracy, that is, to be able to democratically decide what will be done on those 400,000 square meters of the Coruña coastline, which is a future opportunity for The Coruña: democracy. The People's Party opts to sign a protocol behind citizenship. And, on the other hand, the people in Coruña are clear, too, that it is an opportunity to rebalance the city, to give you the appropriations you don't have now, to give you the green spaces you don't have now, to give you the way out to the sea they want, etc., etc. I mean, it's a chance for the future that you can't hypothesize on the pretext of financing the works of the outside port, which is a hypothesis and that it's a complete fate that is not justified. But besides the vast majority of people who bet on these issues, democracy, opportunity, etc., are that demands are of common sense, that people defend them and are of common sense; therefore, the People's Party has already rectified in the past and will have to correct again. Yesterday I was asking the absent environment counselor, Mrs. Bea Mato, and as I've always been without answers, I've asked him eight times and he doesn't answer, he gets colored but doesn't answer. I told you, why did you vote in favour of the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority to privatize Solana's land? He didn't answer or explain to the Mayor of the Crown, he didn't give explanations of such a transcendent theme. Well, there the People's Party had to rectify, there's no proposal for municipalities in the town of Coruña that can be defended under the criteria of defending the privatization of the port lands, and you know it. So, in this case that you in this protocol bet on Zone 2 — which is 80% of the land on the coast, 344,000 square meters —, you still bet on the 2004 agreements. And what does it mean to shield the 2004 agreements? It means that there are 4,000 dwellings planned, some of them up to nine heights. They're still betting on the model of the urban ballast. So that's also out of what the Coruña citizenry wants, he doesn't want 4,000 housing, he wants doping, productive, social spaces, green spaces, etc., and at least he wants to be able to decide on it. We only have to wait how long it will take for the People's Party to rectify, and this real estate operation is justified, and it was justified in 2004 with the conventions, on the pretext that the works of the outer port must be financed. We therefore also support BNG's request, but that proposal was wrong for us in 2004, much more so now. The sale of these land for the construction and privatization of real estate agents would not solve, by far, an important part of the debt that the Harbour Authority today has, would not even serve to cover a quarter of the current debt; therefore, it makes no sense to mortgage the entire future of the Coruña coast so as not to solve the problem of debt. That's why we need to give you solutions that will come from debt restructuring, from changing deadlines, from the best management of the external port to generate those revenues. The delay in rail connection also influenced those results, those bad results, that increase in debt, but they're not going to come by selling the soil on the shoreline of the Coruña. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they don't use institutions with partisan intent, I know that they have that culture installed in their ranks, you consider that the institutions belong to you, and in the Coruña they have the same right as voters of the People's Party, the Socialist Party, the Atlantic Sea and those of the Nationalist Block Galego. [[Murmurs.]] You as the Galician Union do not represent the People's Party, they represent, or should represent, all of the citizenship of Galicia, and the citizenship of the Crown — both the PP, the Socialist Party, the BNG or the Atlantic Sea — have the right to decide their future, which enters their heads...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u130	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u131	...because, besides, all they're going to do is extend the period you're going to have to rectify, because the force of demands is unstoppable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. We take advantage to greet the 5th primary students of CEIP Lamas de Abade de Santiago de Compostela who accompany us at this moment in the rostrum. To continue, you have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr Trenor López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u133	Thank you very much, President. A greeting to all the guests, to the students and to the others who are listening to us. I would like to thank the Nationalist Bloc for bringing this initiative, because if I were what brought it, what they would say is that I am doing localism from this Parliament, that I am on an electoral campaign, or that I have partisan interests to deal with purely local issues in this Parliament. But as you are, we're not going to think that you have any electoral interest in the Crown or to put your finger on Mr. Ferreiro's eye. It is a shame, Mrs Pontón, that everything you say here now, at the moment, had not done it 13 years ago, or that you had not done it five years ago or ten years ago, because you were already a Member then, and you were already a Member when the 2014 Conventions were incorporated into the General Plan of Management of the Coruña with the votes of the Nationalist Block, without any modification of the genuine agreement, without any change! [[Protests.]] And your vows, Mrs Pontón, also served to support governments that did not finance neither the train nor the port of Coruña, and that incorporated, in addition, new obligations, new obligations to sell the assets of the coruñas, and you were already a Member. And the Socialist Party, Mr. Villoslada, look what you're talking about is that we're wrong, that we're wrong... Sure, I guess, I guess something will. What do you want to talk about? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you want to take the shift? Look, you signed the first protocol and the first agreements, you approved the Plan Busquets, you did all the urban processes under the hands of the Galician Nationalist Block, the two joints, the two joints. They ask for different things here than they ask in the Town Hall of the Crown. Of course, how are people going to resign? How are people not going to let go if you're betraying decades of socialist work in the Coruña? Decades. Of course, so you'll be completely alone! They just stayed! And everything, everything, for that play of thrones where you are, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Look, both the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block are accomplices to the tide. You were talking about partisanism, Mr. Sánchez, partisanism. And you say partisanism and you don't see today's Coruña press, you haven't seen it, you haven't seen that partisanism so you add the file you have to send to the Advisory Council? Isn't that partyism? Is that what it is? Is it not partyism to have the institutional disloyalty of The Tide with the rest of the administrations? Isn't partisanism paralyzing only for the interests of his own organization? Or is it not partyism to hire, judge and assign immovables to its signatories? Isn't that partyism? What do you call that? Look, you paralysed Alfonso Molina, uniquely and exclusively, to be able to give contracts to his signatures, because the paralysing report was from his signature. You paralysed the empty housing plan so you could buy apartments for a director of your organization. That is partisanism, Your Honor. They blocked the intermodal, the new police building, the Falperra health center, and they did, uniquely and exclusively, by party, because the neighbours and neighbours of the Coruña didn't earn anything at all. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as I say to the opposition, the signed protocol ensures that the port remains of the corrupt. Bring in, Bloc lords, one new initiative, another one, and within a month they'll bring another one asking the contrary. You are also puzzled by the President's involvement in this matter, but I would like to remind you that there have been other initiatives, such as those in the plenary session of the Council of the Crown, or of this Parliament, requesting the President's intervention to seek solutions to this issue, and that is exactly what the President of the Council of Galicia has done, bringing solutions. Look, democracy, Mr. Sánchez, is to comply with the motions, to comply with the motions that approve the full democracy of the Council of the Crown, and I made a memory while you were speaking: you don't follow the empty housing plan, you don't meet the free bus of 18th-century minors, you don't meet the full-lengths in the neighborhoods, you don't need to open a case to the chief of staff, the real mayor, who called the journalists, the officials and the rest of the opposition. That's not democratic, Mr. Sánchez, it's not democratic. Democratic is to comply with the agreement of the plenary that requests the floor file to be sent to the Advisory Council. Look, thanks to this protocol, the harbour areas of Battery and Calvo Sotelo will become part of a public body of which all public administrations, such as the Deputy and the Town Hall, can be part of. And I'm telling you one thing, they're going to be part of it, and if they're not part of it now, they're going to be part of it in a year, because within a year there's going to be a change of government, and these administrations are going to be incorporated into this protocol, they're going to be incorporated into this protocol, they're going to be incorporated, they're going to be incorporated! [[Protests.]] [[Applause]] But look, Mr. Sánchez and Mrs. Pontón, the deal has more positive things... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u134	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u135	...as 20 million euros that will put together the Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u136	Silence and listen to who is in the use of the word!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u137	...to have the future property of a part of the San Diego pier. And the agreement also brings other positive things, like EUR 140 million in charge of state budgets, by state budgets and not port to make railway connections to Punta Langosteira. And that's what you're opposing. Ladies and gentlemen, for all this I have exposed, sum up, contribute and not block the agreement that puts the neighbours and the neighbours of Coruña above the party conflicts, above the egos...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u138	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u139	...of the egos of those who do nothing, and above the lies that you are throwing. It is added to the public property of these lands forming part of a public entity where all administrations are. They add up by forming part, but also by adding resources and projects, and contribute to the determination of the uses to which parcels are dedicated so that they continue to play a leading role in the economic and social sector of the Crown. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor. Mrs. Pontón Mondelo has the floor on the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u141	Well, it looks like this is Mr. Trenor's exit gun, see if you get a job on the municipal list. Anyway, he did very well, he put a lot of enthusiasm on him, I think he's still going on and he's going to get it. [[Applause]] In any case, I will begin by thanking them, too, for the interventions and amendments that have been made by both the En Marea Group and the Socialist Group, and in that sense we are ready to accept the first point of the socialist amendment. The second one we believe is that it results in something that already appears in our amendment and deletes something that is important to us; therefore that second point we would not accept it. And with regard to the Amendment of En Marea, saying that we are willing to accept them as an addendum and not as a suppression. And the representative of the People's Group came here to make statements that are... well, I think they're already negotiating Mr. Trenor's post. [[Murmurs.]] Well, he came to make some surprising statements, the first one is that the financing of Punta Langosteira is a local issue; the ill-treatment of the state to Galicia and the discrimination that this foreign port is supposed to not finance the state now turns out to be a local matter. [[Laughter]] Well, no, no, it's a matter of first importance and that's why we're bringing it to this debate. [[Applause]] Of course, it is lacking respect for Galicia and the city of Coruña the intervention that Mr Trenor has just made here, which sells us as a great achievement that some lands that are public, which were from the city of Coruña, which are from the city of Coruña, we have to put 21 million euros to continue to be public and we pay him the debts that the state has caused from Galicia. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] It's an absolute coat of hair! [[Applause]] And they never talk about which is the little letter of this new revenge by Mr. Feijóo de Galicia, and it is allowed to continue to speculate on the grounds of San Diego. That's what you don't mean. Because whoever approved that general plan where it's allowed... I don't know if you want to intervene, do you want to intervene? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] I mean, if you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u142	Quiet, please. Listen to who's using the word, Mrs. Pontón. You can go on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! The debate isn't centered on those lines, it's speaking to Mrs. Pontón. Listen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u143	Well, I, if you let me talk... I don't know. Can I talk?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u144	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u145	Well, thank you very much. As I was going to tell you, whoever wants to consolidate a speculative operation and who has approved a general plan that also gives added value to private companies that would correspond to the municipality was a government of the People's Party. And today what we bring here is the proposal that since this Parliament we should argue that Galicia should have the same treatment as other territories, and that external ports should finance the state and not be made mortgaged on the future of the city of Coruña. The People's Party has to retreat, what do you prefer, to sell the town of Coruña...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u146	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u147	...or do we make a common front from Galicia to claim what would be fair to this country? And by the way, allow the city of Coruña an urban transformation that does not mortgage its future with more housing, more buildings and more shopping centers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u148	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u149	You decide, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u150	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u151	Let us now turn to the votes of the non-legislative proposals. Close the doors, please. We are voting on the first non-legislative proposal by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and seven other Members, on the impetus by the Galician Council for the recognition measures and actions for the companies that cooperate and participate in the development of the FP. The amendments were not accepted, so we moved on to the vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and seven other Members, on the impetus for the Galician Union for the measures and actions of recognition for the companies that collaborate and participate in the development of the FP. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 35; votes against, 17 with abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u152	We move on to the next vote of the Non-Legal Proposal, to 3.2 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and three other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the consideration of "proximity" for the Atlantic railway line of Galicia, as well as the opening, in parallel, of a dialogue process to increase the frequency of the railway services offered and lower the price of train tickets. There's a transaction you can read, Mr. Torrado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u153	Yes, we incorporated in the two points of the amendment, the second in full and the first in the amendment would be as follows: "Asking the Government of the State for approval in 2018 of a project to upgrade the railway line La Coruña-Ferrol and to study its possible incorporation into the AVE line."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u154	Thank you very much. Voting of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal by G. P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and three other Members, on the demand by the German Government to the Central Government for the consideration of "proximity" for the Atlantic railway line of Galicia, as well as the opening, in parallel, of a dialogue process to increase the frequencies of the railway services offered and lower the price of train tickets. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 35. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u155	We turn to the following non-law proposal, 3.3 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the financing of local authorities. There's a transaction proposal. If you can read it, Mrs. Rumbo, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u156	Add a point No. 4 to put it: "Ask the State to negotiate a new local funding framework that takes account of the unanimously approved demands of all political groups within the Fegamp".
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u157	Thank you very much. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the financing of local entities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 35. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u158	We move on to the next initiative, 3.4 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Ms Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the measures to be taken and the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece to ensure the access of the Greek society to audiovisual content that distributes the different platforms in the original version subtitled in Greek. No amendments were tabled, so we moved on to vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Ms Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the measures to be taken and the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to ensure the access of the Greek society to audiovisual content that distributes the different platforms in original version subtitled in English. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 35. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u159	We move on to the following initiative, 3.5 of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and eight other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the construction of a new variant for Ribeira, between the glorious end of the highway of Barbana AG-11 and the road DP-7303. The amendment was not accepted. So let's move on to the vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and eight other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the construction of a new variant for Ribeira, between the glorious end of the motorway of Barbana AG-11 and the road DP-7303 The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 49; votes against, 6; abstentions, 11. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u160	We move on to the next initiative, 3.6 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to promote the normal use of the Greek language and facilitate its knowledge in child education, as well as in childcare centres. There's an amendment that I have noted that it has been accepted. So we voted for the initiative by incorporating that amendment. [[Pause.]] Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Ms. Paula Vázquez Verao, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece to promote the normal use of the Greek language and facilitate their knowledge in child education as well as in child care centres. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 35. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u161	We proceed to the vote of 3.7 from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mrs Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and twelve other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government to safeguard the health care provided by the Centre Galego de Bos Aires, as well as its heritage, its social work and its legacy. Is there a transaction, Mrs. Cuña? With the PP it is not accepted, but it accepted the amendment — I understand it — of the Socialists of Galicia. [[Madam Cuña Bóveda utters words that are not perceived.]] Can you read it? If not, I have it here. The deal with the Socialist Party is as follows: "1. Provide quality assistance at the Centre Galego Hospital to provide service to the Ospaña affiliates, in addition to the current partners of the Centre Galego. 2. Agree with the Government of the Republic of Argentina, if mutuality accepts it, the shared management between mutuality and the Greek and Spanish governments for the preservation of artistic, documentary and bibliographical heritage and the protection of the immovable against speculation. 3. Take those measures to ensure the proper functioning of the bodies of the Ospaña social work, appointing the corresponding representatives". That is therefore the text we put to the vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. In Marea, at the initiative of Ms. Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and twelve other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government to safeguard the health care provided by the Centre Galego de Bos Aires, as well as its heritage, its social work and its legacy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 35. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u162	And we passed the vote on the last PNL, 3.8... Excuse me? [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] In relation to...? [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u163	I would like to ask that the first point of the initiative be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u164	Okay. He wouldn't let me read the initiative. No problem, but... Voting of the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Ms. María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the action to be taken by the Council of Galicia in connection with the financing of the construction works of the outer port of Punta Langosteira and its connections, as well as the position of the Parliament of Galicia in relation to the return by the Central Government to the city of the Courña of the wharfs of Calvo Sotelo, Battery and San Diego guaranteeing its destination for social purposes. I understand you're asking for the vote on the first point, but here in the gallery you talked about accepting the first point of the PSOE. With that amendment. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] And that's what we voted for separately, and the rest of the points. And do you accept how to add the amendment of In Marea? Tamen? [[Mr. Pontón Mondelo: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u165	But it's just separating the first point and then the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u166	Okay. Do you understand what we're going to vote for? [[Murmurs.]] On this initiative, the rapporteur said he accepted... do you have...? Can you read it, please?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u167	I think it's very simple. Really with the amendments that there was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u168	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u169	I don't know, if I bother anyone, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u170	No, no, don't worry, it's not annoying.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u171	If anyone wants to do this... I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u172	Read it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u173	I'm following your instructions, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u174	That's why.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u175	The first point says: "The Parliament urges the Galician Union to push for the signing of a new agreement between the Council of the Crown, the Council of Galicia, the Ministry of Development and the Port Authority of the Coruña so that the State assumes the commitment to pay the full cost of the debts of the Port Authority of the Coruña for the construction of the outer port of Punta Langosteira and its connections. And for this purpose, the follow-up commission provided for in the eighth clause of the agreements signed in February and October 2004 will be urgently". And then, from there, there's the second point, which was original at the BNG initiative, and how it adds the amendment of En Marea. As you can see, it's very simple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u176	All right. Well, thank you very much for the clarification. Then we voted the first point separately, as if we had just read. Voting of the first point of the transactional text of the Proposal is not G.P. law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms. María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the action to be taken by Junta de Galicia in connection with the financing of the construction works of the external port of Punta Langosteira and its connections, as well as the position of the Parliament of Galicia in relation to the return by the Central Government to the city of the Calvo Sotelo, Battery and San Diego docks guaranteeing its destination for social purposes. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 35. The result of the vote is negative. The first point of this initiative is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u177	And now we move on to the vote on the rest of the points of this initiative, incorporating the amendment of En Marea. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms. Maria Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the action to be taken by Junta de Galicia in connection with the financing of the construction works of the external port of Punta Langosteira and its connections, as well as the position of the Parliament of Galicia in relation to the return by the Central Government to the city of Coruña dos peiraos de Calvo Sotelo, Battery and San Diego guaranteeing its destination for social purposes, except the first point, already voted The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 35. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these points of the non-law proposal are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u178	So now we move on to the next point, but before I start, I'd like to move two things to them. First, keep a minute of silence, I invite all your lords in memory of the deadly victims of the repression recorded there are few dates in the Gaza Strip. Violence is never the way to resolve conflicts. If you agree. [[Pause.]] [[The honourable Members and the honourable Members, standing by, shall keep a minute of silence.]] [[Applause]] Institutional statement on the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u179	And we're also left, before we get to the point of questioning, to read an institutional statement by the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia. "On this day we celebrate the elimination of homosexuality from the list of mental disorders by the General Assembly of the World Health Organization, which took place on May 17, 1990. A day like this is essential to highlight the importance of continuing to advance in the field of real and effective rights and equality of the LGTBI collective. Despite the progress in recent years in the field of legislation in this matter, today we continue to observe in our society cases of discrimination, bullying and LGTBI+phobia. On 1 March the European Parliament adopted the Report on Fundamental Rights in the Union in 2016. In this context, the situation of the LGTBI population is taken into account and urges the Member States of the Union to implement the appropriate measures to end discrimination. It's mentioned the need for supra-state recognition of same-sex unions, as well as for the depathology of transsexuality and the prohibition of sexual orientation repair therapies. This report is on the path marked by the principles of Yogyakarta of 2006 and the Joint UN Declaration of 2015 calling on states to act urgently to end violence and discrimination against adults, adolescents and LGBTI children. On this day, the Galician Parliament defends the need to reactivate debate and work around the protection of this collective, to prevent us from losing more lives like that of Ekai, Carla and Thalia. Let us seek real and effective equality!!Oh, my God! Santiago de Compostela, May 23, 2018"
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u180	And now if we move on to point 4 of interpellations. Mr Juan Díaz Villoslada and five other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the strategy of the Council of Galicia to encourage the full return of the emigration of the people of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u181	Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u182	Thank you. First of all, I would like to greet the representatives of different associations of migrants, the immigration returned to Galicia, and welcome Vice President and Counsellor, because it is true that we must be brave to emigrate to the unknown. And therefore we must also be brave all of us in this House and, of course, especially brave the government, in this case the Greek Government, to receive and accompany the Greeks and the Greeks who decided to return to their homeland. And, in this sense, since the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have again brought this initiative in the form of an appeal to the Government, because already at the plenary session of 28 December 2016 we had the opportunity to debate an NLP, a non-legislative proposal, in which the Socialists put on the Bureau of the House a whole series of problems that were suffering the return to Galicia emigration and which unfortunately remain and are being fully present. And in some specific cases, as we will talk about Venezuela, with even more intensity. We just discussed earlier an LNP where we were talking about the situation of an entire center like the Galego Center in Bos Aires, and we all agreed that Galicia is in the four provinces, but Galicia is also out, Galicia is also in the diaspora. I don't know if there's more reason or less. When emigrants return, we must at least have the same concern to accompany them, to ensure that they have the same social conditions of reintegration into life in Galicia, as when we worry about diaspora. At least the same, because we have to make an effort to welcome those who left. And in that sense, in that debate on 28 December 2016, which seems to have been a long time ago, but it is recent, we gathered as in the investment debate on 8 November 2016 the president of the Board himself stated in his speech that one of the Government's priorities in the area of emigration would be to facilitate the return of those who had to emigrate the cause of the economic crisis, and that situation was recognized in recent years. And he then pointed out in the investment debate that the actions to promote return also addressed the descendants of the migrants, trying to attract the second and third generation Greeks that are residing in the countries where our brothers and sisters traditionally emigrated. I thought President Núñez Feijóo that the promotion of return would also help reverse the demographic fall that strongly affects Galicia, as we all know. The return of all the Greeks and the Greeks who want to return from Argentina, Uruguay, Cuba or Venezuela would also help, said the president, revitalize our society and fill Galicia with new blood that drives us in the coming decade. I said it was certainly a euphoric reference by President Núñez Feijóo. What happened in December 2016 — or previous months and it continues to happen — is that reality, day by day, is very different, because many of the migrants, many of the returned Welsh and Welsh immigrants are suffering a situation that is palmally opposed to the great words of the President. As we know, the different platforms and associations of emigrants, of returned emigration that group and defend rights and, also said, the desires of the emigration Greeks that return or intend to return, come and continue to express and publicly express a lack of support and sensitivity to their needs once they return. This problem, of course, affects in a much more intense way those less trained brothers or those people who have less resources, and, above all, those people of an advanced age who by this age may have a greater obstacle to reacting to the pitfalls or the lack of facilities for their return. It was enough to observe a whole series of problems that we can continue to observe to be aware of this situation. We put on the table as the intense campaigns that still exist from the Tax Agency on the regularization of the IRPF over periods evidently not prescribed, and even sometimes in situations of double taxation — as with Germany, which did not proceed by double taxation agreements — were punishing and continuing to punish migrants in an absolutely indefensible manner. Even the technicians of Fairy made the complaint that the Tax Agency really was or seemed to be pursuing more of its own migrants than pursuing the big fraud bags. We also pointed out that the cuts in health care rights, on the occasion of that Royal Decree 16/2012, were breaking and breaking the principle of universality of the system. We also put it on the table, and we didn't — that is, we collected the concerns of returned emigration platforms — as there were important problems in accessing dependency recognitions or residentials by older people who also came from emigration. We put the focus in a special way, and we'll talk something more monographically about the returned emigration from Venezuela, or we'll also put on this rostrum and the committee tables a question that goes on late throughout Europe, as is the lack of sufficient commitment by the Central Government and the Government of the Union to the sailors who sailed in the Norwegian merchants. That is why we were presenting that initiative in which we called for the Government of the Union to develop and put in place an integral strategy towards 2020 for returned Greeks with full participation, by the way, of the associations representing returned emigration. And I remember, coming to the Journal of Sessions, as in that speech, by Mrs Arias, in some way if we were being rebuked by the socialists or if we were wondering, in some way, what we were asking for. They really said to us, "Do you know that Galicia already has an immigration plan and a return plan specifically for 2014-2016?" We were asked: Do you know that Galicia has a plan to ensure attention, to ensure assistance and to ensure protection for the Greek residents abroad? When we made this non-law proposal, Mrs Arias, the answer was given by the German Government itself when a few weeks ago we approved the Strategy back in 2020. From here, we'll talk later. Some data, which I think are important to frame the situation. Addressing the Pattern of Spanish Residents in the Exterior, the PERE, with data from the INE on 1 January 2018, Spain has resided abroad among immigrants and descendants of migrants a total of 2,482,000 Spaniards. Galicia represents 21% of residents abroad, 516,489 Welsh and Welsh reside abroad. Approximately 70,000 more than the Welsh resident abroad in 2012. Argentina occupies the first place with 457,000, with an increase from 2017 of 2%; France the second place, with 253,000, with a 4% increase; and Venezuela the third place, then there were 167,000 and there was a loss of emigration in Venezuela that has returned more than 7%, more than 13,000 Greeks and Greeks. And it is true — although the data on emigration always present at times certain confusion or not an absolute reliability by the component proper to emigration — that since the second half of 2016 the migration balance in Galicia, effectively according to the INE data, has reverted in some way. Because it took us eight years where the migration balance was negative. What is going on is that there should be an analysis of whether the return of so many Welsh and Welsh people from Venezuela is, of course, affecting these new numbers. In the middle of almost a year ago, on May 24, last year, we also put the emphasis on emigration in Venezuela. At that time, there were 200,000 Spaniards in Venezuela, approximately 45,000 Welsh and Welsh. And the current situation of returned emigration from Venezuela affects 7,000 migrants in Spain and 3,000 in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u183	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u184	So — and I will finish — we have reached an agreement, a transaction, precisely the mechanisms proposed by the People's Group itself to ensure that all commitments with the Government of Venezuela were taken forward, and if there were no commitments with the Government of Venezuela, so that the Central Government, in some ways, would use the pension criterion, actually, perceived and not recognized...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u186	...to remain entitled to all aid. This is neither the situation nor the commitment made in this House by the People's Party to the Socialist Party in that transaction, it is not going forward either in Galicia or outside Galicia, apart from other matters that we will then have occasion to speak in turn with regard to certain aid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u188	...incontributory jurisdiction of the Autonomous Community. Thank you very much and we'll have a chance to continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u189	That's right. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I also welcome, as I do not, the platforms of returned migrants that are here today, and I am truly glad that they are here to hear about topics that affect them very directly and in which, of course, the Government of Greece has a maximum interest, and which I believe it has worked, and worked elsewhere, but has worked especially — before — during the last year, too — which has averaged since, indeed, Mr Villoslada, a late 2016 GNP. I am glad that a year and a half later they consider it interesting to ask the Government again about this subject. Nice to have a chance, and more in front of the people here, to show that during this year, I insist, especially — before too — that a very important effort has been made. Your question is concrete, indeed, as you said, then in the reply we will have the opportunity to realize even more in places where it is especially interesting and necessary to concretely, and in particular, as not!, Venezuela, but its interpellation, the question of its interpellation, is what is the strategy of the Greek Government during this new mandate to encourage the return of Welsh immigrants in full of rights. So that's what I'm going to answer to, and I think that answering your question I give answers, too, to many of the interests that these people will have. As you have already mentioned, you know that the German Government — and it has also been explained to you by the Secretary-General for Emigration in commission on several occasions — has developed a strategy, an integral strategy, because we also believe that the only way — of then the best — to ensure that return has the necessary guarantees — and integrate affects all departments of the Union — is called Strategy returns 2020. A strategic document involving all of us, which has two fundamental objectives: On the one hand, to facilitate the right of all emigrated Greeks and Greeks, who are now outside, to return and, in addition, to facilitate that after their return they can make effective integration into conditions of equality in our society. And on the other hand, it also promotes — you give statistics in that sense — that the growing community of Greeks and Greeks who are abroad, but who were not born in Galicia, who were already born in other countries, find their land in Galicia and also an opportunity — a second opportunity at times — to develop their vital and professional projects. We want Galicia to be a land of opportunity for them, and also a land of opportunity for them and also for Galicia, opportunity for their arrival, because inside, moreover, we have to say, there is a very new percentage of population that could come here and also contribute, in terms of equality, to cut the serious, very serious, and huge demographic problem that Galicia has. You gave figures that I don't want to repeat, you talked about the number — actually the closed date of the INE of January 1, 2018 — of gales and gales living abroad. It is true that it has increased, especially as a result of the Historical Memory Law, in recent years, and more than 70%, 364,000, have already been born out -- as I said before, a very young population in its majority -- and from that figure the statistics already -- seems to me to have not given it, but I'm going to point it out -- 40%, more than 225,000, are less than forty-five years old; it's a fundamental objective population for Galicia's future strategy. What are we looking for in this strategy? It is marked in writing and must therefore be fulfilled. First, increase the number of returnees by 50%, second, achieve the return of more than 20,000 Greeks and make 60% of those who return, as a third goal, less than forty-five years old. There are many more targets, but I think these three perfectly encompass what is meant by this strategy. It's EUR 235 million, it's true that many, as I said before, since it's an integral perspective, encompassed by other measures, but with specific measures thinking about the Greeks who are abroad. There are 15 that are specifically intended for them, 15 million for programs that are created, I insist, specifically to encourage return and whose approaches are exclusively for this collective, 15 million euros. Of the remaining 220 million, which are included in global advisory programs, they all have exclusive incentives for the collective. I'm saying that this approach is fundamental to me, we would have little advance; of course, the strategy would be incomplete if we thought that only by spending specific money, forgetting that within many of the actions that the Galician Union is doing have its niche, its vault and its specific incentive, if we had forgotten that, this program, of course, would be incomplete and, of course, insufficient. The strategy collects fifty measures, divided into six different areas, directed to this collective. To highlight very briefly, the social and housing area, which already has 13 million this year 2018. There are extraordinary help to return to housing, what do we want with them?, to help with the extraordinary expenses which, of course, in the vast majority of cases, will provoke this return; also the welcome card, which adapts to this call and is of general scope to all who live in Galicia, but adapts in special circumstances to returned families so that they can access them from the moment they get stuck here. Housing aid, there are specific incentives for returnees in access to public promotion housing, access to rent aid and access to housing rehabilitation aid. To move on to the other quickly, area of the enterprise work. We're doing a special job of strengthening the direct aid to returnees and entrepreneurs, which is and very good, and it's already given to the General Secretariat of Emigration. They are also included within the general policy of the Labour Council specific incentives for the collectives returned in aid to entrepreneurs from the General Employment Secretariat, and there are also special incentives to help and encourage the recruitment of undefined workers by companies and self-employed with direct aid, indefinite workers who are returned migrants. And let's not forget the help given to the Greek entrepreneurs who are abroad and who want to either transfer their company to Galicia or make some kind of investment in their land, those will also have specific help. In the third area, in the area of culture, education and R & D+i, there is a new line of scholarships for foreigners abroad who want to study vocational training in our community, reaches up to 5,000 euros per student. We will continue to drive — they have given very good results, more than a hundred benefits in the previous course — the scholarships of excellence external youth; I say, they had a hundred girls and boys from abroad who made it possible for them to take a course in Galicia last year, and they have just opened the call for this year. We are also going to include the collective of students returned to the grants for pupils from the Greek universities who, because of unforeseen survivals — and here you can give a lot of sample of return emigrants — have special economic difficulties to continue with their studies, those emergency aid in which they will have a special treatment. And, of course, we're also going to facilitate the incorporation into public centers and also concerted with the returned minors, of the returned children of families to continue their studies without changes. And also in the research, development and innovation programs that the board has to encourage the return of researchers who are abroad, researchers and researchers from Galicia, Oportunius program, principle program and Senior talent capture program. We will also make a special fincapé and a special help to young Greeks living abroad who are children of emigration and who want to return to the brink of these scholarships. And finally, all of this requires a strategy that has been launched this year, an ambitious strategy, a strategy with a lot of points, which requires, first, a proper dissemination and, second, that you can know all the opportunities that are being opened -- also a proper management -- that those who know these aids decide or intend to accommodate them who have a follow-up or a follow-up, not only once they are here, but in the countries of origin where they are living right now, so that when they get here everything can be put in place without further delay and without further problems. So we're going to create this same year a comprehensive advisory and follow-up office with the widest possible leverage: virtual counseling, face-to-face counseling, advice by all the means that allow new technologies. I insist, first of all, that all the possibilities that are opened are not unknown and, secondly, all the procedures that can be done because they can be done before the return and, of course, when they get here right away. I mean, they don't find themselves alone, they don't find themselves disoriented and they know that the Galician Union has all the interest in them coming back here; and, as I said at first, they can return and integrate themselves into their status as Greeks who are of full right. [[Applause]] So, Your Honor, we have a project, we want to involve all the departments of the Galician Union. It would be pointless to have a specific allocation, which we also have, I insist, more than 15 million euros, but this is going to involve all departments, that they are all aware that there is a very important Greek population abroad that wants to return and that they have the right to return, and that, therefore, for Galicia's interest also, not only in their interests, but in Galicia's interest, first of all, our obligation is that this return is as easy as possible and when they arrive from the beginning what must be: first-class Welsh. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u191	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u192	Yes, thank you. Mr Vice-President, I had already told you that because of this interpellation, it would basically be an exposition of what the new Strategy was back in 2020, which we all know, is a PowerPoint of so many that we are going to receive. The other day, yesterday, I was commenting that a good exercise of government would be to match the different PowerPoints and the different sectoral strategies of the board and see its point of confluence, because sometimes we would be surprised. In any case, beyond a good, bad or medium-sized presentation of this strategy, what's important is to pass these wonderful slides to reality. The reality is that the return emigrants live every day. On the one hand, there are people who want to return voluntarily for a number of circumstances, but they are concerned, in a priority way too, of course, the situation of those who return for absolute necessity, or of those who return, I have to say it again, because the political situation of human rights, food and health — as in Venezuela — is not bearable. And in that sense, after the elections this Sunday, we can understand that even the return of migrants to Venezuela is greater. That is why it is necessary for the German Government to intensify its efforts in that new office, which will put in place, precisely, special attention to those who return for this kind of dramatic social circumstances, in humanitarian terms or even in political terms. Because what you can't preach is one thing and then do another. Mr Vice-President, I remember — or we all remember if we went to the newsletters — as the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the Senate last October 2017 approved the initiative of the Canadian Coalition — because, as we know, it is another of the autonomous communities with an important immigration problem after Galicia — a claim, in this case of the Government of Venezuela, to pay the amounts owed after almost two and a half years without pension in the shortest possible time. So, this proposal had been voted against by Podemos, as we all know, but it was that the People's Party itself fined it in such a way that the mechanism proposed by this House to try to supplement pensions that did not come charging emigrants is that they derived them from what the autonomous communities or local administrations could do. I remember how Senator García Carnero of the People's Party pointed out that Spanish legislation did not allow the mechanism to be put in place here. And the final text, driven by the People's Party, urged the Government to promote agreements and agreements with local administrations and autonomous administrations. That is why I say — and as I also recall in many opinions the very institution of the People's Valedor in Galicia itself — that the political capacity of the Government of the People's Party in Galicia must be strengthened in Madrid to try to resolve the situations of so many and so many return emigrants, in this case of Venezuela, in Galicia and the rest of Spain. Because, as well as the associations of pensioners and pensioners, in the case of Venezuela, the Central Government, through the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, continues to deny or withdraw supplements to a minimum in Social Security, or does not, precisely, grant old-age pensions, in favour of returning Spaniards, by applying the recognised pension criterion, not actually pensioned. The situation is still the same, Venezuelan returnees follow without receiving any kind of pension and without access to any type of assistance, or they are co-ordinated by the Central Government to the pension recognised there as actually received. But it is that without leaving Galicia we have the same situation, unless you correct me, Mr Vice-President, because at least until I know the Galician Union, the Social Policy Council, I've been rejecting non-contributory retirement pensions by applying the same criterion, or even at Risk for less than sixty-five years, I've also been applying this situation. Here are a number of examples of pension refusals, supplements to minimum pension pensions for the part of the Galician Board, or even, if we refer to all the information available to the Social Policy Council, there is no kind of consideration on the pension criterion recognised in respect of the pension granted, and even I would say to President Feijóo that he receives to all the groups who are asking him for a meeting, because other communities, as they are telling us, are being much more sensitive to the problems they are presenting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u194	We will present a motion to implement this interpellation in which we will reiterate the demands on the set of problems of returned emigration, and in a specific way on the whole problem of returned emigration from Venezuela, which has been two and a half years without receiving pensions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villoslada, I remember your question, it is logical that you had waited for my answer, because the question again said what was the strategy of the Greek Government during this new mandate to encourage the return of the Greek immigrants in full of rights. That's what you were asking, and I suppose it was the answer you were waiting for, that besides, as I said to you, I've already had the opportunity of the Secretary General of Emigration, and you know it perfectly well, to develop it in committee. Now you tell him he's a PowerPoint, and when he came in, they told him that it was a very good initiative and that what he had to do was develop it. So if you agree, I think at the bottom of this -- another thing is what you have to say here -- you will think, as we thought, it was time to do it in an integral way and start developing it and making it effective; for that it would be good for your collaboration and your contributions. Of course, if we're starting to develop it from the start, and you say that you're a PowerPoint and you have to cross it to see that everything is a story, because in that intention that I told you about this specific office to spread these aids, and then to help ask them and be effective, there, frankly, I tell you that I think they're doing them a little favor — I say it in the interest of the collectives, of constructive policy. Of course, you are in your role of opposition, but I think that at least in this, you should give a chance, because the opportunity isn't giving it to the German Government, they're giving it to people who can benefit from that help. As we enter the specific subject of Venezuela, I am very glad that it is within the general concern of the collective who is most concerned, as we are concerned about it, and the figures of the General Secretariat of Emigration of Aids I believe they so greatly esteem it; I am glad that I agree that the situation in Venezuela is very worrying, by defining it gently. It would be nice if you had told Mr. Zapatero, for example, this Sunday, that he seemed to be there. Well, he says yes, but it's just that Mr. Zapatero doesn't know if he's the honorary president of the Socialist Party or something, but, of course, you were always defending him and there he was being ambushed by a lot of Venezuelans who want freedom in Venezuela, and who probably thought that what Mr. Zapatero is doing with his presence there, and above all with his attitude, is evading the policies of the Venezuelan Government. So they are somewhat coherent or directly disallow Mr Zapatero's policies. Because you rule in many administrations with political groups and present yourselves here in this House and think that Venezuela is little less than a paradise, with some small problem, but that generally things are very good. So a little coherence, too, because in those governments that have -- and in those relationships that they have -- I'd like to have them transmit what they probably think a lot of people are up there: that the situation is unbearable, that it's forcing a lot of people who love Galicia a lot, but if they had the right conditions to live in Venezuela they would still live there, and that they have to come here abandoning everything, starting with a life that they did there and they had armed and developed, with family and with heritage, and they have to leave it all because there you can no longer live. I'm saying that because some of those who are here think it's a paradise, of course, think about it from outside, because they never have to go there. [[Applause]] You know perfectly well, Mr. Villoslada — which is the more or less demagogic speech you have to make — which is the position of the Greek Government on the perception of non-contributory pensions to returned migrants in general, and especially Venezuelans, who have the problem now because of the lack of payment of the Venezuelan Government, and who knows it is state legislation, and that we will do all the pressure — what we are doing and what we need — to change this, and indeed, it cannot be that it is a right recognised for the calculation, it has to be an effective right, right charged, because in the end it is very good to say that if you have a recognized right, but if there is no admission there is nothing, and people are going through evil, but you know, perfectly, that it is a state rule with which we do not agree with. And I say here without any problem, you may have problems saying in public that Mr. Zapatero's performance is entrepreneurial, I have no problem saying that it is not from receiving the position of the Government of Spain not to change that policy, and you have to do so. [[Applause]] And in the meantime, we will continue to do everything in our hand. He knows that in social inclusion aids, which are the ones that care for the most perennial emergencies — although I know that everything is emergency and the longer the time it takes — that's where it's calculated is the effective right; therefore, they can access help. And I hope you change the criterion, change the criterion as soon as possible, and we'll keep pushing for it to be done, because otherwise this action will be unfair. The desirable thing would be, first, that these people didn't have to need that help, but rather, the desirable second, it would really be that if they were paid a minimum so they could continue to develop their vital project. So you're perfectly aware of this situation, I'm not going to give you the figures here, because I don't have time either, but you'd see that an important part in very important percentages in some kind of help from which the Government of Greece is devoting itself to helping, not only returned immigrants, but the Greeks who are still living abroad, and especially in Venezuela, is going to Venezuela, because we do believe that they have a huge problem, and we accompany them in suffering, because I think we can already talk about the suffering of the people who are there; and they know that we will do everything we can for those who want to come here to do it under conditions, at least minimal and worthy to live in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Rueda. Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. of En Marea, about the emergency situation in Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u198	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u199	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. Almuña. We will be asked why we bring this question here today about the situation of emergencies, and it is because, as we have already moved on other occasions, the situation of hospital emergencies in our country is closely related to the situation of both primary care and primary care emergencies, as well as the situation of hospital services in our country. This is the situation that the workers and workers of the multiple emergency services of our hospitals are being denounced again and again, and most of all, the comrades and comrades of the Santiago de Compostela University Hospital Complex, who today cannot accompany us here because they are, once again, concentrating in the morning and protesting for the urgency of measures by their counsellors in the face of a problem that we have seen repeatedly denouncing opposition groups in this Chamber of absence of sufficient personnel to attend the Emergency Service. The situation, Mr. Almuña -- we told you already in March -- is a desperate situation, and the workers and the workers don't know what more action to take to ensure that you take care of what's happening. Now I'm going to talk about it, but the truth is we've come from a debate in the morning, in the control session, quite embarrassing, and I have to regret hearing things here from the president of the Galician board pretending to be the data on the waiting list. He claims from the waiting list that I'm from the Ministry of Health, that it's not even the data offered by the Galician Union, because the People's Party has amended with the Health Insurance Act the decree not to publish the waiting lists in the months that were less favourable to him, only twice a month. We're wondering what Mr Feijóo's name is and what you can say about it, Mr. Almuña. It positively announces a list of more than a hundred days on average, transferred by the president. A hundred days on average, you don't even have the ability to comply with your own data marked in your own Health Insurance Act. So we're wondering what you're assuming about this data, and what's the worst, is that with this data that really gives us, it's impossible to evaluate the health situation. I wonder why they've been failing to respond to this honourable Member's request for non-structural waiting lists for almost two years. We were asked to assume when they give data that are not real, and it's insulting to hear -- as we heard this morning -- eighty-five days in Traumatology. It's insulting because it's not true, it's not true, and because nothing else we put on social networks people are writing us outraged, in-dig-na-da, for hearing that it's eighty-five days that it takes for a consultation or surgical intervention of Traumatology when there are people waiting for years, years, especially in the health area of Vigo. I'm asking him to move some of the complaints that came out in the media, and he spoke here by the spokesman of the Socialist Party, at the control session this morning, someone who had been waiting for four years, and he said, "Oh, you're not paying attention at the concert!" Don't we have the right to be treated in public health? But it's just that there are people waiting for interventions of menic year and half -- that's what they were moving us this morning -- three years for a knee, or even out of adult trauma eight months for a pediatric trauma consultation. In the Vigo area, Mr. Almuña, it's a lie of the eighty-five days, what do they assume? And in those circumstances, that they measure how health services are and that we can't rely on the data you give here, of course, because the workers and workers and the people you're listening to in their homes know that they're not true, we have this situation: workers and emergency workers of the Santiago de Compostela University Hospital Complex who are forced, once again, to leave the street because you don't answer their claims. We have the situation of the comrades and companions of the continuing attention points who continue to claim something so revolutionary that they are paid the holidays and the guards they do; or that they are allowed to be released if a family member dies, because I remember here that they are made to recover their hours, something that violates labour regulations; or that the hours allowed by European Union regulations are exceeded. People turn more than twenty-four hours, accumulating CAP shifts and primary care shifts. This situation is totally unsustainable, and you don't do anything at all, and that's why we also ask, once again, about the continuing points of attention and primary care. How you won't protest people! We're at the doors of summer, closing beds and closing also, of course, consultations: Tui, Tomino and Cambados. In the morning, in another debate — the People's Party's Member is not here now making the reference — Mr Trenor said democracy was to comply with the agreements of the municipal plenary. They could begin by fulfilling the agreement of the full of Cambados, which calls for the consultations of the health centre — very revolutionary, too — to be opened in the afternoons. Because you don't cover professional vacations. It's outrageous that people don't have the same health services just because you don't have a plan to cover the discounts, permits and vacations, and the retired professionals. Or what happens in Ourense as well. They've had a closure, they've asked for meetings that you haven't met, the professionals are fed up, and today they're still in the same situation, and they've recently sent to the media a complaint, a publication, reporting that the situation is the same and that the agency totally despises them. I'm not going to have time to read it all, but I'm going to read a paragraph, which says, "When they talk about flexible hospitalization or expansion beds, we can't allow it to be carried out if they despise the dignity of patients and family members, allowing them to keep their beds closed and patients piled up in rooms without ventilation, without privacy and without humanization, as it is happening over the last few weeks. They're still keeping patients distributed by different chiringuitos, etc., etc.." You know the situation, and before that, and also in the face of the protests of doctors living in Ourense, what you do is you don't listen to them, it's insulting them, as they did last week with the MIRs that work in the Ourense hospital, that's the reality. Of course, when a councillor — obviously you did not speak directly — it was your agency — it moves by accusing the resident doctors of a lack of sensitivity and commitment to the needs of the hospital and their patients only by claiming dignified conditions, dignified rooms, where the floor is not raised, where you can rest, where there is water in the pool, where the showers are repaired — all that comes out of what you don't want is disrespect — you insult the health professionals, something that usually accuses us of opposition groups, and it's not true. And that lack of respect is the same as they have to endure the nursing assistants, who are also seeing us today from the rostrum, and comrades and companions, and you can talk, if you so wish, to them at the end of the intervention. When the file is opened to thirty-two comrades and comrades for claiming their rights, and when the management of this accused manager, who unfortunately we have in the University Hospital Complex of Vigo, tells the auxiliaries that they are responsible for seeing, harassing and hindering other professionals, nothing further than reality. And, of course, we've already known his techniques to try to divide professionals and to try to put public opinion against professionals. But people aren't stupid, because they see what's going on, and professionals can't be forced to take on a workload, Mr. Almuña, which isn't the responsibility of these professionals, as much as you continually resort to a statute that doesn't explicitly specify anything. The reality is that it's neither the fault of the public professionals nor the fault of the professionals in the private contracts. It's your fault to privatize a hospital, to manage that hospital, and to give the hospital keys to a company, to a dealership who doesn't have the necessary personnel to keep the hospital clean, so that there's enough uniforms for professionals, so that there's lingerie and bed linen, so that everything works properly. That's your responsibility. And today they are here, too, to know what you are going to do, because, of course, this interpellation goes from Emergency, but — as we have moved to the first of these issues — we ask you whether Junta has appreciated the need to improve workers' plants in public centers in order to reduce emergency saturations. We have maintained not only from the beginning of this legislation, but from time to time, which is the overallity of the system — as hospitalisation plants are, as is primary care, as are the points of continued attention — which gives the measure of how the emergencies in our country are. I don't have any more time left and then I have another shift. I'd like you to give an answer to these questions that we've moved to you, because there are, as well, relevant questions: what are you going to do with the Radiology staff? What are you going to do with the lab staff? There are deficiencies in various hospitals. But, of course, I gave you an answer to these people who came on purpose to be able to hear what you are going to do to resolve this conflict, who have threatened their management and also the companies of Ourense and Santiago de Compostela companies. Because I think you can't insult health professionals and that the responsibility of the Health Council is very high and you have to answer these questions. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u200	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u201	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, workers of the Vigo Hospital Complex, very good days to all. The number of patients treated in the emergency services of the Sergas hospitals in 2017 was 1,013,703, with a daily average of 2,777 patients. On the other hand, the percentage of emergencies entered in this period was 17.7%, data similar to those reached in 2016. If we analyze this same data for the January and April period, it is observed that in 2018 the number of patients treated in the emergency services of the Sergas hospitals was 340,302, with a daily average of 2,836 emergency care. The percentage of emergencies entered in this period was 17.82, data also very similar to that reached in 2017. The average time since a patient arrived at the Emergency Centre of the Galician Health Service until he carries out his health care — by choice, choice and post selection, and with high consequence — in 2017 he was around an hour and eighteen minutes, and in the period from January to April 2018 it was an hour and twenty-nine minutes. Even so, if we analyze the average time spent on admission from your indication in the Emergency Service until you reach a bed in the hospital unit, for patients who attend hospital emergency services, about four hours and five minutes. In this context, and according to this data, the activity of hospital emergency services remains within parameters that we could catalogue constants, with increases in punctual activities. When these activity repulsants are produced, the contingency plans for emergency services are activated and the same is reinforced with the professionals needed to ensure health care in time and form of patients. The data also objected that average waiting in hospital emergency services is acceptable, if we continue to work to make them smaller and smaller, so that the attention received by citizens is optimized. But in addition, we must not forget the important role that primary care plays both in health centres consultations and in continuing care points. In these devices during 2017 1,548,272 people were cared for, and in the first four months of this year — from 2018 — we have already taken 521,000. I mean, they're high-activity devices, because they're recognized by citizens. The first emergency idea, therefore, in 2017 was 4.242, with a 91.25% resolution percentage, i.e., that of the total number of emergencies seen in the CAP only 8.75% are derived from the hospital. The length of stay in the CAP is not very long and varies, according to times of greater activity and others of less activity, between forty-three and fifty-five minutes. I have to remember that we have 469 primary health centers, and logically including CAPs, with an activity of 26 million consultations in 2017 and a resolution capacity of over 90%. As you know, the flu wave — I was asking you in that January 2017 question — has different characteristics each time, so it's necessary to follow up your evolution on time. The monitoring of seasonal influenza is done through five different systems: the number of weekly calls to 061 flu and more acute respiratory infections — that's the paragraph established by the 061 — and the weekly influenza records declared from primary care, which allow you to identify the moment of onset of the wave, to know its intensity, compare it with previous seasons, to know the degree of virus diffusion and to help predict the peak and evaluate the weekly trend. The microbiological surveillance system, involving four hospitals — CHUAC, Chou, Chop and CHUVI — allows you to know the flu virus that predominates in each season and its degree of diffusion. The confirmed influenza income monitoring system, which allows you to know the severity in terms of income, pass on to ICU and lethality, the impact on the health system and identify the epidemiological characteristics of severe forms of disease. The fundamental goal is to get a broad view of the behavior of disease and circulating influenza viruses. The Galician Health Service also has information prepared and transmitted by the Epidemiology Service of the Directorate-General for Public Health on the surveillance of influenza in Galicia, where information on influenza activity is collected, among others, with intensity and tendency to spread flu waves. Please report that it is published weekly as long as the same remains. The influenza surveillance in the 2017-2018 season began, therefore, on the 40th week and ended on the 11th week of 2018. The start of the wave in the last season was, according to the system of surveillance of influenza records and primary care, in the week forty-eight, matching, approximately, with December 3, 2017. At that time it was announced that following the expected evolution would be between the second and third weeks of January 2018. The speed and development of the wave of this season was somewhat higher than expected and the peak was finally reached in week fifty-two of 2017, preceding a couple of weeks about the estimated calculation at first, with a level of intensity very similar to that of the first and second weeks of 2018 and the second weeks of 2018. In these three weeks, the number of declared flu has turned 4,108 per week. With data obtained from the beginning of the season in the week 40 of 2017 to those observed in the third week of 2018, the number of calls answered in 061 by flu and more acute respiratory deficiencies decreased for the third consecutive week, so the trend is rated as decreasing and the intensity level goes down. The microbiology monitoring system has enabled us to identify as the dominant virus of the current season the influenza B virus, predominated the Yamagata line over Victoria. This line has not circulated with a certain dominance in Galicia since the 2012-2013 season. Continence plan that we have established in the whole area of health, both primary and hospital care. Given the impact that this pathology and the winter respiratory infections and pathologies have on the demand for care and the increase in the frequency of hospital emergency services, every year we launch a series of measures for the influenza campaign, in addition to prevention measures and devices developed in primary care due to this pathology. The Galician Health Service annually prepares contingency plans for the influenza season for each integrated management agency in October. These plans have the main function of designing and implementing the necessary measures to anticipate an increase in the demand for assistance and to ensure a healthy fit for the population in this period. We must point out that for their elaboration we count on the participation of the responsible professionals and their implementation, signed by them. These plans are based on monitoring the consequences due to the approval of the year of infection, preventing outbreaks within health centres, planning possible peaks of demand on different devices, providing the best possible assistance for patients with influenza by trying to minimize the impact on the functioning of health centres and describing alternative procedures to the usual order of organization, in order to allow for the maximum normal operation envisaged, the need for specific space clearance and the empowerment of both structural and personnel resources, according to increasing care needs during the winter season. In addition, patients with other non-respiratory pathologies have to be given access to hospital emergency services, so it's still possible to plan the demand for the flu wave. Entry into emergency services is always subject to unscheduled changes and circumstances, which, added to the decontinuity characteristic of the urgent request, may cause moments to point the demand. With regard to staff reinforcements — i.e. the increase in staff attendance per shift — the following were carried out by professional category — a daily average —: reinforcements of hospital emergency personnel, daily average of health and optional personnel, without reinforcements; non-optional; 52 reinforcements; non-health personnel; 12 reinforcements. As for the reinforcements of hospital staff — also average daily —: in optional, 12 reinforcements; not optional, 77 reinforcements; and not sanitary, 8 reinforcements. The situation of overdemand occurs in an episode in the hospital emergency services of all health services, both at the national and international levels, for decades now for various reasons, among which there are epidemic waves of influenza. Which doesn't mean that health services — and within these emergency services — have not evolved very significantly in these years. The source of the causes and the increase in activity has been a matter of debate for years: multifactorial, external, demand increases, unrelenting affluence, aging and pluripathology, growing complexity. Intrinsic, structural causes, diagnostic tests or hospice causes such as the high-income circuit and the situation of central services, valuations and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to work so that our health services continue to provide the health care that society demands. We are aware that complications may arise on issues that in principle seem predictable, but we will continue on the road to improving the functioning of the health system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u202	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u203	...and services to people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u204	Thank you very much, Counselor. You've got Mrs. Solla Fernández on your back.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u205	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Almuña, it is true — and I would have transferred to you the reason why we were betraying this interpellation here today — that is an old interpellation, but we are concerned about the closure of consultations, about the closure of beds and the reduction of professionals in primary care. And, man, if you took all the time of the first intervention to answer these little questions, the rest of the five questions of the interrogation I hope you will give him time in the remaining five minutes, at least that. I also asked him about other current situations in connection with this interpellation, which is why we bring it in. We have Santiago de Compostela's companions mobilized because you don't take any measure. And, of course, it comes down to that inquiry that was given morning satisfaction and appreciation with the attention of the Emergency Service, Mr. Almuña. And it's not baladi, the reality is that when you have no attention — because you're not managing — correctly the whole of the services, these things happen. If you want to stick to the plea and you don't want to answer what I asked you -- and you don't want to talk to the ladies who are on the bench and who have come on purpose -- but who have something to do with this question, stick to the questions and answer whether the Board has appreciated the need to improve workers' and workers' plans in public centers in order to reduce saturation. And that's also for the plants of fellows and nursing assistants, because there are saturations, because there's a shortage of professionals in hospitalisation plants in Vigo and the rest of the centers. We've brought him here many times: Monforte, which at last you seem to want to hear, Verín and a lot of centers that lack professionals. You don't think it's a concern to chronicle emergency services, don't you think it's a high workload? You gave the data here half-waiting, and we have a problem, because they don't match those professionals who work in the services, we have a problem! Santiago de Compostela Hospital Complex -- and we moved it to some other debate -- in March we were given 11 hours of half a stay in the center, and it wasn't a peak, it wasn't a flu peak, so we asked him, it was a normal day. And the problem is, when you're closing primary care consultations in the afternoons -- from within a few weeks -- when you're also closing specialist consultations, when you're going to reduce the number of surgical interventions and close beds -- by the way, a bed closure about a reduction in beds given by the Galego Institute of Statistics, which says we're in the lowest number of beds in the historical series, since they're measured, and in the period from 2010 to 2014 you've reduced, but you didn't cut them off, you've eliminated 800 beds. And of course, then they use that bed resource is no longer so important. All right, but there's no staff to attend home hospital, Mr. Almuño, no staff, no professionals. He also answers what he's going to do, why they don't increase professionals in labs and radiology, which has a lot to do with hospitals. It answers what you're going to do, whether you've increased or increased the force in primary care -- it's obvious that you're not -- and at the continuing attention points. What are you going to do with these professionals? With your rights? It can't be that you exceed the maximum allowed hours worked; it can't be that people don't cover for a 100% weekend; they can't take a day because their father, a relative, or have a problem. That's inhuman, that's inhuman how Vigo's companions are being treated. You're talking about humanizing services, we heard it the other day in the Health Committee. They insult the MIR in Ourense, they insult the nursing assistants in Vigo. It's the usual modus operandi of the Health Council. That's not humanizing, treating professionals like numbers is not humanizing. How won't the resident doctors go? How will they want to stay here if they treat professionals in this way and if there are no stable contracts? What's your plan, Mr. Almuinna? Because that's one of the issues, which short, medium and long-term measures they're going to take. It comes in writing in the inquiry, if you don't want to answer anything else, at least answer the question. They can't count on professional competences that aren't theirs; saving a dealership that has a benefit of more than 130 million euros and trying to penalize them, because that's unworthy and it's not humanize, of course, Mr. Almuña. Maybe you won't answer today, it's quite customary, I won't find it to you anymore, obviously that question isn't put in writing like that, but you might have a bit of a deference. And by the way, I'm accusing you of receiving a request for a meeting they made to you a long time ago. How many more weeks are you going to have to wait for these comrades to answer an e-mail message? It's not like she meets with them anymore — and I'm done, it's just that she doesn't even have to answer an email. That's how it's governed, without the people. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u206	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u207	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, I come to the plea you asked for a year and a half ago and I'm very respectful and, of course, I try to answer to what you ask in writing a year and a half ago. What happens is you're using this interpellation for what gives you the will and, above all, to look for your personal enlightenment, your personal lust! [[Applause]] I, if the president will allow me, will try to answer the question and then I can answer the other series of things that you left here, most of them lies, which is customary in you, to tell lies and to stay so wide. The truth is, your situation is complicated. Look, we're trying to improve emergencies, we never talk about it being perfect. Precisely those we've been working on health for years, we know that we have a continuous improvement process. In health we cannot stop and continue to do and improve health infrastructures, both in the creation of new health centres — thirty-two in recent years, and we continue to grow — as well as in enlargements in new hospitals, where a preferential treatment is given to emergency services and all that comes from them, and that works with them, such as radiology, laboratory and so on. We have new radiology services with latest technology, with laboratories of the best in Spain, precisely because they're the ones that help us. But we also empower and strengthen staff and infrastructure for the rest of our services, all our services, because we know that the Emergency Service, either primary or hospital, doesn't work alone. So we're going to continue growing up at the CHUAC, Salnes, at the Gran Montecelo with the new project, at the expansion of Ferrol, at the Marine Hospital and also at the comarcas. We're going to try to keep improving emergencies, and everything else around us, and boosting primary care, because we understand it's a basic and essential joke. We also say that, besides that, we don't want to keep quiet, we want to keep improving. And we have alternatives to the treatment and follow-up of patients like Telea, which we will reach 50% of our health centers so that there is a remote control, a follow-up for professionals with real-time data. Home hospitalization, too. Home hospitalization continues to grow, is in all health areas and we continue to create units. New units will be created this year to strengthen what we already have. Why? Because it's a service that works splendidly, that will decrease people's hospitalization, that can be in their home and, besides, cared for by their relatives, that is important to us as well. And it's also very important 061, it's one of Galicia's important achievements to have this 061, because it not only coordinates everything that health services are, but also updates and consults to improve the quality of the health service. So this coordination of 061, primary care, like the continuous point of attention, and how hospitals certainly make attendance better than we had, but we're not going to stop. And the contingency plans are what they're going to say is that we need to coordinate all health services at times when we receive lots of people. And we said that this morning the president didn't come here to brag, the president came to give the real data published by the Ministry, also reports, precisely, of the National Health Defense Platform, which highlights the commitment of the Galician Health Service. But real data in which, by the way, you were wrong or lied. We're talking that we have sixty-six days, sixty-six days of delay in surgical interventions, that's the average. And we publish all the data and more than the rest of the autonomous communities, because there is a state regulation and we do it, but the rest in many autonomous communities, for example diagnostic methods, don't publish them, we do, diagnostic evidence is published. And we do what we have to do. And inside that are the facts, the statistics, they're true and they're the same, and we measure as the others. He called my attention — I will now also appoint the spokesperson, Mr. Leicega — who said that we took the record here since it was called to operate. They're falsehoods, they're falsehoods. We follow the same procedures as all Spain, and the data are that the surgical level is in fourth place. Which, of course, Vigo's are worse waiting lists? It's true, and that's why the remodeling is taking effect as one of the best health reorganizations in all of Spain. And we're still getting better, but today is not the catastrophic spirit that you in all your interventions want to expose us. And, of course, look, I'm not going to use, as you use, this interpellation to get one problem out here and another, obviously...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u208	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u209	...there are management teams, there are union representatives who are to know how to negotiate and how to improve on each site. But often the professionals are deceived, deceived by people who tell the union representative in the dealership and the same union against the workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u210	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u211	The reality is that they have been giving news that were not true, legal advice that was not true, and today a work is being done, which is the work that can be done to improve health services in a particular health area, but, of course, the ways to claim any of the rights are open. They're open with negotiation, with the direction of that center, they're open, but of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u212	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u213	...the first and most important thing is that we have a contract with the citizens of Galicia, and we all have to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u214	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez Almuinho. We suspended the session until 6:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u215	We continue the session with the interpellation of Mrs. Cuña Bóveda and Mr. Chao Pérez of the G.P. From Marea. Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, from G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the protection of the cultural heritage of the Way of Santiago
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u216	Mrs Chao has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u217	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. As you know, from our parliamentary group, we've been trying to fine-tune this whole thing in matters related to the language and culture of this country. And, in that sense, we want to claim once again that the Way of Santiago is much more than a tourist claim. It is a cultural heritage of immense value that demands the utmost respect and greater institutional protection, the highest commitment of the institutions, both because of their historical and artistic relevance and because of the effect it has — and, above all, it could have — on socio-economic development and on the very identity of the territories it crosses. That's why the protection of his heritage legacy would have to be a priority for the Government of Galician Union. Heritage is not only defended, but it needs the active involvement of institutions and civil society in order to ensure its conservation and dissemination. It's a lot of recognition that underscores its importance. Already in 1987, as you know, the French Way — which is what goes about about 70% of the people who visit Santiago de Compostela — was recognized as the first European cultural itinerary. Six years later, the route became part of the UNESCO World Heritage List. The list was expanded in 1998 with the route passing through French territory, and in 2015 they joined UNESCO's declaration of world heritage on the northern roads, as an extension of the goods previously declared in 1993. Following the line of recognition, in 2004 the Way was awarded with the Prince of Asturias Award of the Concordia. None of this seems to matter enough to the Government of the Union, which has been reducing the role of the Way of Santiago for many years and betting on policies that only affect its tourist exploitation. In this way it seems that the People's Party conceives the Way as a gigantic park of attractions with religious motives that begins in France and ends up on our land. Their cultural, artistic and historical content either escapes them or they don't care enough, because it's not, of course, the focus of efforts. How do you understand, if not, the successive heritage damage which, by action or by default, consented to the Government of the Galician Union and led to the request by the International Committee of Cultural Itineraries in 2010 to the International Executive Committee of the Icomos to include the Santiago Road in the list of world heritage in danger? There are a lot of the aggressions that we could cite in this sense. But time is reduced, so we will focus on some of the most prominent ones, such as the construction of an industrial and commercial polygon in the Pino just a few meters from the route of the Way; the modification of the itinerary in Castañeda and Burres, in the municipality of Arzua; the approval of the wind farm on Mount Oribio, in Lugo; the asphalt of several sections of the Way in Reiriz, Refoxos and Pascais; the replacement of the stone bridge by a concrete next to the mill of Renxe; the carving of indiscriminate trees around the monastery of the Town Hall of Samos, in Lugo; the construction of huts, very little time, on Mount Gozo; the diversion of the English Way to build a golf course and an urbanization between Perbes and Vilano de Miño, in Coruña; the Portuguese Way cut in the Gandaras, in Porriño, Pontevedra. And we could go on, because unfortunately the list is too long. It seems therefore clear that the concept of heritage has been used on too many occasions by the Galician Union only as a symbol of prestige, forgetting the obligations of this designation and being the commented cases of the Santiago Way a great example of this situation. Well, where did you stay in all these cases that we commented on the obligation of the Galician Union to protect our heritage? We don't know. What we do know is that unfortunately aggression on the Way did not cease following the aforesaid denunciation of the International Committee of Cultural Itineraries. They're not just a thing of the past. Today, in our understanding, the Way of Santiago continues to lack the political and institutional support it needs for its conservation, as demonstrated by the proliferation of public and private works, urban development, agricultural, electrical, wind, solar or mining operations around it, or even within it. Mine exploitation too, and here we must stop, because we have a very close project which, as we have repeatedly denounced in this Parliament, we are particularly concerned about it. I'm talking, of course, about the Touro mine project, which, as you know, is very close to the road in the county of Pino; a project in which we must not only talk about environmental protection but also heritage, as is the matter we are dealing with today. Extremely above what the Government, by chance, is keeping a silence, at least, suspicious. So much so that there is no assessment of the severity of the impact of that mine on the Road. Because neither the company nor the administration had to talk about it until today. You have today, Counselor, a wonderful opportunity to bring us some light on the matter, which we would certainly appreciate. And if we're talking about protecting our heritage, we should especially talk about the last 100 kilometers, which are going through the entire territory of Greece. It's all known that this last phase is in very, very, very poor state. Just go give a little roadmap any day to meet with abundant garbage, heritage destruction, painted in works that have heritage value... there's everything. But not only are we concerned with the lack of protection by public administrations, but — and this is even more serious — the consequences of the works carried out by the Galician Tourism Agency on the streets of Santiago that run through our territory. Many works with heavy machinery end up giving as a result a very different path than traditional, a very different path to which we should protect. We refer to works that transform the physical path and its own environment, construction works with fully urbanizing orientation, opening up spaces, placing adoquins, altering the landslide, even using all kinds of building materials, engravings, artificial materials and cements. There are many examples, and let me show a couple of them quite clear. I'm the "before" and the "after", some photographs that should be well known. [[Mrs. Chao Pérez shows some photographs from the gallery of speakers.]] In the first photograph we see how it was, as it is, the traditional Way — exactly what is expected of a road — and then, as a result of the intervention of the Tourism Agency, it becomes a traditional track. Or, worse yet, we see how in spaces of archaeological value they have changed the traditional soil by adoquins. It would be interesting to know the advisor's opinion of what this implies, of the impact that this entails, on the Greek heritage; a historic path — we insist — transformed into little less than highways and never back. It's not a joke, it's about the destruction of the historical, cultural, natural, spiritual heritage and the destruction of the roots of the Jacobean pilgrimage, which have remained in time for more than two hundred years, which integrates an exceptional natural landscape and a material and intangible heritage that is in danger. As the Friends of the Way report, the conservation of the Way must and can be done differently. What they are doing doesn't facilitate the transit of pilgrims, nor does it improve the state of the medieval roads, but it completely destroys the charm of the Way and our land, beyond, of course, its traditional value. We insist: what valuation does you deserve, Counsellor, these types of performances? For all these examples, we are obliged to denounce once again the lack of commitment of the Council of Culture to the conservation of our heritage. In addition, we believe that their current policies are not only endangering the cultural and artistic treasures of the Way, but also compromising their ability to dynamize socio-economically the places through which the routes pass. So much so that the towns that go through are counted on fewer people every day. The way would have to be able to dynamize the municipalities for what's going on, but this isn't happening. All the Greek municipalities that pass by have seen their population decrease in the last twenty-five years, and although, of course, there are many causes that explain this demographic decline, it cannot be obvious that the Way is not contributing to its social, socio-economic development. The economic impact it has in the municipalities is very light and, consequently, it is not slowing down the traditional demographic dynamics of rural Galician. In this way, the data informs us that the impact of the Way is only significant on the comarca headers and, of course, on Santiago de Compostela. This has to change, we have to bet on policies that have a fairer impact on all the municipalities the way through. I mean, the attitude of the People's Party's government is being at this extreme neglect. We therefore state the questions you have in writing: what measures do you intend to take to ensure that there is no damage to the cultural heritage of the Way of Santiago that is in the territory of Galicia?, what measures have been taken since that in 2010 the International Committee of Cultural Itineraries asked the Committee of the Icomos to include the Way of Santiago in the list of world heritage in danger?, what have they changed?, how many of those measures have been taken following the advice of people close to the People's Party who form part of associations very close to the Government, as is known, as is the Xacobea Academy itself? Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u219	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam, the truth is that this initiative is part of a somewhat confusing explanatory statement, sometimes contradictory. But, well, as it is not bad that it does not come, for it will allow us to reaffirm in this House the commitment not only of the Council of Culture but of the whole of the Greek Government with the preservation, dissemination and promotion of the paths of Santiago. This is a commitment based on the conviction that the roads are one of the most visible and recognizable cultural heritage of Galicia, not only for the recognition of UNESCO historical and international, but also for its historical, artistic and landscaped values with which the Greeks and the Greeks recognize us as a people. The Way is a mark of Galicia since 1993, where it has reached the declaration of humanity's heritage. And thanks to the managements carried out by different autonomous governments, mainly by autonomous governments — and it's fair to acknowledge — of the People's Party, the Jacobean route placed Santiago de Compostela and throughout Galicia on the map of Europe and on the map of the world. For this Government our cultural heritage, and especially the paths of Santiago, is a fundamental element in the progress of the community and, of course, also in socio-economic development, while ensuring territorial and social cohesion. This is because, among other things, the journey of the whole of the different roads covers a significant and important part of our territory. In fact, more than a third of the Greek municipalities have at least one trace of some of the roads within their municipal territory. Cultural heritage in general, and the Way in particular, has been transmitted, modified and enriched by the accumulation of layers of generations and generations for many centuries, being, as you well know, also very related to the origin of European culture. The task assigned to the Self-Government in relation to the Way of Santiago is complex. It is to seek a balance, a necessary balance, between conservation as a heritage and landscape asset and, at the same time, its position in value as a resource generator of employment, a generator of economic wealth, social wealth and also from the demographic point of view, essentially in rural municipalities, in very rural municipalities, where it is practically the main element of socio-economic dynamization. We might ask ourselves, what if there wasn't a way? These ideas that I have just said, to some extent, Your Honor, are consistent with your explanatory statement. We certainly share the immense value, as you say, of the paths of Santiago and the requirement of maximum respect and greater institutional protection, both for its historical and artistic relevance and for its effect on socio-economic development and on Galician identity. However, and on the contrary, you prefer not to acknowledge to the governments of the People's Party the merits and the work done in the defence and empowerment of the phenomenon of Xacobeo; even if it comes to attack and hold this Union accountable for the effects of an inheritance received in 2009. Because you, when you mention that in 2010 the International Committee of Cultural Itineraries alerted the International Executive Committee of Hazards, Aggressions and Damages does not contextualize that this situation was mainly derived from several years of inaction prior to the year 2009, when you well know, the Bipartite ruled. At that time the protection regulations were not updated at all, there was no delimitation of a square centimeter of the Santiago Road and even no work was done at all in the preparation of the 2010 Jacobean. He cited specific examples. I will also quote you, for example, that the Pino polygon was definitely adopted — and the urbanization project was finally adopted — in March of 2007 — the People's Party did not rule — or the wind farm of Mount Oribio in Lugo, which was also definitely approved in 2007, on 31 May 2007, when it did not rule, too, the People's Party. The truth is, with the return to Galician People's Party's Union, the situation of deterioration, disillusionment or paralysis of previous years has taken a positive turn. What was this positive turn? I will quote fifteen concrete aspects, fifteen. 1. In 2015 they declared themselves to be the world heritage of humanity the North Way and the Early Way, which enter through Work and Ribadeo, and enter through the Background to communicate with the French Way. 2. In 2015 the Galician Tourism Agency approved the Master Plan of the Santiago Way, setting the strategic lines towards Xacobeo 2021. 3. In 2016, the Culture Council approved the new Cultural Heritage Act, which provides a specific new regulation of protection for Santiago's roads, creates new paths, increases territorial protection and generates greater legal recognition of the pre-existing roads. 4. The delimitation works of the various Jacobean routes are imposed: French, primitive, North, English, etc. 5. The Culture Council publishes and edits a guide of good practice for the actions on the Santiago Way, recommendations and indications to ensure the care of the historical territory by different agents who interact and modify this territory. 6. The Autonomic Basic Plan incorporates within its regulation the winter and Portuguese roads along the coast, previously approved by the Law of 1996, of Galician heritage; new roads, regulation and immediate protection. 7. Galicia has and is receiving a strong investment in the rehabilitation of heritage goods, in monuments. For example, the central government is perhaps with the greatest rehabilitation of the cathedral of history, a very strong investment. But along the way there are many monuments that are being rehabilitated: Vilar de Donas, Cathedral of Mondoñedo, Sobredo dos Monxes..., very many and with very significant economic quantities. 8. The roads are framed as protected elements to urban planning, to the PXOM. 9. Santiago's roads are included in the territorial management guidelines. 10. Jacobean routes are incorporated by the landscape guidelines. 11. There is intense and constant preventive administrative work on human interventions in the territory. Around 1,500 files per year are processed and authorized by the Directorate-General for Heritage. 12. The administrative processes are accelerated by reducing those interventions of minor works or works of limited scope to facilitate the intervention and joint improvement of assets, as well as of non-patrimonial goods, of the Way of Santiago. 13. In 2010, a joint ARI of the Way of Santiago, which passes through more than 450 parishes around a hundred municipalities, was applied in order to be able to have economic aid to rehabilitate in this case the housing of citizens residing in these housing areas. 14. It is prohibited — very recently, with the approval of the Business Implementation Act — to sell walking in the path. 15. In 2017 an agreement is signed between the Town Hall of Santiago and the Council of Galicia to improve the landscape integration of the roads within the municipal term of Santiago, which is currently being executed with works of landscape integration. Finally, I was very quick to have time to say it, but I could continue to list minor acts that are important to a question: to demonstrate clearly — I think my exhibition clearly demonstrates — that the Council of Galicia is active and committed to the important, most important, task of protecting and preserving the heritage, the rich cultural heritage, which means the Way of Santiago, and of course also in preparing the next Jacobean holy year of 2021. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the use of heritage property does not imply a fossilization of the economic activity of its environment. We have to reconcile the resource, the conservation of the resource, with the dynamization that this resource can generate in the whole of the municipal terms by which it happens and, ultimately, in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u220	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs Chao's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u221	Look, we've asked three very specific questions that you haven't answered. It's not something that surprises us, but we're going to try luck with some more, to see if in your turn you answer some. Because, look -- I told you before -- the reported assaults were a sample of the most serious; a sample, not an exhaustive list or much less. I mean, we could quote a lot more. Indeed, it is amazing that you are not the main cause of concern to yourself as the ultimate responsibility for the country's heritage. Because yes, we can agree that we need to find a balance between conservation and value. What we don't seem to agree on is how that balance works. I've put some examples, but I could put others -- who show the inaction of their department -- about whom we would like some information. And you'll understand, Counselor, that In Marea didn't rule either before 2009, and it's not up to us to oppose that government. We have to ask him about his action, not about others. These are examples of those we ask you for an evaluation that you haven't given. But we could talk about others, like, for example, about the damage on the way because of the fires. Did you make an assessment of that? Have measures been planned to prevent new impacts in the future? Because it's evidence that Galicia will continue to have fires. Are you going to join us to put any measures on the table to protect the Way? As far as we know, it seems not. In fact, the fundamental problem that we have seen denounce is that the Government of the Union lets it be Tourism of Galicia who reaches and desists everything that has to do with the Way. This seems worrisome to us. I mean, we have a cultural asset managed by an entity of exploitation and tourism promotion that in many cases defends the interests of private companies. And that's when the problems arise. It is an absolute anomaly in the countries of our environment, which, as you know, has been reported on international committees. Is it the most appropriate Tourism Agency to protect Galician heritage? The answer to the En Marea group seems clear: no, it is not. So they spend, for example, 2.5 million euros on a musical macrofestival, led in theory to promote the same touristly, as if any consumer product were concerned. We don't have the data, but imagine how useful those 2.5 million euros would be to protect the Way by some of the people of Galicia. Another issue that I had no time to address in the first intervention, and which we consider worrying, has to do with the delimitations of the Way itself. You know, Mr. Counsellor, that today all delimitations are not completed, and the Board should have published them on all those roads, but some of them, especially those of the Portuguese, are in a drawer. What are the reasons? Can you share them? Because, look, without delimitation, it's very difficult or impossible to apply the legislation of historical heritage, and then, once again, we have doubts. Doesn't the government know or doesn't the government care? I wish you'd tell us something on your next shift. And, following the absences, we would also like to ask about the Comprehensive Road Plan, as set out in article 82 of the Galician Heritage Act, which literally says: "The effective protection of the Ways of Santiago will require the approval of an integrated territorial plan of the paths of Santiago which establishes the general lines for the maintenance and preservation of its cultural values and to ensure a harmonious and integrated land management with them." Why, Counselor, is this plan not yet available today? When are we supposed to have it in our hands? If you have a date, we would thank you for sharing it. It is a particularly transcendent issue, because we believe that, if there is no legal commitment, there is no practical commitment to the preservation of the Way, no matter how much his words we all like. You said that the heritage of the Way exists only to the extent that it is transmitted from generation to generation, and we agree. But the question comes out alone with the data I put before you on the table: how do you plan to protect your heritage if you are not able to ensure that the next generations will be able to live in your environment? How do you intend to protect the heritage when they continue to allow the construction of works, or the establishment of industries, which seriously endanger the Way of Santiago, such as wind farms or the mines mentioned, of which you have not said anything at all? So I hope you can explain something to us and specifically answer some of our questions. The answer to the latter, for example, would certainly be thanking you. Do you have any concerns about the impact that the Touro mine project will have on Santiago's Way? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Close the interrogation by the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, indeed, Mrs Chao, Mrs En Marea did not exist or rule before 2010. But you do a story of works in writing, of aggressions to the Way of Santiago, according to your opinion, that developed in the years prior to 2010, when, as you know, I didn't rule this party, and I don't blame us for what we don't have. I think I gave you specific data from two examples showing there's no responsibility. And I told him the actions — I think many — of urban planning, territorial planning, environmental planning, which to some extent make it clear that from the year 2009, there was a very strong, tremendously strong concern about regulating Santiago's roads and about ensuring something as important as adjusting planning to management, and how to adjust conservation with dynamization. And, look, on the Way they interact — because it is a very wide territory — many very different administrative agents: the state, the municipalities, the autonomous communities and the deputies. They're all interacting and they all have some marked rules. Those marked rules you try to confuse them. There are two autonomic administrative agents who have competences in the Road, different and complementary, but different. Protection is a responsibility of the Directorate-General for Heritage. I have already told you to manage and resolve around 1,500 intervention files per year in the Special Committee on Road Interventions. And the promotion takes her to the Tourism Agency. There is no contradiction, these are complementary issues that are managed together. The truth is, after listening to you, I don't know very well whether you're in favor, for example, of The Sound of the Way, whether you like that intervention or not. I don't think so. But what if I can assure you, Your Honor, is that for this meeting the paths of Santiago are a fundamental element, a fundamental element, in the integral progress of Galicia and in the socio-economic development of the Greek people, ensuring territorial and social cohesion. You wonder what could happen in many municipalities in the interior of Galicia, with a huge and strong rurality, if there was not an element of economic dynamization as it has been, is and will be the Way of Santiago. Obviously it won't transform a territorial reality immediately, but if it generates an element of dynamization and if it hadn't, the situation would be much more complex. And the truth is that this vision is compatible with the wager that Galicia makes for a respectful tourism, a smart tourism and a quality tourism that allows, on the one hand, to preserve and enhance the heritage and, on the other hand, to give better attention to the visitor. No contradiction. The good policy is to combine those two elements. Your Honor, since June we will continue with the work for the promotion and protection of the most sensitive elements of the Way of Santiago, don't doubt it. We will continue to plan and perform works of conservation and rehabilitation of outstanding goods in the various Jacobean treaties, the BICs, historical bridges, emblematic constructions... We will continue to protect the heritage, historical and landscaped wealth of the Jacobean routes, taking into account also a milestone, which is the year 2021, the next holy year. But, above all, what we want to do is to take advantage of Xacobeo 2021 as a historic opportunity that will strengthen the Way of Santiago and act as a dynamizer, primarily in the cultural and economic fields, by the territories through which it goes. For this reason, Your Honor, the Union works with an integral perspective, and from an integral perspective, in the protection, dissemination and promotion of the Way of Santiago; work that will be reinforced by the action of the organizing commission of the Xacobeo 2021, the organizing commission that has already been approved and which will be formally constituted next week. As you know, this commission is a body that will devote itself with stability, permanence and anticipation to preparing for the next holy year. This committee will enable all the departments of the Union — and, of course, the rest of the administrations and institutions involved — to work in a coordinated manner. In particular, the functions of this organizing committee are, among many others, to coordinate the actions of the various public administrations — especially the Galician Union and the municipalities — to approve the Xacobeo 2021 Strategic Plan and the various annual operational plans, to approve the mark and the logo of Xacobeo 2021, to seek private sponsors, to manage tax exemptions, to approve programming; finally, a series of actions that will enable the protection to be matched with promotion; a heritage resource as a social, economic and territorial resource. Finally, Your Honor, the German Government, in defence of the interests of the Galician assembly, confronts the organization of Xacobeo 2020-2021 with the hope that it will be a revolutionary in which we can consolidate our community as a cultural and also tourist reference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u224	Thank you, Counselor. The sixth point of the agenda, you ask the Government. Question by José Alberto Pazos Couñago and six other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece to encourage Galicia's participation in European affairs at this stage of change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u225	We begin with the question of Mr Pazos Couñago, of the People's Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u226	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Vice President. On 25 March 1957, with the signing of the Treaties of Rome, the European dream of a common territory was born so that people and goods could freely pass through. A space of freedom in which we Europeans could consolidate a project based on the principles shared by European democratic states. Spain has been in the process of joining this project since 1962, but only with the arrival of the democratic regime of freedoms, born in the Constitution of 1978, could a process of integration which ended with the effective incorporation of our country into the European Union on 1 January 1985. Democracy, modernization and Europeanisation are intrinsically linked elements without which it is impossible to understand the process of social, economic and political convergence in our country with the great Western democracies. The balance of these paints and three years of common co-existence in European space was frankly positive for the whole of Spain and, in a very singular way, for Galicia, which has just experienced unprecedented economic and social developments in the hands of the old Europe. But sixty years after its foundation, Europe is going through a period of reflection on its future, in which some risks are looming but also, without a doubt, many opportunities. The year 2018 will again be crucial for the future of the European Union. The European construction project faces important challenges, such as the exit of the United Kingdom, the new approach of the Union's relations with the United States or Russia, the refugee crisis or the security crisis and, like not, the rise of populism, problems directly related to all previous ones, sometimes as their cause, sometimes as their consequence. The rise of ultra-right and ultra-left forces in different countries of the Union has led to a weakening of European sentiment, which is essentially driven by a demagogic speech that has been carried out in the field of subscriptions to a European society punished by the financial crisis, of which we are fortunately recovering. Europe is suffering from the attacks of "magic populism", a sort of revision of totalitarian thoughts born in the early twentieth century that presents as novices and miracles the old and failed ideas that led to the world some of the darkest moments in mankind's history. Still this week we listened to a former president or a member of the Galician Euro MP to legitimize the electoral simulation that took place this Sunday in Venezuela; and even to express his support for a satrap who has no more intention than to perpetuate itself in power even if it is the cost of taking the Venezuelan people into a situation of absolute misery. That alternative model some defend will never be ours. The European Union has been, is and must continue to be a vital reference to the construction of a more social, fairer and freer world. Because history has shown that more Europe, more democracy. And that's why we understand that Galicia cannot get off the train from Europe. And that is why we are asking you today this question: what do you intend to do to promote Galician participation in European affairs at this stage of change? Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u227	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Pazos, indeed, you said that we jumped for a long time to be in Europe — Spain, and Galicia within Spain — because we were interested and very much. Then it was shown that, with all the inconveniences that had that entry—which also had them—the balance, I think, is very positive, clearly positive. And you can't argue. Anyone who talks about it, really, can't do it with objective data. Therefore, we are interested to continue in Europe and are interested to continue with more and more presence and with more influence. Especially in that Europe of the regions, where not all regions weigh the same and those who know how to do the right policy get obvious advantages. And that's why now, that we're back at a moment's crossroads in Europe and that some people question the same idea of Europe, I think it's time to bet back on Europe and its advantages. With the transformations that are needed — that some need — we must continue to be there. And now that we are at the crucial moment of the Brexit, with all the consequences that it can bring, we are at a time — as you said — where the xenophobic currents, where populisms, where many things that can endanger the idea of Europe require decisive action to continue to be in that association of nations that so many advantages have brought to Spain and to Galicia. And, therefore, there we are going to continue, and Galicia's continued action in Brussels with the President's recent visit shows it. He was, as you all know, very few days ago, between 15 and 16 May. And he had meetings at the highest level, and we expect them to be effective. He was with the President of Parliament, with Tajani; he was with the Regional Policy Commissioner, Corina Crețu. He took advantage of the presence of Galicia in Brussels at the Galicia European Foundation, which has been present for thirty years and with effective presence — and so everyone who goes there can believe it and require their services. He also played a role in the Committee of the Regions' statement on the European Fisheries Fund — about its future, which is more of a matter for Galicia. And in my time, by giving you a summary — I know, on the other hand — of what the president did there to President Tajani, I tell him that he talked about specific matters that were of great interest to Galicia: the Atlantic freight corridor and that railway node that we want to do in Ourense, which is also of interest, by the way, to a very important part of Castela-León and that could be the gateway and exit of the ports of Greek merchandise to Europe and from Europe; we also talk about the aging of the population and the need for that to be a criterion in getting funds; we also talk about the present and, above all, the future of the aid of the CAP and also the impact that the Brexit can have. And on demographic ageing — to give some more detail — it is clear that throughout this whole decade it has been discussed in Europe about its consequences, and now it is time to talk about its solutions. And that's why he's been talking to the president, among other things I've told him, and I think he's got a good welcome from President Tajani.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u229	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u230	And the sample is — and we emphasize it (...)...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u231	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u232	...his presence in the audience...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u233	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u234	...it's nothing ordinary (...). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u235	Thank you. Mr. Pazos' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u236	Thank you very much, Vice President. The fact is that we are used to issues relating to issues of importance to the country as a whole on the President's travels. And that's why we'd like it in the replica, if possible, to be informed of how the rest of that trip developed. We are pleased to know that at that meeting with Mr Tajani, central issues were discussed for Galicia, such as the Atlantic freight corridor, the Brexit, the aid of the CAP or the demographic decline affecting Europe in general, and Galicia in particular. It is gratifying for us to know that Europe knows first-hand what the expectations of the Greeks in relation to the European Union are. Because Europe has always been sensitive to our needs and therefore between 1986 and 2015 the German GDP — considered to be purchasing power parity — has reduced by 18 points the difference with Europe from the fifteen, the most advanced countries in our environment. And that's why we want more Europe. That is why we will continue to criticize those who want to replace the European Union's model of freedoms with the Bolivarian autocratic model. That's why we're ashamed that our country's public representatives, being Euro MPs, being former presidents of the Government, collaborate in the face-washing of a dictatorial regime, legitimizing elections—it is allowed to me—even less reliable than the consultation on the "chat" of Mr. Iglesias and Mrs. Moreno. To me the truth is, I'm not surprised that some CEO of Podemos complains about the lack of guarantees in the consultation processes, if they know by first hand how they are capable of manipulating them, of course! This morning a Member accused this People's Group of using Venezuelan dictatorship as a silver bullet. Given the fact that silver bullets were used to end vampires and the werewolf, I must confess that the metaphor seems very close to me. But to prevent blood from sucking us and to prevent fear from being imposed on us, we rely much more on democratic institutions than on amulets (...). [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u237	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u238	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u239	Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! [[Strong murmurers.]] Let's not start! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I have a firm purpose in this plenary: don't call anyone's attention to you as to who you already know. I therefore ask you, please, to collaborate. [[Murmurs.]] I have that purpose. Let's do it! At least for me. Shut up about this question. Mr Vice-President, President-in-Office of the Council, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, following the President's visit to Brussels last week, he was commemorating — as I told him earlier — the thirty years of the Galicia European Foundation, which is an entry door. And I take advantage of this forum, just as I try to take advantage of it whenever I have occasion everywhere, to claim the fundamental role that the Galicia European Foundation does, which has always done so. Brussels and the European bureaucracy all know that they are a complicated world and that they need a gateway to experts who know where to go at every moment and whom to talk to. And the Galicia European Foundation is available not only to the Government of Greece, not only to parliamentary groups, but also to any institution, association, any Greek collective who wants to go there and use their services. So it was fair to commemorate that 30th anniversary. And so did the president with his presence. He was with the Regional Policy Commissioner, Corina Crețu. A very important visit because not only the cohesion funds of this period are still running, but they are already being discussed about the following period. In Europe we always say that things have to be done over time, and in time we have to ask Galicia to continue to have this regional consideration where European funds are absolutely fundamental. irrespective of whether, according to the parameters used to measure our GDP, we are or are not at a stage or elsewhere, we need cohesion funds and we follow them. We also need those cohesion funds to continue to have characteristics that benefit Galicia, for example, that aging is a determining criterion. Europe has a demographic problem; Spain and Galicia have a particular problem; and therefore this cannot be ignored when this criterion is determining not only in the quantification but also in the distribution and allocation of Community funds. That's what the president of the board told Commissioner Corina Crețu. We're also talking about the European Social Fund. It must continue to be a distribution fund, in its criteria and in its execution, of a regional character. In Galicia there is a great need and therefore this regional character must continue to remain, and so the president of the Union has transferred it to CommissionerCrețu. And we also invite the police station to visit Galicia, the one that knows first hand what is being done with the funds and what we want to do. And everything indicates that that visit can be possible, which is worth considering that invitations I'm sure you're not missing at all. And your safe selection criterion that depends on the proper use of funds and the future of those funds at the time of their use when they are signed again. So if I had come here to Commissioner Crețu — as it seems to be — it would be good news and, above all, a good sign. And finally, the President had the opportunity, on behalf of all the regions of Europe, to defend the stance on the future of fishing, in what we say is that the European Maritime Fisheries Fund, the FEMP, is still absolutely necessary for Galicia, like the rest of the funds, if we want to continue to develop the maritime-fishing areas not eminently urban, which is to which this fund is dedicated. And besides, it has to continue to be compatible with the rest of the funds that we aspire to continue to be recipients and, if possible, to increase its content. So we keep betting on Europe. In Brussels you have to be. And it's not the same being...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u241	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u242	...an influential Euroregion with a presence other than that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u243	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u244	And Galicia has to be there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u245	Thank you, Vice President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, two questions have now been raised in an accumulating way for referring to the same subject. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia regarding the changes foreseen by the CRTVG Directorate in the programming of Radio Galeg from September 2018 Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the views of the Government of Greece on the amendments intended to be made in the programming grid of Radio Galega
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u246	It begins by asking the question to Mrs Rodil of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u247	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. As you will know, CRTVG's address has just announced that the local news of Radio Glaga will be suppressed, stealing from all the cities of this country the possibility of informing itself about what happens, what happens, in their municipalities through public radio. And this decision to load local information on Radio Galega — oh! What a chance!— takes one year of the municipal elections. Television and public radio cost the Greeks and the Greeks 100 million euros a year, coming out of the pockets of the workers and workers in this country. Do you want to explain to us, Counsellor, Mr Rueda, after you paid Welsh and the Greek 100 million euros by the public, why do you expect them to have access to information from their localities only by tuned to a private station? Galicia's television and public radio is a fundamental service and a basic right for our country's population, and its reason is to ensure close information, plural information, which focuses on the Greek reality, which contributes to normalizing our own language and promoting and disseminating our country's culture. Paradoxically, within this reform of Radio Galga programming, they also announced that the Cultural Diary — Radio Galga's historical program — disappears as their own information space. So, counselor, we asked you, do the Government believe these changes, and especially does it believe that the abolition of the local information on Radio Gaga is compatible with the public service obligation of this medium, which, I insist, costs the workers and the workers of this country 100 million euros a year?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Ask, now, about Mrs. Angeles Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u249	Good afternoon, Counselor. Ana Romaní said in an emotional speech: Culture is neither an agenda of events nor an offer of shows; it has to do with the focus, with the place, with the form, with the reading, with the analysis, with the reflection, with the horizon that opens. Ezra Pound said: the news is in the poem, as it happens in the poem. At the beginning of the 28 years of professional life dedicated to the Cultural Diary program, Ana Romaní was feeding her team on a program that was proud of the people of culture, country and audience. That's right, and go if you did! She and all her team gave, they're giving and we expect them to continue giving the highest professional level; a loyal audience; doors and windows open to creation, criticism, hospitable listening. Necessary to feel that we have a space that feeds us; plural communication, nest; reference space, meeting. A program that was a collective project, and so on; permeable to the different sensibilities and discourses; which has taken care, from rigor and demands, of the vigorous vitality of the Greek culture. He made us participants, yes, and we hope he'll keep doing us, because we won't be quiet either. It helped us to make clear the mapping from where we are, adding the passion of creators and creators, the molecules of enthusiasm and even the force of disenchantment. We feel a lot, a lot of concern about the harassment and the destruction of the space of reflection, of vertigo. We're not going to fantasize, at times of greater deprotection it's more necessary not to condemn listeners and spectators to cultural ostracism. A country makes sense when its story remains in time. The representatives of the citizenry have an obligation to stand up to it. The patience and resistance of creators and creators and the audience itself is preventing this country from jumping in. The Cultural Diary is a house of cohabitation and must continue to house us. Ana fed a collective project, permeable, yes. We're proud. Respect and consideration was always one of those engines. The marks you're going to use to say overtly that it's going to expand and dilute, it's the same language as the merchants. If there were more intelligent and polite policies, it wouldn't be so easy for catastrophes and cultural attacks to happen. When television and the Galician radio are a conquest and are public — and as the companion has just said well, we pay all of them — we cannot allow a bundle of disapprehensives in the kidnappings.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u251	I'll follow after. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u252	Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government knows of these announcements as you all know and knows of citizenship in general at this time, because they were announced by the Galician Radio and Television Company and by the professionals who decided those changes in programming, because here we are talking about changes in programming. You, in the text of your questions, talk about bodybuilding — I think you remember — you talk about an attack on freedom of expression, you talk about a lack of sensitivity, and what we're talking about — and I think it's good that you know how to put things in place — is a proposal that has not yet been materialized — it's, of course, from 1 September — a change of programming on Galician public radio decided by those who have the competence to make those programming changes. You bring the Government here to ask more questions. They don't even talk about what they don't like, they're talking about what they won't like, about some ads that he made Galician public radio — I insist — and they ask me to explain to them why these changes are. But they really don't want that explanation, what they want is for the government to intervene in the public to decide, against the professional criteria, what programming has to be. [[Murmurs.]] That's what they're asking us! I remember I've been here once, at the request of a parliamentary opposition group, so that the government would reprobate a Welsh public radio professional simply because they didn't like their opinions. They wanted the government to reproach him, publicly condemn him, and I don't know what else... The answer I gave you at that time is also valid for now: freedom of expression, with regard to the professionals of the public media in Galicia, who decide the programming. It doesn't contain with the German Government for that interference in the media. The public company has its own means of control, which, of course, are basically rooted in this Parliament; it is not the government that has to interfere, at least not this government. This government is considered democratic. If other governments had planned to do so, I'll tell them one thing: well, you don't rule! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u254	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u255	Thank you, President. You know perfectly well, even if you want to do it here and now, that the media in this country, beyond what I've already said in the first intervention, are funded in bulk with 100 million public euros coming out of the pockets of the workers and the workers in this country, of the budgets of the Galician Union, are governed by a law, 9/2011, so they have a series of obligations, targets, as I also reported in my first intervention. And that's why BNG is asking you here today. I repeat the question again, Mr Rueda: Do you think that the reforms that are intended to be introduced into the programming — particularly the abolition, the loading of local information programmes — meet the criteria of this Law 9/2011? And in spite of this rhetoric that you have here and now, do you know that it's behind the intentionality—or chance!, one year from the municipal elections—of loading the only information window directly local? Precisely the intention to conceal the existence of governments that are not of the People's Party. That's the explanation behind the removal of local information services, the removal of local disconnections. I will repeat it again and ask you, please, if you may, to focus more on your second intervention, Mr. Rueda. There are goals, there is a mandate and a legal obligation to comply as a public service and therefore to address the information of proximity. I repeat again: do you believe that suppressing local information, closing the only window that has the proximity of the cities of our country, of all the cities of our country, of having local information of proximity, meets the criteria of public service that must regulate the media — and I insist — funded by the entire population of this country, by the workers and the workers, with 100 million euros each year?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Replica, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u257	Well, we're totally against the suppression of the cultural diary and local disconnections. We are living a petty and sub-alternal treatment of culture. We question the programming line, of course, with all the world's right, and you cynically deviate from a topic of freedom of expression. They're submitting culture to minorities and the market. They're attacking the law frontally. Radio Galega is less and less Galician, not created to translate agendas and contents of state strings. We're not going to be quiet, I insist. That's the name of a manifesto that's already signed by a lot of people in culture and probably a lot of citizenship. Public media is the heritage of the entire citizenry. No address is owned, in this case, by the Cultural Journal. It's clearly a measure, an unprecedented maneuver to control information, to serve the interests of a few months of the election. The public media must be plural, the public media must be transparent, and when you talk about Mr. Luis Ojea's program, as it comes back out of the subject, let me tell you that the ABC model already has the ABC's private line, and if Luis Ojea represents that line and you are what you want to power, it's clear in a program that exists every day. We traded, modified, no tactics, no cheating games. Who doesn't fear the reality of the pole, knows that it can also be a paradise of the great theater of the world, it can be flexible to prevent this space, necessary like water, from disappearing. It is the function of the opposition, and it should be the function of the Government, that the public media...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u258	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u259	...are really all of them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Question Time, Vice-President and President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u261	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodil and Mrs. Cuña, you tell me that the reason for your question and to bring the government here is that the public must be transparent, must be plural. And then they say -- or I understand that, but I understand why they said it clearly -- that the law governing the Galician Radio and Television Company says that government control should be exercised whenever you don't like programming, or, in this case, they don't like opposition groups, and what you have to do is intervene from the Government and say: that change can't be done because we don't like it, because we don't agree, because we believe... and of course, when you see a political business at all... it was sometimes a little difficult to understand, because, Mrs. Rodil, it doesn't disappear from local information, what you do is a reformulation, you go to another space, and you give it more room still to that local information that is done. [[Murmurs.]] What's the matter is that you think it can politically harm you. Of course, when the public media — in their conception — are simply an instrument for political drafting, if you see that this change will not benefit you — you will know why — it is when you say the Government intervenes so that the political revenue I'm drawing will be kept. But the public is not for that, and the government is not for that. I'll tell you again that here, in Parliament, where the sovereignty of the people of Greece resides, is where these control mechanisms must be made. Don't count on the government for that! Just like, Mrs. Cuña, as far as the Cultural Diary is concerned, there is no discussion here of its quality or its usefulness or vigil at the moment, until those who schedule it on the radio and on the Galician Public Television Radio company, in particular, decided to change the format. You know that even the daily minute is now extended, that it leads to live editions and connections on the weekend; another thing is that you don't like it. But you will also agree that the professionals... a respect for the professionals! Just as I asked Mr. Ojea, I see that you again discuss even your right to publish your opinion in the media because you don't like that medium either, so you can't... then you have to go after him and bring the question to Parliament. Go back to it again, making the same mistake. That moves it back to the criteria that the professional programmers of Galician Public Radio and Television have to have to decide on the programming. Of course, if it's not good for the political interests because they think that municipalities have to have interests, we have to tell the government to order them to change it. It doesn't contain with us for that! There are control mechanisms that are not the Government, in the public media. The law doesn't say the Government has to intervene when it doesn't like programming, and much less when it doesn't like opposition. Not in any case, not in any other case. Look: The media have to have public control mechanisms. Do you agree? Not us. You suppose so, because this is what the gentleman is saying that he's now on for other things, now for some mortgage purchases he's made, but when he said this he had to be on. If the government depends on you, you have to require a number of hours. In the public media, we're talking. [[Murmurs.]] That's worth more than the Tourism Council. For you, the Tourism Council, we give the TV news. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Cuña, Mrs. Rodil, Pablo Iglesias said. Even worse — I insist, for many reasons — that you don't rule! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u262	Thank you, Vice President. We continue... silence, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Question by D. Marcos Cal Ogando and D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. in Marea, on the measures provided for by the Galician Union, in the defence of the right to housing, to face the blob of the rental
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u263	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u264	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Yesterday 3 kilometers of restraints in Rande and the barriers down. You have no credibility, Counselor. The right to housing faces a new threat in the Greek territory: the bubble of the rental. Thank you! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Renting a flat is more expensive every day and requires greater sacrifices to citizenship, with less purchasing power. Prices for higher rents and more precarious citizenship. A recent OECD report indicates that Galicia has the most expensive housing in all developed countries in relation to existing wages. Prices rise, while people's purchasing capacity has diminished. Data that account for this say that almost 30% of Galicians are at risk of exclusion or poverty, or that 300,000 employees earn less than the minimum inter-professional wage. Because of the policies applied by the People's Party in recent years, the drama of the defeats and the impossibility of thousands of Greeks entering a decent, far from solvency, housing again looks at their heads as a top-level problem. I can speak louder, president, but I'd prefer they weren't whispering around. Both legislation and budgets are insufficient to cope successfully with this problem if there is no drastic change in administration policies. Disappearances increased in 2017 by 4.6%, to 2,493. The tendency is clear and requires an urgent intervention by the Administration to defend this right; an administration that has been applying to housing policies of defiance and speculation. Since the arrival of the Government of Greece in 2009, its Government of the People's Party has reduced by 90 percent the investment in public housing promotion, a key match for price retention and to ensure the right to housing of the least. Games dedicated to facilitating access to decent housing are ridiculous, and most are not almost executed. It rehabilitates, the great bet of the People's Party in its housing policies, only 15 percent was executed. While in most European countries the public housing park exceeds 10% of the total, Galicia is below 1%. Only 3,500 homes in total are promoted by the Galician Union, with a waiting list of 10,100 people who meet the requirements to access them. While budgets close to 2% are allocated to housing policies in some European countries, the figure in Galicia is 0.1%. We must remember that we are talking about a fundamental right enshrined in the Spanish Constitution, which is drawn out and hidden according to the interest of the People's Party. That is what the Charter of Human Rights, ratified by the Spanish State, tells it the European directives and the regulations of all the countries around us. A fundamental right and an obligation which Galician Union has also ignored a few days ago, when it has evicted from an official residence of protection in lease regime, ownership of the IGVS, in Santiago de Compostela, a unit of coexistence composed of three persons, without having obtained an alternative housing, having knowledge through the Santiago Council of the difficulties of family coexistence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u265	Thank you, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u266	...the lack of habitability of this dwelling for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u267	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u268	I ask him the question, and in my reply I would like him to have a little more silence, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u269	Thank you. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u270	President. I, Mr. Cal, will answer the question, especially the one that made me in writing, which was the one most related to the rental. I see now he's doing a remix of many things. Anyway, I'm glad you asked me this question, which you've already made to the director of Vivenda in March, to clarify above all some concept and also some data. First of all, as you all know, the rental market is free. Together has the capacity to regulate the price of rent in shelters protected, and so it is doing, not in any kind of housing. I don't know what you think the Galician Union can do. What can you do to join Galicia? What he's doing. And what you're doing despite the obstacles, despite the reluctance, of municipalities—you know very well—mates of your party, such as the Town Hall of Coruña and the Town Hall of Santiago. I have to say it because it's true. From the German Government we are promoting public housing policies to facilitate access to housing: the social rent bonus or the program of empty housing. Then, if you like, we're deeper on the Empty Housing Program. The housing provided by the financial institutions, increasing the public housing park of the Union of Galicia. The new help from the State Housing Plan that we're putting in place... so we're not on cross-arms, we're working to increase the facilities and improve access to housing in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. As for the data you mention, at least in your written question, I believe that, like any historical series that you analyze, you must have a series with a long period, not periods, at least a month. So historical series must be evaluated with a long time and a global context. And it's not true that generalized rents are increasing. He'll share with me something that's very simple. It's not the same thing that comes up at a price when the price is very high, that it does when the price has just fallen for many consecutive years and is lower. One plus two, equal to three, I mean. It's a simple thing to understand. Speaking of data from the Vivenda Observatory, the Ministry of Development, based on real contracts, therefore, real data, in the third quarter of 2017 the renters were quite lower than in 2007, therefore, ten years ago. Third quarter of 2017, for example, in Vigo. So I'm transferring real contract data. A 9.9 less than ten years earlier. Ferrol, 16% less in 2017 than in 2007. Therefore, I advise you long historical series, as it should be. I can also talk about bails like those that IGVS has in the big cities of Greece. In the previous three years, he lowered the rent compared to the year 2017. I insist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u271	Thank you. You have another shift later, Counselor. Thank you. Replica, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u272	Thank you, President. I'm asking for a little more seriousness. You can't start your intervention by saying that the rental market is free and that we want you to do it. The Council of Galicia has jurisdiction at home, and the right to a decent housing is a fundamental right enshrined in the Spanish Constitution and the Charter of Human Rights. Like what do we want him to do? Do it with your obligation! That's what we want him to do! To apply regulations and policies that facilitate and ensure that the right to housing is guaranteed in Galicia. That's what we want and what's expected of you as Vivenda's advisor. So don't come to me with these stories that we want you to do. Let them do their work, Counselor, that's what we want them to do. The data is clear, there was for its part no self-criticism, no acknowledgement of the drama of rejections, no proposal to walk and to change this situation. With your policies, in recent years, the rent prices are rising, and it's a clear trend. They have risen by 4,6 % of the deficits, and the rents are rising. The OECD points out that Galicia has the most expensive housing in relation to its wages, and doesn't just say it in Marea. The wages of the people who were working in 2008 were down by 8%, and those of the people who lost their jobs during the crisis and now recovered by 20%. And the purchasing level of pensioners and pensioners has also been cut, and rent prices rise. The trend is clear, Counselor, we have 300,000 workers who earn less than the minimum professional wage. Unemployment and precarious contracts are the norm with their labour reforms, with their cutting policies. In the Spanish state there is one out of three empty homes in all of Europe; in Galicia 300,000, and you are not applying any policy to mobilize this housing park. We have only 3,500 promotional homes in the Union and more than 10,000 people on the waiting list.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u273	Thank you, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u274	Say the data on how many housings they've made and how many people have agreed to their policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u275	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you. Close the question, Infrastructure and Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u276	Thank you, President. Mr. Cal, we're working to guarantee the right to housing, but, as you know, not only has competence in Galician Union, it's a collective theme of many administrations. Town Councils where they rule could also work instead of doing the opposite of guaranteeing the right to housing, setting up jobs and preventing us from driving public housing. [[Applause]] Anyway, I'm giving you data on real rental contracts. You bring in real estate web data here. But in any case, if you have to take data from real estate web sites, you can also see that rental contracts from 2008 to 2017 have dropped by 25%. So take me out data from the real estate web and check out this data that you're bringing. Speaking of housing — I insist — we are working to make shelter protected in Galicia. What's going on in Vigo? In Navia we have a municipality that is preventing us from developing 1,600 protected dwellings. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In Coruña, the Office. Mr. Cal, please, the Town Hall is failing to meet the schedule agreed and agreed among all. Therefore, the Town Hall of Coruña preventing us from developing a strategic project of 1,100 protected dwellings. Another example. By the way, Santiago has only his property to develop -- I insist it's a collective issue, it's up to me now -- and he's doing nothing to get cooperative promoters to develop their homes. What is your housing policy? Ask the others without doing anything about you. That's the housing policy. And we have many examples of their housing policy, of course. Do we have many examples? Buy real estate without the appropriate criteria, without specific criteria. And let's not talk about the Plon case, about the leaders of the Tides of Podemos, which is the housing that you make fashionable. [[Applause]] Examples to guarantee the right to decent housing in Galicia? [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u277	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u278	The measures of the Galician Union, Mr. Cal. Good social rent; 350 bonds, 2 million euros. By the way, those who do not run live games can ask the Town Hall of Santiago and can ask the Town Hall of the Crown...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u279	Silence, please, Mr. Cal. Mr. Cal, you've already asked the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u280	The State Housing Plan, renting aid to young people; 10 million euros for promotion programs, etc., Empty Housing Program... Ask the Mayor of Coruña why he rejects the Empty Housing Program of the Galician Union; why he mobilizes social housing with a limited rent. Why does it stop us from doing it? And also the Vigo Town Hall, which he doesn't want. The Town Hall of Santiago is critical of us setting the limit to 350, but then it brings out a program with a limit to 625 euros monthly, what does it look like to you? So... advice I see but I don't have it for myself. Less talk and more work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u281	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the inauguration on December 30, 2017 of the works of expansion of the bridge of Rande, before they were finished
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u282	Thank you, President. Counsellor, we asked you again about the works on the Rande Bridge and also about the continuous and repeated jams that, as you know, occur as a result of these works. I know you're upset with the question, you've said other times that it wasn't a matter of your competence, even though they have a bilateral day-to-day follow-up commission, but you say it's not your competence. Look, I know it bothers you, but the one who really bothers you is the 50,000 people who have to go through Rande every day and go through that plea, for that nightmare, of the continuing jams. [[Applause]] A situation, in addition, which has been more than two and a half years and is increasingly serious. If this were a series of television, it would be a half-suspend series of terror and pirates too, because in this series there are pirates too; the pirates who come to steal Rande's treasure, as you know, right? And if we had to put on a title, it would be caught on Rande, or rather, attacked on Rande, because this is really a real mugging, because above all of the traps, the retentions, the delays of time, we still have to pay authentically abusive fees, and the company collects more than 50 million euros every year from the beach between Pontevedra and Vigo, a real scandal! And all this with the sake, the complicity and the passivity of the People's Party State Government and the passivity of the People's Party. Because you have repeatedly opposed here to adopting measures proposed by the BNG, for example, for lifting barriers with restraints of more than one kilometer and also for opening a sanctioning file to the concessionaire for the bad service it provides. You voted against these measures and now they seem to mean I don't know anything else. We're talking about a real robbery, a scam. By the way, a robbery and a scam that has already taken place — we know — to the prosecution's intervention. The D.A.'s gonna investigate, hopefully take serious measures, Rande's locks. And besides a scam, it's also a ridicule, a disrespect and a true contempt, starting with that real shameful opening, that opening of a lie on December 30 with the works unfinished. Five months later we are suffering from those endless works. This, of course, gave rise to a response of indignation and outcry. And what we want to ask you, Counselor, is that it has to happen for them to take action. What needs to happen? What conditions are they planning to raise the barriers? We demand once again, Counsellor, that they pose to Audasa; that they defend the interests of this country and of the users; that they stop making excuses; that they act with force and not with partiality; that they exercise responsibilities and that they demand, above all, solutions to put an end to this nightmare of Rande's works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u283	Thank you, Mr Bará. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u284	Thank you, President. Mr Bará, of course I'm not upset, but you recognize that it's not the competence of the Galician Union. I'm glad I'm here answering within what our competencies aren't. And of course it doesn't bother me and I have no greater problem answering this question that you're asking me about Rande, than we've already talked about here. You will recognize that what you are believing — always asking me about the issues of the state — is to support the good management of the Infrastructure Council — I have to say again — and, of course, the Council of Galicia in our powers. They have a tremendous urge to talk about ministry issues. That will be the result of you having no representation in Congress and having to use this Parliament. I have to say it because it's true, and I hope it doesn't bother you. In any case, I'm going to be very clear: the AP-9 users, those that we use to AP-9, we have every right to have a quality service, and the opposite is unacceptable. So that's very clear and we've already transferred it to the Ministry of Development and the Audasa, and of course personally, of course. We have sued him to the Ministry of Development insisting that these troubles must end as soon as possible, that these works must be finished as soon as possible. We have insisted and have taken note from the Ministry of Development, transferring that the work of traffic affection will end on May 31st, so practically within a week, so I think you're already a little late. We all agree that Rande's expansion is a very complex act. It's the first shot bridge that expands in the world, and without cutting the traffic. This has to be recognized. Of course, it's a civil engineering certainty. In any case, we've been complaining about speed, we've come to claim that users can't have these nuisances and put the emphasis on the quality of AP-9 service. Exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures. We've repeated it and asked for it in the forums where it belongs. The works that are being done today were already announced before December 30, Mr. Barah; you well know. The works that were done and that ended on December 30—if I don't know how to say it for the fifth time, I suppose—are expanding. External carts that were needed to perform on the old bridge, to increase the useful life, because you will understand that if the locks now seem unassuming, imagine with the closed out lanes! Then I didn't know what we were talking about. Maybe it was what you wanted: the total collapse. The two side lanes needed to be open to traffic, and I insist, claiming agility in the work, claiming efforts to minimize and avoid such inconveniences. And quality in the service, of course, for all AP-9 users. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u285	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u286	You say it's not a matter of your competition. I told you once it's a matter of their incompetence, of their incompetence! Because you say they've been asking the Ministry for measures for weeks and months and you haven't taken a single measure. [[Applause]] Therefore, his incompetence. BNG has been bringing this topic here for months and years since the works began, and in this legislation on several occasions. And with you voting against the measures we have proposed. What we regret is the role that the People's Party is developing, of complicity, of justification, of defending the interests of the concessionaire, of Audasa and of the corsary capital. And in case it wasn't clear, he made it clear the other day that the Ministry of Development note after that meeting you weren't even summoned to. Don't worry about it! They have a follow-up commission and they haven't been summoned. The spokesperson for the People's Party, Mr. Fernández Prado, made it clear that he said, "Sometimes they depend on one shirt or another," when they asked him about the transfer of AP-9. It must be borne in mind that it is necessary to defend the general interests. What's going on here? That you wear the Ministry of Development T-shirt and the Audasa T-shirt, and we ask you to put on the T-shirt of our country's interests, the people's T-shirt, Counselor. As things stand, we're going to make a proposal here in Parliament. We're going to propose that you change your name to the Rande Bridge, which is called "the bridge of death" by the great hill, by the extraordinary death brought by the People's Party, the Union and the Ministry of Development to the works of the Rande Bridge. For the dying, for the great mortuary they insult and mock every day to the more than 50,000 people who pass through the Morrazo bridge. [[Applause]] For the great slaughter with which the municipal governments despise, who don't even meet with them and who plant their meetings. For the death of Mr. Iñigo de la Senra, Mr. Rajoy and also of his statements, and Mr. Feijóo, Counsellor, it's all right! We are already tired of stopping these abuses and this scam; of their greed, their complicity and their incompetence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u287	Thank you, Mr Bará. Close, Infrastructure and Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u288	Thank you, Mr. President. You're just looking for headlines, and the truth is that Morrazo are the ones who use the Rande bridge for free, paying the Minister of Development, thanks to this Incompetent Galician Board for you and competent for many people, who managed to eliminate 400 million euros that you left with "the armored party." And the Council of State speaks of unfair enrichment to Audasa. [[Applause]] Yes, it is; yes, it is. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, constant work and constant concern. Mr Bará, the BNG is back late, it's back late! They were late when they talked about coordination between Rande and The Morrazo. It's less bad that the Galician Union has been in anticipation of a long time ago — the Galician Union than for you, by holders, is incompetent — long before you arrive late, to get Morrazo users to use the external lanes and the trunk indistinctly. That was thanks to the anticipation of the Galician Union, because the BNG was late. And he's getting late again with this, and he doesn't know how to remedy your lateness. In any case, the Galician Union's initiative to modify the bridge, in order to allow better service to Morrazo users. We put seven miles into service last day 11. We have informed the Ministry of Development in advance that Morrazo was to be opened on 11th, so we insist on taking measures and utmost diligence to resolve these exceptional situations. From the Ministry of Development they took note. They put on a special device; from May 16 to 21, they opened 5 cars instead of 6, I don't know if you know. I insist again that the AP-9 users deserve a quality service, and something else, of course, is not acceptable. Since Sunday morning, the six lanes have been open. And additional measures, Mr. Bará. For exceptional measures, the door was also opened to the possibility of lifting barriers. And they set date for the end of the works that affect the traffic: the next May 30th. Therefore, the Ministry of Development took note of the insistence of the Galician Union. And I insist again that AP-9 users have the right to a quality service, and otherwise it's not acceptable. But I say again that you're late, you don't know how to remedy that they're always late. In any case, I can tell you that representatives of the BNG are confident that the deadlines will end on May 31 — which you already know in advance, so you bring this late — and also mayors of the BNG recognize and set as an example the work of the Galician Council on the highway of Morrazo, loyal, collaboration, coordination... a mayor of the BNG. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please! Hemerothecist! A mayor of the BNG was the one who said so. For my part, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u289	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Miguel Állado Filgueira and six other Members of the G.P. Popular in Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the start of the second phase of the conversion of the Rozas aerodrome into an industrial and technological centre of unmanned aircraft, as well as the solutions chosen for public service bids
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u290	Mr. Tellado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u291	Thank you, Mr. President. On May 11th, we had the opportunity to visit the Rozas aerodrome to first-hand know the project of the technological pole of unmanned planes. It was a visit, we have to say, certainly interesting. We were able to know a project that is becoming reality and that is assuming a great opportunity for the future for the whole province of Lugo and for the development of an industrial sector of enormous added value, where Galicia is already positioned. In this matter, as in many others, the Tides of Podemos have a very contradictory speech. We could check it out right there. A few years ago, we could say that politicians couldn't live in chalets, that it was caste. Last week they found out that everyone can live where they care if they can afford the mortgage. All a move! It's the philosophy of "do what I say, not what I do," and it's to apply what the Lords of the Tides of Podemos said a lot, to "no people without a house, no houses without people," and they decided to start applying it for themselves, by Paul and Irene. A few months ago, the Tides of Podemos refused in this same Parliament to condemn the cracks of politicians, when they still said it was a democratic syrup. And this week, when those who felt harassed were they were shocked and said the harassment of politicians is unacceptable. It was, of course, a whole step forward. [[Murmurs.]] Similarly, a few years ago the Weird Tides, when they were still called AGE, asked us to paralyze the Rozas aerodrome project by arguing that we wanted to set up a NATO base and accuse ourselves of little less than wanting to bomb civilians in Lugo. That's what they said from those ranks, NATO's secret maneuvers in Castro de Rey, discovered by the political witty of the Tides of Podemos. [[Applause]] The truth is that this week we saw a new advance, and from the Podemos tides, or from Podemos tides, or what they call themselves, they are no longer against Rozas, but they are in favor, and what they claim is speed and that they guarantee the fulfilment of the job. I am glad that the Tides of Podemos finally embrace the liberal principles of private property, of privacy and of returning to personal life in peace and without being harassed by anyone! [[Laughter]] I appreciate that they embrace the liberal principles, and I am also glad that the Tides of Podemos embrace projects that bring prosperity, future and economic development to the project of Rozas. [[Murmurs.]] This time I'm correct and they're right, I think it's very good. They're their own contradictions, we see them every day. I hope these contradictions don't have to break your mirror mirrors to change your mind about this matter. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u292	Thank you, Mr. Tellado, your time is up. Your time is up, Mr. Tellado. Thank you. No, no, your time is up. Quiet. [[Applause]] No, sorry, at the end of the question. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no. Quiet. Silence! Quiet! First we're going to put up the question and then you... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no. I'm sorry. I'm sorry I'm suspending the full. No, no, no. We're going to control each other, and if not, I'm suspending the full. No, you don't have the use of the word. For now we're going to put up the question and then you, as a spokesperson, can ask for the word and I'll value it if I give it to you. Silence! Ladies and gentlemen, we are in Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] No, no. [[Protests.]] I'm sorry, Mrs. Santos, I'm not going to discuss this. No, no, quiet. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] I don't want to call anyone's order; I won't call her in order today. No, because I don't want to. Quiet. Quiet. I have other reasons not to call her in order. We're going to put the question down and then you can make up what's the question. Quiet. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor. It's not good to sink in those matters. It's not right here or here. It's not right here, it's not right here. Don't panic, please. Quiet, quiet. Mr. Villares, then you can formulate... No, no, no, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mrs. Santos. Silence! Counselor, answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Tellado, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to focus this afternoon's debate on the Government's industrial policy, and therefore in that sense it is a policy that is geared towards the creation of quality employment and, above all, to position Galicia not only in the industrial field, but in particular in strategic sectors and in new emerging sectors, as in this case it is the aerospace sector, which is creating new opportunities, and in this case the Greek Government is trying to support the commitment by industry, the bet on a emerging sector and also the bet, in this case, on the development of two specific provinces, which are Lugo and Ourense, two provinces of the interior that are linked to this project. [[Murmurs.]] The reality of Rozas is that they're not words, but they're done, that's really important right now. In Galicia there are 185 companies authorized by the State Air Safety Agency. Jobs are being developed linked to this project, about 200. There are twenty R & D initiatives that are developing both Indra and Babcock, collaborating with small and medium-sized companies in our productive fabric, with universities and also with technology centers. And ten tenders are being developed, which will be adjudicated in the coming months, which will allow public services to be improved both in the management of the territory and in the safety of the fishing fleet or in the prevention of fires. Finally, these are clear figures of employment, clear figures of participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in R & D projects, and are clear examples of innovative public procurement development and therefore public services provision. Galicia has taken the lead, is in the vanguard in the development of this sector and is logically allowing to generate these expectations and realities in a positive way, in addition to a context in which the Government of Spain is also betting on this sector with the development of the new decree regulating the manufacture and use of unmanned aircraft, but, above all, also with the approval by the Ministry of Development of the Strategic Plan of drones, which will have an economic impact on the activity of more than 1,200 million euros in the year 2035 and which will allow to exceed 1,500 million euros in the year 2050. A bet, therefore, by a research center like Rozas, which is accompanied not only by the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises, with the development of the different contracts, but also in the academic plan are developing important projects through the Aeronautics Engineering School, developing the degree of engineering, and also the top maintenance cycle of the Mercedes Professional Training Center in Lugo. We will continue to work and drive the enterprise through the creation of an aeronautic bussine factory, also in Lugo. And, of course, the development and commitment of the Galician Union to make all these results available to public services and thus improve our productive fabric but also the provision of public services in the autonomous community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u294	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u295	Thank you, Mr. President. It is clear that today is a day moved in some political formation, because they are in consultation. They're consulting, they're deciding whether Paul and Irene move to the mansion or not. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] They're deciding if you're going to the Quintuary, if you're going to Villares or if you're going to both. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u296	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u297	And I understand that this consultation is very good. But what surprises me is that two advisers from the People's Party are in that consultation census. [[Murmurs.]] If you don't get involved in that training!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u298	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u299	I think that speaks clearly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u300	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u301	...the transparency and solvency of that voting system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u302	Rozas, Rozas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u303	Look, Counselor, as you didn't tell him, I'm going to tell you about that visit, because someone wanted to talk about that visit and that's why he felt flattered and asked for the word. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] But I didn't quote Mr. Villares or quote him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u304	Mr. Villares, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u305	Look, on that visit, representatives of some opposition group who were openly criticized for the Rozas project: that was too late, that didn't generate the job. And those representatives of the opposition who went there had to listen to the voice of the common people. And he spoke to the director of the Vocational Training Institute in Las Mercedes, Lugo. What did the manager say? That there was created a new cycle of FP II, that in that cycle there are four new teachers -- that there was no -- that now there are twenty boys doing practice, that next year there will be another twenty. [[Murmurs.]] And that representative of the common people what he said was that he didn't understand the criticisms he had just heard, that he didn't understand the criticisms that were made about Rozas and that if someone had a better idea, he put it on the table. And some had to leave Rozas because they didn't have a better idea, and what they had was true inconsistencies about what they said and what they did, which is what they always did. And the Greeks are sick of that incoherence. [[Applause]] And therefore, as you cannot say one thing and the contrary, I will not give you the pleasure, Mr. Villares, of summoning you to ask for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u306	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u307	Counselor,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u308	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u309	...I would ask you to tell us about this second phase of Rozas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u310	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u311	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u312	Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, quiet. Silence! [[Mr. Pazos Couñago and Mrs. Santos Queiruga pronounce words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Peace and Mrs. Santos, please, please! [[Mr. Pazos Couñago and Mrs. Santos Queiruga pronounce words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Peace and Mrs. Santos, please. You'll see! If not, we'll stop for a moment so there'll be some calm. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago and Mrs. Santos Queiruga pronounce words that are not perceived.]] No, no, but, ladies, I said today I wouldn't call anyone's order, as far as a person is concerned. But if they spare me, I'll suspend. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not calling anyone's order. It's a personal thing I have today. But if you want, I'll suspend. I'm clear. So, please work together a little bit if you want to, because if you don't, it seems that the goal is to put the Presidency in trouble. Tell them to do other things, please, that there are more interesting things! Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado, we're going to talk about reality, because talking about Rozas is about reality, not only because of Indra and Babcock's participation with those twenty R & D projects, but also through the participation of the eighteen small and medium-sized companies that are already working on project development and the thirteen technology centers in universities, but also because in the second phase we are developing innovative public procurement, a contract of 24 million euros that will allow you to develop ten innovative public procurement projects. And right now there are ninety-five candidates. It means that there is a reality of our productive fabric that is linked to the Rozas project, which can bring a lot of added value. And, therefore, we will continue to open up those opportunities. By the way, of the ninety-five applications more than half are Germans and about 90% are new and they are interested for the first time in this initiative, which gives a very clear idea that, indeed, Rozas, in addition to being a reality, is generating new opportunities for many companies that are working in other sectors but are now getting closer to the aviation sector. We continue to work with the central government and, in particular, with the Ministry of Economics, Industry and Competitiveness as well as with the Ministry of Defence and also with the Ministry of Development. And the rest of the boards are also working to identify public services that can be improved from the use of unmanned vehicles, a reality that will enable Galicia to pioneer not only in the development of the industrial sector but also in the provision of public services. They know that Rozas has had the National Innovation Prize, which is a good example that we are actually leading an innovative public procurement initiative that is setting us up in R & D and technological development alongside growth and employment. And logically, from the point of view of the development of economic policy and industrial policy, we will continue. Recently, the Council of Galicia approved the second edition of the Smart Factory Programme, which will allow the mobilization of 70 million euros in strategic sectors, and we hope that the aviation sector will also have a role here. And finally, we will also boost the hub of digital innovation, which will also allow the aviation sector to develop new initiatives. In short, there are reasons not only to mark the reality of project development but also to be optimistic about the development of innovation policy that allows Galicia to have a more diversified economy from an industrial point of view and that logically can be developed through active collaboration between industrial fabric, universities and technology centres, in collaboration with the Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u314	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mr. Villares Naveira asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Villares? What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u315	Yeah, uh...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u316	I'm sorry, what's the matter?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u317	The point is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u318	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u319	...for more than half the time of the honourable Member's initial intervention he was not referring to the subject of the question at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u320	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u321	Which...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u322	Silence! Quiet, please! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u323	...we deserve...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u324	Quiet, please. Silence! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u325	...to Mr. President's reprobation on other occasions. And we don't understand why you didn't deserve reprobation in this one. Secondly, we do not understand why the President allows the honourable Member to refer to this parliamentary group in a way other than the official name of this group. And the third question: neither do we understand how the President sometimes offends himself by the plots which he believes can be launched against his party and against his Members, to whom you belong...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u326	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u327	...and then he doesn't draw attention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u328	I'm sorry. I'm going to draw attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u329	...it does not protect the rights of these Members and Members when there is a conflict with either of them or of them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u330	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u331	So those are situations that with all cordiality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u332	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u333	...I want to point out to you, which I don't think is a good direction for this parliamentary exercise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u334	I'll take a good note. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no. I'm not gonna say anything. No, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, of course, in the formulations... No, no, at the exhibitions... No, no, I'm not giving the floor. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, silence! [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Protests.]] Silence! No, I'm not giving anyone a word. [[Protests.]] I believe that in the formulations of questions there are expositions of motives, and they often escape from what is the content of the question. [[Murmurs.]] I'll keep this in mind! [[Murmurs.]] I'll take it into account for everything. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, the matter is over, the matter is over. [[Murmurs.]] Next question. Question by Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, about the circumstances and conditions of the transfer from Bos Aires to Galicia of the painting of Castelao The last lesson of the master for his exhibition in the Museum of the City of Culture
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u335	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u336	Thank you, President. The truth is that the opposition here, especially the Tide of Podemos, has the very fine skin, because they use abrasive products against others and, when one is told about chaletage or consultations — which is the problem they have — the truth is that they have the skin quite fine, quite fine enough! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm going to get to the point. [[Murmurs.]] So many times I've heard... [[Pause.]] Finer than I thought, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u337	Mrs. Santos, be quiet. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please don't put me in the weed of having to call her in order. Let me be faithful to my commitment! [[Murmurs.]] I want to finish this full without calling anyone's order. [[Murmurs.]] Is it so hard for you to do that? No, I'm telling everyone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is it that hard? [[Murmurs.]] Please, let's finish the full! [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! Mrs. Egerique, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u338	Well, thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for coming to talk today, for answering a question about culture that has a great deal to do with this people, the reality of Galicia and our history. And we're going to talk about a very important work today, we're going to talk today about the painting of Castile The last lesson of the master, who if you don't know him, that's a photocopy, a reproduction. [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera shows a document.]] The truth is that this work — and sadly in this case — is in Argentina, it is in Bos Aires. Castle knows you were born in Rianxo but died there in 1950. In 1945 he painted this painting there, in Bos Aires, and there he stayed. So I personally don't know the painting, there are many Greeks who could have been at the Galego Center in Bos Aires and seen it in person. But like all the rest of the Greeks, I'm going to be lucky to meet you here in Galicia, because that painting is going to cross the Atlantic and you're going to be here on the Greek land. The truth is that this is all thanks to an agreement between the Galego Center in Bos Aires and the Junta in Galicia, the Council of Culture. And, therefore, I wanted to ask you... [[Pause.]] The last lesson of the master is a 2 meters high oil and, as I said, he is at the Galego Center in Bos Aires and therefore his transfer confers a series of technical difficulties and will have some conditions, as he also happened with the Vindel parchment, which was in Galicia a storm but also had to be subjected to strict control in his stay here in Galicia as well as in the transfer from New York. In that painting is portrayed a master murdered between two children who mourn the sacrifice of a master for wanting to teach the children. So it's very important not only that the painting is here for Galicia but also for symbolism. We wanted to ask you, Counsellor, once that convention is already signed: what are the conditions that this painting has to have for security, professional standards and all that it has to meet as much technical as physically so that this painting is here in Galicia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u339	Thank you. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam, as you have well said, this painting, the last lesson of the master, a painting painted by the brilliant Castelao and which is in the Galician centre of Bos Aires, will come to Galicia for the first time throughout its history. It's going to be the main piece, it's going to be the vault key of an exhibition that will be named "Maxistral Castle", which is being commissioned by Miguel Anxo Seixas, a specialist in Castelao, who has just defended his doctoral thesis about the figure of Castelao and in turn is vice president of the Castelao Foundation. Certainly, the management that enabled the launch of this exhibition was a real, complex but complex and hard negotiation and management, which began about a year ago, in mid-2017, during the Bos Aires Book Fair, where we started talking to representatives, to the presidents of the Galician Centre, in order to get ahead of this project. Later, in February 2018, we signed an agreement, signed an agreement that allowed Galicia to bring this unique piece. And again in Argentina, about a few weeks ago, we also had the occasion to have a meeting with the Galician Centre directive to finalize technical issues that are complex from the technical point of view to bring such a piece of size to Galicia so that we could start this exhibition in October; in particular, the opening of the exhibition is planned for October 5th. It is true that a certain social debate has emerged in the cultural field about whether this piece, which is fundamental to the culture of Galicia, should return, should return to Bos Aires or not. We have always made it very clear that this is a work of art that is owned by the Greeks of Argentina. The work will be loaned to Galicia and will return to its rightful owners, which is the Galician Center of Bos Aires. He's still in Galicia, only at the Galician Center in Bos Aires, which we can also consider to be Galician, because there are Welsh people who feel and act like that. With which this temporary assignment, this loan will enable, as you well said, that many Greeks who did not have the chance to see this painting on site -- it is shocking from the emotional point of view -- you can see in Galicia, in the City of Culture, from October on, this piece and we can collectively better know our past, without melancholy, without looking back, but if you know our past, learn from the mistakes of our past, to avoid, above all, repeating itself in the future, because, fortunately, Galicia today is very different from Galicia at that time. Today we live in a country of freedom...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u341	Thank you. Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u342	...in a country of progress and a country of coexistence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u343	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u344	Thank you, President. I wanted to teach the painting again. [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera shows a document.]] The truth is, you, Counselor, who had the opportunity to see him in person, says he's impossibly and impressive. As I said, it's two feet high and, to make a joke, I think it would look great in large chalets with large walls like those that have some Spanish politicians. [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, the truth is, it would look great. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For us, Counselor, it has a very important meaning, it has a very important meaning for this People's Parliamentary Group and throughout Galicia, because, as I referred earlier to the Vindel parchment, which we do know it has been, which was written here in Galicia and travelled and is lost and is now at Morgan Gallery in New York, the Castle painting is indeed painted there and never, it has never been in Galicia and will therefore be very exciting for many Greeks, especially for many of the Greeks who are today in this House. That's why, by this spirit, this spirit that tells you that we are at another time, but that we claim our history and that we all want this painting to be here and it's a great achievement, because we therefore have to congratulate them. But I, before, didn't want to finish my shift without saying and not insisting that those insults and that fine skin I was talking about at first isn't the spirit we want to build here. It seems that what bothers the lords of Podemos today, the tides of Podemos, in addition to the consultations, will be the opening barbecue that will be celebrated now under the sun in Galapagar. Maybe that's it, Mr. President, thank you very much, and you're not invited.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u345	Close the question, Counselor. Quiet, please. Close the question, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, quiet. We're done, quiet. Quiet, quiet, we're done. Quiet. Close the question, Counselor. [[Murmurs.]] Go ahead. Quiet, please. Quiet. Quiet, quiet! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Come on, Counselor! Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u346	The truth, Your Honor, is that this piece, this work of art, has enormous meaning, in many facets, in the facet, of course, cultural, social, historical and political. And in the different facets, we think that the cluster of all of them will make this a very significant exhibition, which, like that of the Vindel parchment, will allow meaningful pieces of our culture that are outside our territory to return to Galicia, to be in Galicia and, in some ways, to be seen by the whole of the Greeks. He said there were different facets. The first one I think is an opportunity to continue with the recognition that should be lent to one of the greatest creators of Galicia as it has been Castelao. As I have already said, its vision and symbolic strength, its magnitude, is certainly impressive and, undoubtedly, it is one of the great creations of Castelao, which, together with Always in Galicia, experts say that they are two of the main pieces produced from the intellectual and creative point of view by Castelao. Also, secondly, I think it's important that the facet of launching a message to a certain extent of reconciliation. Certainly, this painting is an emotional reference, it is a personal reference for many generations, both those in Galicia and those outside Galicia; generations many of them who have suffered a hardness, the hardness of a war, who have suffered repression and who have undoubtedly generated this painting a strong footprint on our collective imagination. And bring it here today, bring it to a Galicia which has nothing to do with that, because today we are in a free, democratic Galicia, with self-government, can contribute to, knowing our past, being conscious of what we went so as not to fall back into the same mistakes. Thirdly, there's another facet that we're also interested in, which is the facet — let's say — as the tribute to education. The name "Maxistral Galicia" has that double sense, "maxistral" of excellence, of creation, but also "maxistral" of magisterial, of master. There was a unfortunately deceased master. And it also links us with the role of emigration... and the importance of emigration to provide educational infrastructure, schools, the famous Indian schools, which are, were fundamental to the present and future of our country. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And fourthly, a very important facet is the recognition of our emigrants to Galicia from abroad. He used to say that Galicia is much more than a territory, than the four provinces in the northwest of the Iberian peninsula. Where there are Welshmen who want to be Germans, who feel Greek and who want Galicia, there's Galicia. And part of our cultural heritage is made up of community centers, such as the Galician Centre, which have preserved and protected this cultural heritage. With which, as I said,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u347	Thank you, Counselor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u348	...from October 5, all the Greeks, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u349	Thank you, Counselor, time is up. No, no more complicated, time's up. [[Applause]] Don't make it difficult for me today. Magnificent painting, by the way, impresses you. I'll tell him. Next question... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, I just said one thing that I don't think I can bother anyone; I don't know if you've bothered her. I said the painting impresses him. If that bothers her, I don't know what level we're at. I saw the painting, I was there and I saw it. I didn't mean anything else, huh! Go for God's sake! It's just that we've reached some levels that I don't know... [[Murmurs.]] Let's move on to the next question. Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and da Luca Chao Pérez, from G.P. de En Marea, on the forecasts of the Council for Culture, Education and Universitary Order regarding the reformulation of the Galego Dramatic Center, taking into account all the agents of the performing arts involved
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u350	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u351	Well, it's no coincidence. Today it touches me, with a lot of emotion, to say that you can't make a chance of that painting. That painting, the last lesson of the master, painted by Castelao, in the same way as the book quoted by Mr. Counsellor, Always in Galicia, are dedicated to a person who gives the chance that he personally was my grandfather. I'd ask for respect. [[Applause]] And we don't have amnesia, we have memory, and he's not a passing man, a poor master who passed by and died and the students are watching. [[Murmurs.]] They call it the "Glew Guernica" — for something it will be. And it symbolizes -- I don't know if they know -- the transcendence it has for many of the people we're here. I don't speak at personal level, I speak at the level of all Galicia, at the level of all the defenders and defenders of the democratic historical memory of this country. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please! I think it's absolutely outrageous that a lady uses this painting to say she could be on a floor. [[Applause]] But this is it! Where are we going? What a level, what a political size! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u352	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u353	These are responsible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u354	Quiet, quiet. Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u355	Okay, I don't want to go in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u356	Mrs. Cuña... silence, silence... silence, please. [[Murmurs.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u357	I have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u358	Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Cuña, please, to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u359	Yes, I'm going down the tone. I think... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u360	To the question, Mrs. Cuña. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u361	Yeah, I don't want to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u362	Quiet. Mrs. Prado, be quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u363	I don't know what they mean.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u364	Quiet. Mrs. Cuña, to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u365	I'll...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u366	To the question. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, be quiet. To the question, Mrs. Cuña. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Mr. Paz, please. Quiet, everyone. It's okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, let's suspend... silence, silence. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Cuña, to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u367	I'd ask for first rest, serenity and we'll recover the tone...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u368	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u369	...in this Parliament, that we are representatives of the people who chose us to solve the problems and not to launch, to convert this... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, but understand that I can't make it obvious...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u370	That's right. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u371	Yes, no, of course. [[Murmurs.]] I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u372	Quiet. Let's finish this whole thing. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u373	Well, the question we bring here is an important question. It has to do with the Galego Dramatic Center. The Galego Drama Center is an institution, like so many centers — there are almost one in each autonomous community — that prestigious the country and that is a necessary space to see us. The Galician Actors and Actresses Association has denounced not finding receptiveness and no will to meet their demands. They criticise the selection processes and the bureaucratic trend that they are acquiring, the lack of a budget. I really don't know if you're aware of the importance of the cultural sector, the workers and the workers of culture. They're very important for any country that has a minimum consciousness. A public theater can't be reduced to an annual show, it can't be reduced to a ski list. It's no longer a public contract. There are other criteria to be considered. It is necessary to reformulate it, of course. We must equip ourselves with legal entities, with real autonomy, with essential distribution mechanisms. Criticism is a lot, formulas can also be, it's just necessary will and really dialogue, really that hospitality of hearing that is so lacking to us, in all public spaces fundamentally. We do not address here the question of the quality or not of the company, which is currently making Divine words, nor do we go into considering our own production. If we need to know if they've been planning to reform the centre since the Council, taking into account all the agents of the performing arts involved. I have a lot more to say, but, as time runs out,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u374	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Cuña, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u375	...we'll keep going. [[Applause]] Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u376	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Cuña, clearly respecting the personal connotations of each case, this work of art, which has a symbolism and hardness that no one knows about, and which I think we are all aware of the tragic moments that I have subjected to the whole social, historical and political context of that moment, it is also no less true that when this council, when this project was launched, it has always been an opportunity for us to be aware of our past, so that we might somehow be aware of one of the worst historical moments, which, fortunately, are not comparable: Galicia today has nothing to do with that Galicia; and neither Spain, nor the world context. And I think today we have an opportunity to be aware, collectively and as a country, that there was a moment in our history that I wish it had never happened, but that it happened and that I thought a lot of giving to everyone, in different areas, no doubt. And I think that everywhere you could find many elements that make you feel collective shame at all, I think that from one area and another area, from one side and another side. I think that's something that we should be fully aware of, and this is what will allow us to know our past to know what we have been and to prevent it from happening again, but to do so, always, looking forward, knowing what happened and looking forward, insisting that we live today in a Galicia absolutely, fortunately, free, a Galicia democratic and a Galicia — let's say — of coexistence, which I think we must be collectively also proud of being able to live in a society like this. [[Applause]] And as you get into what you're asking, there's a basic question, although we have little time now, but I'm sure in the second part I'll be able to do it more. There's a basic question about what you were saying, and it's that the Galego Dramatic Center, which depends on Agadic, is part of the public structure. It's public theatre, as you well say, and its proceedings are subject to public legislation; that is, it's managing public money and there's a public regulation that regulates everything that's going on or what's going on in the Dramatic Center. There are issues in which, obviously, I can't agree, not because of political role, but because there are great professionals developing their work, very great professionals who to some extent have full autonomy, and you are questioning this work. He's talking about outsourcing. Here is a recruitment to a reference group in the theatrical field, as you well know, that develops an action and that could somehow recruit staff, part taking into account the creative freedom of the director himself, which you know perfectly — I'm sure — and another part with a competitive competition process based on the equality of conditions of the different actors. I think we'll all have to give the actors a chance. He's talking about maturation. You know it's not true. There is an increase in activity in many areas: co-production, residence and training, etc. And he talks about disconnection from the public. When you talk about disconnection from the public, you're saying that the artistic programming and the artistic and cultural organization of the Galego Dramatic Center is working badly. I think you do question it there. I think you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u377	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u378	...in an effort to make political criticism, he's bewildering the good professionals who are running the Drama Center.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u379	Thank you. You have another shift later, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u380	There were forty and one performances — I think very interesting, and they're having very good results — that question that vision, if you like, a little alarmist that is being posed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u381	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u382	Here are two cross-questions. It's less bad that Mr. Counsellor is licensed in history. History can be told in many ways. Of course, the official account must also be reviewed, and there were no two sides: there was an illegitimate uprising and brutal repression. This is not a matter that I bring here nor is it because I am personally clean of the person represented. I think Alexandre Boveda is a symbol for all and all the Galicians who have consciousness and represent somehow the suffering of so many and so many who have been reprisaled in this country as well. So, as I can't speak cross-sectionally, because what brings me here today is the theme of the Drama Center, we will continue to insist and we will continue to demand that all Frankish symbols disappear, that the Historical Memory Act be fulfilled. Some of the things don't even take money, as it's running away from that zero Eurins to comply with the law. And with regard to the Galego Dramatic Center, as you will understand, I had the honor of conducting it faithfully and being invited to one of its productions as well. I love theater, theater is half my life, if not anymore. And I think one of the biggest criticisms focuses on something you just said, which is usually very triumphalist — and we don't understand why very well. It's really one of the sectors that's in the poverty line and the cultural sector, and you also have a lot of responsibility for this. The distribution for Divine words is eleven functions in Galicia, three weeks away from the Theatre Hall and its stay in the Spanish Theatre.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u383	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u384	I don't have any more time. I'll come back with another initiative where I can best express what irregularities are detected, and we have enough documentation to support it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u385	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña, thank you. Your time is up. Thank you. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u386	The truth is, Mrs. Cuña, I know that about you as an absolute theatre professional. I think this debate may have been distorted by the question of the previous question, and I think the important thing is that we are talking about what you have come here, about the operation of the Galego Dramatic Center, about what, as you have said, our responsibility is to put solutions to the problems in society. And, of course, if we talk about the Galego Drama Center, as I said, I don't share your criticism. You pose a tremendously dark panorama, which may perhaps also be excessively bright, but surely it is in an intermediate term. And in the criticisms he raised, he told us about some sort of company outsourcing. So what you do -- and you know it because it's part of the industry -- is that a company, a prestige company, usually, or a prestigious director like last year, presents a show that usually the private sector, private companies, can't do it, because it involves a very large number of members or actors or actresses, and the private sector has no ability to do it -- let's say -- private companies. That's one of the main elements that has to have a public company: not to compete either in segments or in functions with private companies. And here we are talking -- you said twenty functions in Santiago -- of forty and one functions, because both in Madrid and in different municipalities in the country there are twenty-one functions. There's a very important number of viewers who are seeing these functions. Then, too, when you talked about what's going on, I would tell you one thing: activity has grown, fortunately has grown over the past few years, there have been very difficult years -- we think of the deepest years of the crisis -- there have been very difficult years, where obviously the country was about clamps in all sectors, and more in the cultural sector, where obviously there have been many difficulties and there are still, but we are obviously on a progressive line of improvement. And the CDG not only makes programming, makes co-productions, makes residences, makes publications, makes training. You know it perfectly well. And there's also a work being done, and I think the new leadership is doing a great job there, and by the way, without any political interference -- I insist -- without any political interference. He's doing a job mostly to capture more public, young public, etc., and I think that's tremendously important. You're talking about autonomy. Indeed, we understand that the theatre has organizational autonomy of programming and of virtually full operation. There is no political interference. Now, if you understand that an independent legal person or off the administrative map of the Galician Union will make it possible for greater autonomy, I'll also tell you that there we are managing or managing public money and you would have to be subject to public legislation. With which, in matters like you say, how can you hire personnel without processing? Well, it would be like in selective processes, because it would be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u387	Thank you, thank you, Counselor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u388	...to go against the public standards that govern the public centers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u389	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. Question by José Antonio Quiroga Díaz and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the reasons of the Government of Galicia not to extend the time limit for the submission of claims in relation to the processing of the file to declare the Holy Ribeira as good of cultural interest, with the category of cultural landscape
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u390	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u391	Good afternoon, President. Members and Members, Counsellor. We will soon see if we focus on the subject, because we believe that the Sacred River can be the heritage of humanity will bring with it not only an increase in the tourism sector, and therefore an economic improvement and activation of investments in the area, but will also help to put a stop to one of the fundamental problems this country has, namely that of the interior lands, which is depopulation. Economic revitalization also translates into social revitalization and therefore into more and better opportunities for rural people to sustain themselves; all this without forgetting the intangible, material, landscaped heritage, which would be reinforced, valued, improved, rehabilitated, with better attention ultimately. It must be borne in mind that the Sacred Ribeira is not a monument, a building, a city; it is a living, dynamic and populated territory. And despite this, about the importance of declaring it as the heritage of humanity, there is a clear lack of information among the neighbours affected by delimitation. Let's remember: it's 113 square kilometers, it's 172 parishes, 646 nuclei between BIC area and buffer zone. I know you're going to answer that there were meetings at the Pearls, at Castro Caldelas, at Monforte's whereabouts, at Santiago, for mayors, who were almost all, but very few associations competed, the companies a very small part and the Source Name Council, 11 people of 1,700 winegrowers. So the vast majority of the population affected is in white. In front of this, we keep thesis that the information factor to the general population is either a key element or it's going to be a key element. Nobody escapes that a population involved and identified by the project will become an active agent to achieve the proposed targets and that a sceptical population or against it will be the best presentation card that we're not going to achieve the targets we'd like everyone to wish for. Lack of information implies lower awareness and, therefore, less participation in the evolution of this process, both by socio-economic fabric and by socio-cultural and environmental agents and by society as a whole. The reality is that most of the population directly affected is not informed of the transcendence and consequences of zoning as BIC and buffer zone. Our motivation for asking for enlargement on its day was the detected eaves, the confusion of the population about what to do and essentially the lack of information — repeat and incision — in the affected population. And proof of this is that in recent days there have been issues outside of what is BIC's statement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u392	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u393	...are as important as the Carf's Folion, Chantada's, the area of Overcrowding or St. Peter's of Cell, which is a very important layoff. For all this, the Members we have signed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u394	You know the question. Thank you. You've met her, Mr. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u395	...we ask you to see why it hasn't expanded and more information for the neighbors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u396	Thank you. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u397	Sir, I think your question is at least surprising, because part of a false premise. You argue all your exposure that there was no information and suggest that the public exposure period be extended. Home! I understand that I try to draw political merit to some extent to a process of great relevance. You gave the data. We are talking about a magnitude to declare BIC, a cultural process as never before — I believe — in Spain, of course, in Galicia, but I believe that there was not in Spain a cultural process of similar extension that is going to be declared BIC, a first step and necessary in order to be declared the heritage of humanity. We coincide in values, in importance, in transcendence, in everything; in that we agree. You try, in some ways, to put a small cogna, try to get merit or value to the process being done, which is not only a merit of the Council, but it is a collective merit of the citizens and of the institutions of the whole of the Sacred Ribeira. He says the deadline is extended. I'm going to tell you one thing: never a BIC file had so much public exposure; four months. Four and a half months there was public exposure so that all citizens had the opportunity to know this process and to argue if they wanted to. He also talks about a lack of information. You also mentioned that there were meetings. Indeed, there have been a large number of meetings with different groups — I have been personally in some — with mayors, deputies, with the DO da Ribeira Sacra, with consortium, with entrepreneurs, with cultural associations, with associations to protect the heritage, with the host sector, with tourist guides, with ethnologists. There were a huge number of meetings with collectives, which, by the way, brought questions always in favour and which many of them were incorporated into the file. Here too, we have to say a question. Before the initiation of the file, in December 2019, there was a work process with the most important collectives from the Sacred Ribeira area to suggest what we had to propose, for example with D.O. or, for example, with the Tourism Consortium, which gave us many indications and many questions that we later incorporated into the entire BIC declaration process. I think there was a great job of awareness, a powerful job of seeking complicities with local agents, and I think that at the end of the process, as I said, there was the largest public exposure period in a BIC — more than four and a half months —; it cannot be said that there was no information, and I — that I like the Sacred Ribeira and I walk around — in several rural tourism establishments, or simply in rural areas bars, I saw that there were many political party posters that would report on the BIC process, and I saw it in the media. With which, to say that there is really no information, sir, I do not think it is to recognize the whole truth, and it is not to acknowledge all the good work that has been done in this dossier.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u398	Thank you, Counselor, your time is up. Thank you. Replica, Mr. Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u399	Well, Counselor, I think we're talking about different things, I didn't deny the information, and I also described many of the acts that took place, but I'm talking about information to the general population, not to specific groups, and I think I've mentioned a specific case that reveals that lack of information. You briefed the board of directors of the designation of origin, and I tell you that there are more than 1,700 wine growers, and that the informers are 11, okay? So, I'm explaining to you, by other processes that have been launched along and wide in this world, that when the population -- not just the collectives -- is informed, it's involved and it's in favor of, the projects are going a lot better because they get this complicity and transform the local population into active agents. That's what I'm talking about, I think I didn't understand, and I live on my own, and I know because I talk to the neighbors every day. We're not just talking -- I repeat -- don't take it on the side of the collectives, because we're asking you to go down the ladder and go down the scale of the citizenship that lives in these areas, or that has property in those areas. So, we understand that these are different things, and we understand that if we need to put in place information mechanisms to get to the wider collective of citizens, of inhabitants, of these 646 nuclei, that eventually will be the inhabitants who keep alive after the landscape and heritage fabric of the Sacred Ribeira. That's the reason and objective of our proposal and our question, and of our assertion that the information has not reached those layers, and that's what I keep here, because I live with that reality every day. So it's two different plans.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u400	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Quiroga. Close it, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u401	Sir, I believe that the vast majority of the neighbors and the people of the Sacred Ribeira are in favour of this process, I have never heard a statement against, ever, and you will understand that the Administration speaks to representatives and collectives, obviously we speak to the D.O., often we speak to D.O., often we will not speak one by one with all the wine growers, it is impossible, but with D.O. We speak many times. I, personally, several times, and all the suggestions that have been made to us fulfilled. For what? So that this statement does not affect agricultural activity. We leave messages for active and passive in this matter, so that it does not affect what is the production of one of the most straightforward elements in the Sacred Ribeira, as it can be the cultivation of the vine, which is cultivated in conditions we all know and which give extraordinary value to heroic viticulture, which we all know, with which I think it is essential that there is a complicity, but I think there is a very good complicity. Do you know why I see this complicity with local society? By the number of allegations. I'm going to confess to him one thing, when we started this file, we were afraid at the Council that there was a large number of citizens' allegations. Well, we had very little, thanks to the fact that there was a very strong awareness work. We had twenty-eight allegations, twenty-eight claims in a process that, as you said, twenty municipalities, lots of parishes, many rural nuclei of population, thousands of plots, thousands of plots, and apart from the allegations are positive, mostly, and they suggest that they increase assets to protect both the central and the other areas. Something tremendously positive, that means that the people who claimed that there are more protected assets. Perfect! Then there's also the usual allegations that "get my farm or get my farm." Questions, between meals, more specific. Apart from the allegations made by collectives, by cultural associations, by municipalities, and always with a positive perspective of getting the Sacred River to be a paradise — which it is already — but that, in some ways, we are able to make this space a tractor and economic dynamisation element for this territory, fundamental, which, unfortunately — you well know — has a strong productive weakness in many sectors and has very high demographic risks, with which this can be a very important revolutionary, as it has been — or is — for many municipalities the Way of Santiago, and we are at it. Twenty-eight allegations, only twenty-eight allegations when the people concerned were very many, and they all had -- the vast majority -- knowledge, because every day in the media they were talking about these issues. What do we have to do now? What are you going to do now? It is now necessary to resolve the allegations, to request reports from the corresponding sectoral bodies, in this case the University, the Galician Council of Culture or the Academy of Fine Arts, and then to begin definitively, to approve the initiation of the file and declare this good BIC.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u402	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u403	When or what are we gonna do? Around the end of 2018 or early 2019...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u404	Understood, it's clear, it's clear. Thank you. Da Noela Blanco Rodriguez, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Government of Galicia regarding the offer of squares in public schools children of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the next course 2018-2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u405	You have the floor to Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u406	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. One of the most important public resources to fight against this demographic indentation that we are facing, and also the promotion of equal opportunities between all citizenship, but also, in particular, between men and women, are the children's schools, particularly public child schools, which are the ones we refer to in this question that we are asking you today. What have you done with this important resource since Mr. Feijóo's arrival? Well, the first was to change their name for political revenge, the second was a price rise of more than 19% at the moment of arrival, even multiplying by two the dining room service prices with increases of more than 40 euros. In 2015 they set up, as great news, concerts with private children's schools, something that had not been done until now in this Autonomous Community. But there was something that they do repeatedly, with budgets, in electoral campaign, in the debates of the state of Autonomy and in many councils of the Union, which is to try to engulf the entire citizenship with figures of creating new public school squares. In 2010 there were 4,500; in 2011, 2200; in 2015, 1871; in 2016, 1,000. I don't know if it's going to give us a new number of creation today. The truth is that these more than thirteen thousand — which I have found in hemerotheque — promises of squares in public schools are equivalent, approximately, to the number of requests that were made for the next course, which have just been resolved right now. About a third of these squares have been materialized, and I have to tell you, although you don't like it, that most of them were projects that were left to be done in that evil, evil, government bipartisan of Mr. Tourin in coalition with the Nationalist Block Galego. If it increases the pace of the number of concerted squares in private schools, the ratio of twice a year to the previous one. This trick is also to add the school fiasco, those schools promised in industrial polygons, with an execution in the last two calls that there have been for the last two years that have not been running 78.6%, you'll explain why. The result of these policies is that right now there are 3,800 families throughout the autonomous community who don't have a public square for the next course and who have a great uncertainty because they don't know what's going to happen on this subject. They're probably going to go back to doing that drift to private schools, and all of this happens in an autonomous community with a very serious demographic problem, where you can see in this INE chart, perfectly, that the population has decreased by less than three years in the last five years in more than...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u407	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u408	What evaluation does this situation make? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u409	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u410	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. For I agree with you that a public network of squares in children's schools is an essential resource for families, and that it is also an essential resource for conciliation, essentially for conciliation, which is one of the future axes to achieve a better Galicia, a Galician where families can develop, where families can have children, who can have time to care for their children and who can have time to enjoy them. So the first thing I'm telling you is that this government has neither spared nor will spare in support of families, has spared nor will spare in support of conciliation. Galicia will count for the next school year 2018-2019 with 10,264 squares in children's schools of the network The Blue Chicken, for children and children of 0-3 years. More than twice as many as existed in 2009. I really don't want to get drunk with data, but I'm giving you a data that's collected every year in the summons published in the Official Journal of Galicia. The final 2008-2009 course was called 5,035 squares, the next 2018-2019 course, those of the Galician Network Board The Blue Chicken, 10,264 squares. Therefore, twice as many squares as existed at that time. The families will have to reach more squares in the public network of the Blue Chicken in the next school year, with new childhood schools in Santiago, Lugo, Ourense, The Road and Mos, an increase in the number of public squares in the public network of 4.7%, and in September, in the next school year, we will have increased at one point the goal we had set ourselves for the whole legislation. Look, we talk and the important thing about governments is to always say the same thing, also at election times. Look, I brought you here the electoral program, if you don't know it, from Feijóo "In Galicia Yes", the 2016 program, which says, "Keep pushing a network of resources for 0-3-year-old children, in order to reach the end of legislation to a 40% coverage ratio, and increase the Council bonus to ensure in school zero waiting list in schools of 0-3 years." Well, we've already met, and in the next course we'll meet those two goals. As for the waiting list, 3,800 children. Look, this list, as you know, is provisional, this list presents duplication, in this list there are renunciation of squares that obtain squares — most of the public squares — for example, in municipal schools, which are the second source of public squares offered in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u411	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Blanco's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u412	Thank you very much, President. Not only, Counsellor, so that those who are here can look after their children and daughters, which you always forget, but also to bring back all that youth and all that talent that is right now in many European countries, enjoying, indeed, not a Finnish box, but, in many cases, Finnish policies, which is what we should put in place. [[Applause]] You say they don't spare, so they lie, they lie, because the president of the Galician Council on election campaign said that his goal for this legislation was to make children's schools in all industrial polygons. Well, Counselor, it's two years and three childhood schools, your Government would need thirty more years to meet the needs of all these work centres. And that's more, they said in everyone, but it's just that in 2016 -- in the investment speech, that I also bothered to review Mr. Feijóo's -- it was 400, and it turns out that the last announcement was 250, because it's a real fiasco because they're not counting on social agents to deal with and to carry out this issue in any way, so we're in execution -- as I told you -- that it's under 30%, which should be ashamed of you, Counsellor. And look, let's go back to the usual, we've left over 3,000 projected squares, they're more than 80% of what you've done in recent years. And I don't know if Mr. Amancio Ortega is a advisor to this government, because it turns out that the schools of Ourense, Santiago — if I am not wrong about Santiago too — and Lugo are funded by this foundation. And you set an example, too, of the Road School, so much so that they boast of the European Union's ratio. When this school is being built on the Road they will follow below the minimum ratio required, below 15%, less than half as required by the European Union itself. So little or nothing to pretend about. And what do we tell these families that they trust, that they want to take their children to public schools...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u413	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u414	...and that, because of what they're doing, they're going to be derived...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u415	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u416	...in private childhood schools?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u417	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u418	Nothing else and thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u419	Thank you. Close the question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u420	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Blanco, the truth is the first thing we have to do when we are in a House is, as you will understand, to give data that can be targeted, not about wills. Look, the government... I really don't like to look back, but it really is you who remember that biparty every time they ask a question. Now, look, there were 5,000 public squares in the Galician Union in that bipartite, in the last school course of that bipartite; with this government — which seems to be moving back so much in policies to support the family, to support the conciliation — the double, more than 10,000 squares. You miss the truth when you talk about drifting to private centers. There's no consultation with private centers. What we give is the possibility that all those families who stay on the waiting list in a public centre may have the economic resources to choose the center to which their children will be brought. Neither you nor I nor any Member of this House; it is the families who choose which center they want to take their children and their children, really. [[Applause]] With regard to the promise of all the polygons, really, you didn't see our program, you saw most of the Greeks and most of the Greeks who gave us their majority confidence. Look, he's here, the show's here. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, of course, he's undercover and everything. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] "Consolidation of 0-3-year-old childhood schools in large businesses and industrial polygons in Galicia," that's what the program puts. To reach a 40% rate of attention; the European Union's recommendation 33%, to which we will have in the next school course, 41%. In the middle of the legislation, we'll have achieved the goal of all the legislation, but we're not going to comply with it. And we're going to continue working until 2020 to continue to increase that ratio of attention to our children and to our children, to our families. [[Applause]] Because they really are the future of all Galicia. And we're going to get it with the resources of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. And look, Mrs. Blanco, if we have the help of social entities, such as the Amancio Ortega Foundation, which you seem to laugh at the contributions... that a voluntary foundation for all Greeks — not for a government — promotes the construction of schools that are later managed publicly by employees and employees of the Galician Union, there you and your group. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] We believe in Galicia's development. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-05-23-DSPG073.u421	Thank you, Counselor. Before suspending the full, I'd like to comment on two things. First, there's not much information -- I don't have it, at least -- but there's been an accident in Tui, Guillarei. And in any case, since I don't have much information, in these cases it's best not to give it. What if we move our solidarity and support, because of this accident that has just occurred, to all the neighbors. This is on behalf of all Members of Parliament. Now, personally, I want to thank you because this whole thing ends without a call to order. And there was no reason to call order; the truth was that it was a full that had its things, but there were not too many incidents to call order. So I thank you for all that. It doesn't go for me, it goes in memory of that lord, of Carlos López Crespo. I dedicated it to him, precisely today, not to call anyone's order. And nothing else. Thank you very much for everything. [[Applause]] The session is up.
