ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u1	The sitting is opened with the single point, which is the debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, 3rd, Economic and Social Committee, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u2	The amendments of the parliamentary groups of the Nationalist Block Galego, Socialist and Parliamentary Group of En Marea remain for the plenary. The outline of the debate will be the presentation of the dictatorship, then the joint debate of the states of expenditure and the debate of the articulated and, subsequently, will be the votes. We therefore begin with the presentation of the Commission's dictation. The President of Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u3	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counselor. Presentation of the Opinion on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2019. The Bill was entered into Parliament's Register on October 19, 2018. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 19 October 2018, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of Parliament. The amendments to the whole were qualified on 12 November 2018. The parliamentary groups of En Marea, the Galician Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block made amendments to the overall return of general budgets and of the sections' budgets, as well as non-devolutional amendments that transferred credits between applications of different sections or altered the total content of income and expenditure states. All amendments were discarded at the plenary session on November 19, 2018. The partial amendments detailed below were qualified on 23 November 2018. People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia: amendments to the articulation, 3; amendments to the numerical states, 4; total, 7. Parliamentary Group of En Marea: amendments to the articulation, 52; amendments to the numerical states, 380; total, 432. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia: amendments to the articulation, 79; amendments to the numerical states, 546; total, 625. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego: amendments to the articulated, 35; amendments to the numerical states, 342; total, 377. This makes a set of amendments to the 169 articulation and amendments to the 1,272 numerical states, which means 1,441 amendments to the whole. Commission 3rd, Economy, Farm and Budgets, at its meeting on 26 November 2018, appointed the following speakers. Popular Parliamentary Group of Galicia: Don Pedro Puy Fraga, holder; Don Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira, alternate. Parliamentary Group of En Marea: Don José Manuel Lago Peñas, holder; Don Antón Sánchez García, alternate. Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia: Don Abel Losada Álvarez, holder; Ms Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, alternate. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego: donna Noa Presas Bergantiños, titular; donna Olaia Rodil Fernández, alternate. The session was held on 27 November 2018. The report ended with the recommendations made to it by the Commission, consisting of the adoption by most of the amendments made by the Popular Parliamentary Group. It also recommended the adoption of Amendments Nos 1, 9, 14 and 15 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group; a compromise amendment with paragraph 48 of this same parliamentary group; and a compromise amendment drawn up with Amendment No 42 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Point 5 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has been withdrawn for having a content consistent with Article 7(m) of Article 7. With regard to the remaining amendments, the Ponencia, for the most part, recommended that the Commission reject the proposals presented to the articulated by the parliamentary groups of En Marea, the Socialists of Galicia and the Nationalist Galego bloc. The amendments to the statement of expenditure submitted by these groups were pending for the Commission. The Commission, meeting on 7, 10 and 11 December 2018, adopted by majority the report issued by the European Parliament and rejected the amendments tabled to the statement of expenditure by the opposition parliamentary groups. The number of amendments kept for this plenary is as follows. Parliamentary Group of En Marea: amendments to the articulation, 51; amendments to the numerical states, 380; a total of 431 amendments. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia: amendments to the articulation, 73; amendments to the numerical states, 546; a total of 619 amendments. And amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego: amendments to the articulated, 35; amendments to the numerical states, 342; a total of 377 amendments. So in this plenary we are going to debate a set of 159 amendments to the articulated and 1,268 amendments to the numerical states, which makes a total of 1,427 amendments, which are the remaining processing pending. The ditam consists of an articulated text and a number of states, consisting of income, expenditure and financial states. The total consolidated budget of the autonomous public sector amounts to EUR 11544,351.293. The articulated text consists of an explanatory statement, followed by 62 articles grouped into 6 titles, 19 additional provisions, 2 transitional provisions, 3 last layouts and 7 annexes. Title I refers to the approval of budgets and the modification of appropriations regime. Title II regulates staff costs. Title III shall be the one referred to in respect of obliging transactions and guarantees. Title IV regulates budgetary management. Title V is dedicated to the financing of local corporations. Title VI refers to tax rules, which include a single precept in relation to the criteria for the allocation of environmental damage tax and the wind canon, since most of the tax regulation is contained in the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures which is about to be processed in plenary. Finally, the deadline for the future law, as well as its date of entry into force, is determined. Thank you very much. Expenditure statement set debate
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u4	Thank you, Mr. Losada. We are therefore moving on to the joint debate on the state of expenditure. We started with the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. That's what Mrs. Pontón has to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u5	Thank you very much and very good day. Let me say my first words are to remind Laura Luelmo, to say that today we are all Laura, and also to claim women's right to be able to run without fear and not have to run out of fear. [[Applause]] I think today we're living one day that makes it very clear how the solution to the problems that women have is not, of course, telling us that we can't go alone in the street or that we have to hide, but that the solution is to teach those who are monsters to whom they are not, and until this is done, there will be no solution, gentlemen. As we entered the debate on today's issue, which is the final debate on these budgets, I remembered what we said here a few weeks ago when this law began to be dealt with. I said, on behalf of the BNG, that these budgets were a bit like the day of the Marmot: we are always with the same headlines, with the same promises, but we are also always on the day of the Marmot in how these budgets are handled, because — if you do — we see that the People's Party has absolutely no interest either in dialogue with the opposition nor in hosting any of its amendments, they really have no interest in making amends. And as the protagonist of this film was told, if mistakes are not recognized, if there is no desire to change, the grave thing is that they will continue to condemn the Greeks and the Greeks to live on this day of the halted marmot, precariously, with cut public services, with a very serious problem of juvenile emigration in our country. Finally, we see how wrong you are that you are condemning the Greeks and the Greeks with anti-social policies, that do not address people's problems and that they also put us in very bad position when facing major future challenges, such as putting us in the head of innovation or ending with precariousness, which so many problems are generating in our country. So we see how they turn into a sort of decorated Parliament of Galicia, where they don't listen at all to a single opposition proposal. But there is also a portrait that is the portrait of a parliamentary group and a government installed in political sovereignty and that does not accept a single amendment to improve these budgets, and this actually implies that we have to keep our vote against this Budget Project because they are antisocial and without future for this country; budgets that leave us a Galician in precarious terms, with low wages and pensions while firing the price of gas, the price of electricity and the price of light; antisocial budgets that in addition continue with cuts and privatizations in public services, particularly in primary health care, cuts that have been caused by so much suffering; and budgets that only move in the direction of continuing indebtedness to this country. We see that there is an economic cycle that changes, but the Galician Union continues to owe Galicia more and more; and what they leave us is an inheritance that will be others who have to pay it, in which they tripled our debt and put it in their most historic, which is EUR 15,000 million; I insist, a debt that others and others will have to pay. So we see how these budgets make it clear that the Government of Feijóo is part of the problem and is not part of the solution, and that we also have a complex president who doesn't trust Galicia. In front of these budgets, we, first, presented an amendment to the whole, a cross-sectional amendment, in which we wanted to modify important accounts of expenditure; they did not accept anything. In this partial amendment process, we recorded nearly 350 amendments that they intended to put into budgets some of the demands that exist today in Greek society, but the People's Party has installed in the "no", and so we see a People's Party that votes not to a Primary Care Improvement Plan; to which we hire more doctors, doctors, pediatricians and nurses; to which we make a plan to shock the waiting lists. The PP will also vote not to end the police of electricity and energy poverty. It does not vote for us to move towards a Greek tariff that ends with the abuses and privileges of the electricians and that allows us, for example, that the workers and workers of Alcoa or Ferroatlantic don't have to spend this Christmas with the heart in a fist. [[Applause]] The People's Party also votes not to put in place a new model of production that bets on innovation, on closing cycles, on quality employment. The PP will also vote not to increase scholarships, not to vote for more public infant schools so that really reconciliation is not something that remains in the hands of families. The PP does not vote for the addition of non-contributory pensions, which has been frozen for ten years. Those low pensions make a lot of people have to survive with absolutely poor amounts. The PP also votes not that we increase more funds and resources to fight against gender-based violence, and of course, ladies and gentlemen, that it will not in good word end the violence of macho. It is not 350 that show us how far the People's Party is trapped in that political sovereignty that empty of content the true meaning of democracy and the Greek Parliament. This, in fact, is not a novelty, we have seen it year after year in the Budget Debate, but we also see it in what is happening in Parliament these days, which we have a People's Party who must think that, as most people have, Parliament is theirs and that they can use it as their own reading. And there comes such boldness that they intend to veto the use of a public room that we always use opposition groups to give a voice to the people who suffered in the foreground the cuts in public health. That's your respect for democracy and citizens. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Indeed, we want to start this debate by talking about what is going on in health. The government's budgets are a very clear mirror of which is the public health demolition program that the People's Party has. The hidden proposal that brought us these budgets was to charge the primary care pediatrics. Because they're not able to solve this problem, they wanted to have a right that children and girls have to have quality health care. In fact, when you found out about the health that these budgets brought, you had to adjust because everyone went out in the trumpet against the real nonsense they wanted to make. And what we invite them to do is to continue to correct them, because you, when you correct them, are right. We invite them to rectify because there are a lot of public health problems that need a solution; problems that they may not want to hear, but that they really are there. We have 100,000 Galicians who don't take the drugs they need because they can't afford them. We have a lot of people who can't access oral health because they don't have the resources to deal with these expenses, nor are they covered in public health. We have the waiting lists shot, because the waiting lists have gone up and there are thousands of people waiting for them that don't appear on those lists that you publish, they're hidden in the drawers. You caused such a disaster that there were three strikes these days in health care and nothing but the resignation of twenty-two heads of area in the Vigo area. Of course, you've managed to make everyone agree that your health policy is a disaster and that it's endangering people's health. Obviously, this has a responsibility, which is the PP's health policy. And this dismantling of public health has an instrument, and it's precisely the budgets. That's why we ask them to rectify this policy and at least take into consideration some of the amendments we make to it; you amend, for example, how to hire more staff, because it's false that in this country there are no doctors and doctors to be hired in Primary Care. A short time ago there was an OPE, there was thought that 241 places for primary care doctors or doctors and a thousand people were introduced. How can you, after this, tell us that there are no health personnel? What is not the popular party's desire to hire more doctors and doctors and give them job stability and decent working conditions. That's what's missing in Galician Union. [[Applause]] So they rectify and support the BNG amendments that call for the most personal, shock plan against waiting lists, expand the service portfolio, for example, to oral health, or start an absolutely necessary debate like the Vigo Hospital rescue, because it can't be that they condemn the most populated area in the whole of Galicia to have poor and privatized health care. But health, which is a very clear mirror of the disaster that is creating the policies of the People's Party, is not the only aspect where you are wrong and where corrections are needed. We have made it clear that, in order to solve a problem, the first thing they have to do is acknowledge it. And a serious difficulty we have is that in this budget debate there is a certain amount of deception, because budgets do not cease to be a forecast, and as important as seeing what is expected in budgets is then seeing what is the reality of their execution. And the fact is that here we see how the People's Party is not executing the budgets it presents in the Galician Parliament and is also giving up functions in those areas where, from the point of view of employment, it would be more important for the Union to stimulate its activity. Here, for example, as we arrived on 30 September, which is the latest official budget execution data, and we see as the Rural Environment only executed 37.9%, the Environment and Planning of the Territory 37.9%, the Council of the Sea 34.5% and, in full economic difficulty, we see how the Economic, Employment and Industry Council, which had to be the engine of job creation and economic stimulation in our country, is 25.7% running. In fact, this is part of this posverity that you install in everything you do. They say it's the most unlikely government, but then we see what a government cannot — yes, yes, unable — execute the budgets it presents. And where the less you invest is precisely in those elements that would be key to stimulating the productive tissue. When we see the execution by chapters, we see again how real investments and capital transfers have an execution of 36.5 and 30.7; that is, a execution of very low on 30 September. And we're still seeing how that's the general tonic of the budgets of the Board, where they're unable to really develop the project you're presenting, and on issues like economy and employment is where you have a lower degree of execution. And that's also because, in fact, this government prefers not to invest because it can present some public accounts that then say they're the most healthy. Indeed, execution is important because it is the real portrait of what you are doing in this country, which is not even so much what they present with propaganda, with great headlines, in this Parliament. And one of the issues we are concerned about is that in a country where our rural environment is being depopulated, where we have a very important fall in rural activity in everything related to agricultural activities, the Government does not stimulate any kind of real activity in this area, nor is it able to put us in the head in aspects that are now key to innovation. I know this bothers them a lot, but it's just that you're an innovicid government, because you've got something that's not easy, that's making half of the innovative companies in our country disappear, and also putting Galicia in the queue wagon of innovation. This is the reality that we have, and you, in addition, make traps in this area. For example, in 2017 they announced with any candy and dish that would increase investment in R+D+i, but the reality is that that same year what they did was take away 24.5 million euros from innovation and they are unable to invest or invest what they had planned. And this year in which we're going to see again how after we've been announced that there's going to be a huge increase in support for innovation -- we're not going to get into it that it can't be innovation building, that they're diverting funds to build a building is a whole mess -- when we're going to run the programs that have to do with innovation, we see that the Welsh Plan of Research, Innovation and Growth is only implemented at 23.5, university research at 13.5, and support for modernization, internationalization and improvement of competitiveness and innovation has only been implemented at 14.4. I mean, we're in front of a government that doesn't have any project and that doesn't even be able to be the stimulus that would need our country at the moment, besides, in a key moment. We see, therefore, that there is no desire to implement or even a clear proposal, from an economic point of view, that has a self-centered strategy in our country. And in the face of this disillusionment, what we propose in our amendments is a change in that sense, and we make proposals to really set more funds for innovation, so that we end up with the precariousness of researchers and researchers, so that in this country we have tools that allow us to capture and retain talent. There are examples that are working very close to us, and I know you're upset, but ICREA or Ikerbasque are models of how to bet on innovation. Let's do it also from Galicia, inspired by what works well and actually making a strategic bet for a sector that's going to be the key. But it's not just enough innovation. We have an agricultural sector with a lot of potential; we have to close productive cycles and this is not in its agenda. You're the only agenda they have to continue to pursue our country of eucalyptus, all at the service of the politics of Ence and without giving a horizon of hope in the face of the challenges that we have ahead. Because, in fact, in our rural areas and in our mountains there is a lot of future if the policies that are being made right now change and bet on a very different model. And doing this is key, because there won't be any real employment policy if this country isn't going to produce. We think this is one of the basic issues. And here we have another important difference with the diagnosis of the People's Party. The People's Party, which lives on, I don't know if in the Yupi worlds, but in that virtual reality that tells us that we live in the best possible worlds, denies that it's a problem that emigration 270,000 people in a decade; also denies that we have a serious problem of precariousness; and denies that there is an obvious difficulty and a very serious problem when the economy is growing, it's increasing wealth, but there is really no real recovery from employment. And here we have an occupation rate that, of course, is very worrying. We have today, in addition, a decline in the occupation that occurs mainly among young people: we are talking about 151,600 less busy boys and girls than before the arrival of Feijóo to Junta. And there's also a very serious problem of precariousness, which affects very much youth but also affects women's employment. Here you see that you have no real alternative. In fact, there are things that don't depend on the German Government. It's not up to the German Government to derogate labour reform. However, you've always been against it. But if there are others that depend directly on the Galician Union, and that has to do with public employment, and the fact is that the government of Feijóo was a machine to destroy public employment. According to the data given to us by the Galician Union in its official memoirs, they destroyed public employment and also made work conditions increasingly precarious. We think this is a mistake because the public sector has to be the engine of what kind of job is created in a country, and the reality is that the Union, instead of creating jobs, destroys it and, instead of betting on stability, has bet on precariousness. We propose to them in a number of amendments throughout the articulate that public employment be recovered: that teachers be recovered; that health personnel be recovered; that they also recover and that there be a strategic wager by the dependency, where much employment could be generated; that there be a wager by children's schools; that the Galician Union uses all the economic resources it has to put in place a very powerful bet from the point of view of public services that would also mean creating quality jobs. And you know, in addition, that this directly affects the creation of female employment because in this kind of evidence in the oppositions, the most commonly accessed are women, so there might be a very important action there. But we see that this is not the way and that they don't even aspire to recover all the jobs that have been lost over the years. There are other areas that are important to us because they are strategic for a country, and one of them, of course, is education. The more public investment there is in education, the more progress and social equality we will have in our country. The reality is that today we have a Galician who invests less than 2% in education ten years ago. That's Feijóo's balance sheet. They cut $2,000 million in the public, while they were for exactly this amount of private education in these ten years. And where did they focus the clippings? For basically at university and compulsory education; that's where they focused the most important cuts. And what they're doing is playing with the future of a country and playing with the future of entire generations of the Greeks and the Greeks. In that sense, look, ladies and gentlemen, we, from BNG, deeply respect the religious convictions of all people, but it is clear that something fails when this government allocates 22 million euros to the professor of religion but only 3 million euros to scholarships to help the study. Something fails when they persist in educational concerts with centers that segregate children; they prefer you to follow the wave of Opus Dei, rather than the wave of equality. Something fails -- something fails -- I think they should listen -- when all the directors of public universities are saying that it can't be continued with a funding plan that condemns them to have less investment than the average state and much less than the European average, and so, of course, it's very hard to be able to do everything that would happen to them by the Greek universities. [[Applause]] We propose is a strategic bet for education, recovering teachers, also increasing resources for the university, which cannot continue to be alibi, tied by hands, for a financing plan that has been negotiated in full crisis; bet on higher funding in the scholarships so that no one in this country will cease to access his university studies for lack of resources; and also bet on making public education, in the mandatory field, really free education, and for that we need more school lunchers and free school material. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, these are the bets of the future in a key area, but it is not the only thing we should be concerned about. We are a country that has a very strong level of aging, with a very high number of dependent people, and the reality -- because the official statistics of the Union itself say -- is that the services we have for the dependency are insufficient to meet the demand. Official data from the Galego Institute of Statistics tells us that there are 30,000 dependents who need help in the home but who don't have it; 14,000 who need adapted transport and don't have it; 12.300 people who ask to go to a center of the day and don't have it; 9,935 people who don't receive dependency benefit despite having a right to it; and that in our country we have to wait an average of two years to be able to access a public residence, and you are out of the law, because what the law says is that, at most, a person could wait nine months. In view of this situation, the only proposal you put on the table is to promise us seven residences in the Greek cities that have been promising for years, with a budget allocation of 3 million euros. With these resources it is impossible to start any residence, and what we propose is that at least this game be doubled, so that there is not so much propaganda and we start to see the facts a little bit more. I'm going to end up with two aspects that, from our point of view, are also very important and that are very badly treated in these budgets. The first one has to do with the English language. This government has more resources than previous PP governments, for example, by Manuel Fraga, and Fraga is not a reference to us at all, I don't know if it is for you. In any case, these budgets are intended for half of what Fraga intended for language normalization policies. And I don't know, probably some of them look good, we feel bad, because we believe that the Greeks and the Greeks who give their backs to our own language, what they're disregarding this country. We're at a time when the Welsh language has important problems, some of them caused by the Galician Union with that decree of shame that the only thing you want is that you can't meet on equal terms in the Welsh language. We want that decree to be repealed, but there are many more things that could be done by the Galician Union and not do. The Galician Union could put in place language normalization measures between youth and not youth; we give it the opportunity in these amendments. The Galician Union could support the presence of the Greek normally in the written press, the Greek media. Today, there is less press in Greek than in franchise, you do what you are doing with our language! We're asking for help so that the Greek media can move forward, they have a greater audience. And, of course, we could also make progress in the field of justice, where Greek is basically a proscribed language, because it is now impossible to use it with some of the software that has been installed. What we want is that all this reality is changed and that there is support for our language. Because it's also an obligation that you have, which sets out the Statute itself of autonomy, and I don't think they can be filling their mouths with which they are great defenders of the Statute and then in practice they don't comply with it, as you are doing with the Greek language. Finally, it is important for us to have a clear priority for equality and a clear priority for combating gender-based violence. We have tried the transversal amendments that we have devoted one out of every 100 Euros in the Union to fighting one of the main problems this country has, which affects 52% of the population, and you have not voted. We have brought more amendments to put in place a unit to implement gender-based violence policies in the field of justice, which we are seeing as a lot of problems. We hope they don't vote. We also bring amendments to increase the resources received by women victims of masculine violence. We really think that this is an issue where it would be important that there be some agreement in this regard. And I end up telling the People's Party that we're in a process that you're turning into a Parisian with that political superiority that gives them the absolute majority. That the Greeks and the Greeks deserve to be the time in this Parliament, that we recognise the problems that exist and, above all, that they begin to see solutions to these budgets. They have the opportunity to rectify policies that are causing suffering: in health, in education, in dependents, in unemployed people. This would, of course, be the best contribution you could make right now. They probably prefer to have sex thinking that you're right, even though there's a lot of people out there having a bad time. For our part, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u7	Good morning, everyone. This debate, indeed, is a debate that has an excessive and unnecessary repetition, because after so long as it is intended to discuss and debate in this Parliament about budgets for the next year, at the end we make a circle and come back to the beginning, it is a futile effort that these two months, and it is already known that futile efforts cause some melancholy. However, I think it's also an opportunity to make some necessary reflections. I'll try to structure my reflections on three aspects. First of all, that kind of policy of the inevitable that moves us to Galician Union. We do these things, we do these policies, we start these policies because there's no alternative, because there's no choice. One variant is: look at you as in other autonomous communities, they're doing very similar things, and therefore they leave us nothing more than the context itself, the reality itself. Secondly, the triumphal politics, which also partly depends on this comparison with other communities, but which often has a more specific version, more casticious and more Greek, like saying, we're doing well, we're the best in this. I think there's plenty of propaganda, and it's about revealing what's hidden behind. And then a chance, too, the last one surely, to explain to us what these two months have not been able to verbalize, for example, in relation to the downsizing of the property tax. You can know what's behind it, why they do this. I think citizens well deserve an answer to these things. The summary is that we're going to vote that we don't. We're going to vote that not because this budget, in our opinion, does not shift the recovery of economic activity to the care of people who need it most. Do not shift the performance of economic recovery to strengthening basic services. We'll also talk a lot about health next time. [[Applause]] He's not preparing the future or in terms of investments. We've already said a month and a minute ago that reduced the gross formation of autonomous capital in relation to last year. Nor does it prepare the future in human terms. He's still betting on the same policies of attention on demographic issues that have led to a continued fall in the population over the past ten years. It does not contribute to generating quality jobs, either in sufficient quantity or in sufficient quality. So it's an economic growth that is socially decompensated. So this can't have our vote in favour. Let's start, then, a little bit more slowly, explaining some things for basic public services, specifically for health care. I suppose we can talk here without censorship, Mr President, about health issues. Yesterday, too, some of the people we proposed had come to this investigation commission and the absolute majority of the People's Party had prevented them from coming. [[Applause]] The problem with this investigation commission is that only those who want the coming People's Party come, and that can't be. And these people have made a very accurate, very accurate description of the difficulties of public health in this country, from knowledge, from proximity and from the heart. A particular vision, because the others must complement it, but, in any case, a vision with much knowledge of cause, with much accurate knowledge of what was going on. You speak of health policy as an inevitable policy; a policy that must be done either because there are no more options, and yet that is not true. It's not just a resource problem, it's not just a medical problem, it's also a problem of organizational decisions that have been made with total autonomy by the Galician Union and that ultimately compromise what is being done in health care. When you delete the primary care agencies and make up the EOXI, that's a decision nobody makes them. When you forced doctors to retire at the age of 65 instead of at 70 at a time when -- just for the effects of the cuts -- you couldn't hire the most professionals, they were making a decision that no one would force them to make, by setting two examples, among many others possible. And that's what happens, those things have consequences. First of all, the first consequence is that health, after a decade of cuts, after a decade of adjustments, after a decade of unacceptable decisions, becomes a wave the pressure that is slowly coming to an boiling point and is beginning to blow through the air that cap put over the People's Party and all media strategy to prevent the health problems of the population, which are many, from reaching not only this Parliament, but the front pages of newspapers and media headlines. The professionals are tired, and the professionals are warning with their mobilizations that what's about to come may be much worse. The citizenry is saying so too. If you read carefully the health barometers, which you should do, beyond finding that people are happy with the public health we have, because it is a health of some quality, they know that it is getting worse and that the problems are greater than what they say, and in those polls a negative assessment of what is happening in public health right now, which is not a problem of professionals, is a problem with the management of the media that the health managers do. And they persist in those policies, that would be a basic reason enough not to be able to support these budgets of the Galician Union. They persist in the wrong health policies, policies that drive discomfort in the 2019 budgets. It's not a budgetary priority, we've already said it here. Health credits evolve under what the budget set does, so it's not a budgetary priority. They evolve below what GDP does in nominal terms. Reduced health expenditure in terms of GDP in the 2019 budgets. There are no priorities, you could do more. We proposed to allocate 100 million more to health care. A hundred million isn't much, but a hundred million allow between 2,000 and 2,200 professionals to hire. How would things change in the health centers of this country if half of these professionals were to be assigned to these health centers? Well, that's possible, it's a political decision that you make not to do this. [[Applause]] Primary care, no doubt, has been in these years the great forgetfulness of the system, the 50th of the health system. We have given data in a recent debate. There are EUR 190 million less, in current terms, than there were in the year 2009 in primary care. There are 1,250 professionals less in primary care, according to budget data themselves, than there were in 2009. That's what the data tells us. But if you do, that's not perhaps the most important thing, the most important thing is the practices we were told yesterday, that are reflected in the media and that everyone tells us when you go through the country and listen to what professionals or patients say. They tell us that when a person takes vacations is not replaced, that when there is a bass, there are no substitutes, and often this leads to, where there are three doctors, there are two who have to take the same number of cards, and so -- one person with all the knowledge told us yesterday -- he came to have peaks in which he attended one hundred twenty-two patients in a day. A hundred and twenty-one patients, when what you're saying as a maximum reference is fifty, and in that same health center all doctors, all of your colleagues, were attending more than a hundred in a normal day, without any emergency, the only thing that happened was that there were vacations. Because this is happening in the public health of this country, and you go to Vedra, or you go here next door, to the health center that's just a few metres from Parliament in Santiago, and you see that's what's going on. Primary care has become the fifty of the system, and as a result, those who are not well cared for in the health centers end up in the CAP, and end up polluting the CAP, which instead of being those who care for outpatient emergencies, have to become an additional basic care device for those patients who arrive there with illness, with problems that they would deserve otherwise, at low cost, in health centers. And if they end up polluting CAPs, this ends up also reaching the top of the system, which, of course, has been better treated in these years than primary care; without throwing rockets, but has been better treated in these years. So primary care would therefore deserve special attention in these budgets. What did we find out? We discover that, if we see the data from our 2018-2019 budgets, there will be 58 professionals less in primary care next year, so that continues to produce the primary care adjustment in this situation, and that is the great message that you are sending to all professionals, who are claiming more attention, more staffing, more resources, in order to be able to organize themselves better and to provide, to patients who demand it, the quality care that these professionals want to do and that our citizens are demanding. Precautionary has become the basic management system of this situation. Yesterday they gave a figure in this meeting, which is a demolition. They said that between 30% and 40% of those who are providing health services as professionals have a precarious contract, an eventual contract, between 30% and 40%! Well, I went to see the IGE data, Counselor. You can think of it, but 2017's IGE data says it's 31%, 31%! [[Applause]] Data from the IGE, the Galego Institute of Statistics, Joining Galicia. So between 30% and 40%, as these people said. Between 30% and 40%, 31% or whatever you want, it's absolutely excessive, for many reasons, but among other things, because managers' efforts are focused on ensuring that there's little attention being paid to that amount of staff moving from one side to another, making contracts that sometimes in a month, or in two months, exceed the 20 contracts. This is an absolutely unacceptable situation in terms of management, and you have to stop. This is just being the way to manage a low-cost system, because that's the problem. All these autonomous measures of which I have spoken are measures that aim not to reinforce the quality of attention, not to strengthen the extent of attention, but to reduce the cost of operating the system. This has a limit, and at this limit we have arrived already, Counselor. And you know that well because you were also responsible for managing human resources in the health system. And finally, Vigo's area ends up becoming a black hole. We all know, too, that in comparison to Vigo's health area, it has the worst quality of health care throughout Galicia, and it's not a professional problem, it's a problem of system management. But at the same time, we have a flaming hospital that has a huge overcost, because a hospital that should cost 325 million euros will cost three times more; an annual overcost of around 20 million euros. Do you know how much this means in terms of health care in Vigo? Because 20 million euros would be about 800 professionals, something less. It doesn't matter what you're saying to me; a few hundred additional professionals for Vigo's health area would give him a full turn to this situation. Counsellor, changing health policies is an absolute necessity, and you are obliged to do so because you will not be able to bear the situation. And not as the opposition says, so the professionals are doing, which are at the limit of the perception that citizens have, and because you, who are sensitive to the electoral effects of these things, are going to have to react. The journalists tell me, don't you ask the councillor to resign? The counsellor in this situation would have to resign, but that doesn't solve things. It seems much more reasonable to us to change policies, and we would be happy if we changed health policies and gave, for example, the necessary strengthening of primary care in the direction we are saying. Surely the counsellor is not the most suitable to do so, but he is not the responsible, the responsible one is sitting on his right and well presumed of his knowledge in the matter of health, although he is now not, the responsible is Mr. President of the Board. Health policies need to be changed, which is essential. [[Applause]] And there are alternatives, of course! In the short term, we must focus on human resources; an ambitious staff plan, which can substantially reduce precariousness. We believe that we have to reduce between 3,000 and 4,000 possible jobs in the next four years; this is possible and has a very limited cost. This would reduce precariousness by 50% or 60% in public health. Secondly, there is a need to increase the net supply of squares. And you'll say, there's no professionals. No, many of the professionals left, first of all, because, because of conditions of extreme precariousness, instability and low wages of Galicia, they sought life elsewhere. So we need to improve the situation so they can come back, so they can come back and serve in their country, and many would agree. Secondly, after ten years of government, it can't be said that there are no professionals. Professionals are created, planned, and here was a manifest planning error, if that's the situation you say. Planning error which, by the way, we are fighting at the moment. We fought the battle in 2009 and 2010 to increase the squares in medical colleges, and you first said yes and then you cut them back. So if there's no healthcare professionals, they'll have some responsibility, too. Autonomous primary care is a priority, the increase of squares, the reduction of precariousness, and from there on, we encourage social dialogue with professional organizations, with trade unions, with all those who have something to say about public health, to adequately plan the future. Of course, we must face the challenges of the health system! You have to face the challenges of aging, you have to know how to control technological change, you have to use technology to improve attention. All these are issues that must be in the debate, but it is not possible to do this debate as long as we have the pressure that health is now being converted. So first let's normalize the situation, and then let's do this. Second, job. This is the second major concern of citizens. A prosperous future and an adequate future for Galicia is only possible, we can only make a viable country, if we make a human and labor base far more solid than we have today. And solid means, in extension, more people employed, but also means in better conditions, less precariously and with better wages. The amount and quality of employment is a very serious crack in the Italian economic growth, in relation to Spanish, which is compromising our future and which is sacrificing the situation of many people today, in the present. We've created fewer jobs than in Spain, Counselor. This is absolutely undeniable. In terms of EPA, there are 90,000 fewer jobs in the last quarter, if employment had grown at the same rate as in Spain, with reference to 2009. But it's just that in recovery we're also going to get worse, because 90,000 fewer jobs means almost to increase by 10% the situation we have, it would mean giving the opportunity to thousands of people who don't have it right now because they're unemployed or because they've been looking for life outside. But if we make that same commitment — and it is much better to do so, Counsellor — not in terms of jobs, but in terms of hours worked, this is the situation we have. This is the official data. In 2007 or 2008, we were over 2,300 million hours worked, and today we are under 2,000 million. We're at 83% of the hours worked for 2007 and 2008, Counsellor, or 83%! For recovery we still have a very long truce! And that's the big deficit we have in relation to the Spanish economy, which is in a much better position in terms of employment. But the problem is not just quantitative, the problem is also qualitative, the problem is precariousness and low wages. As in Spain, nine out of ten contracts signed are temporary. Temporary employment increases in recovery at a rate three times higher than undefined in Galicia. One in two jobs created is temporary. And for women, worse; and here we have a serious sample of what is wrong in terms of gender. As I said here recently to the president of the Union, all employment created for children under thirty years of age, everything, in recovery, is a temporary job; and all public employment created since 2014 is temporary. This is the situation. And what about wages? It was recently published that 70% of the new job for young people has a remuneration of less than EUR 1,000. And between 18 and 25 years old, the more than 80,000 people who are hired in 2017 have an average annual salary of 6,500 euros, and there has been a reduction since 2008 by 25%. This is the situation, and on this situation we ask our youth not only to strive to study, but also to build a future, to have children and to solve our demographic problems. It is understandable that, in spite of these hilarious statements from the political world, from the world of government, people take their situation into account and do not make such decisions. Because they want to have children, but they have half what they want because they can't afford the luxury of making that effort. Is this inevitable, Counselor? I ask you, is this inevitable? Could other things be done? The Government of Pedro Sánchez is trying to do other things, he's trying to do other things. The recently approved Youth Employment Plan is a bet. The minimum inter-professional wage, rising to EUR 900, is another bet. These are questionable issues in some respects because of their rhythm, which are questionable by their effects, but which indicate a desire to transform working conditions, recruitment conditions, youth working conditions, and job creation. We bet because here in Galicia you can also do things differently. You can foster social dialogue with social clauses that reduce precarious employment in all those contracts that are around Galician union and that affect a very large number of jobs, especially women, but not just women. They can make a public job offer much more ambitious than they do today in terms of reducing internal precariousness, consolidating many contracts that are possible and moving them into fixed employment. And they can collaborate more importantly with the efforts that have been made since the Central Government. You laugh at the central government's effort, but then, when you make the budget, as you know, you've increased the amounts contributed by 25 million from the state, funded from the state, for employment policies. Can you tell me what's going on with the amounts allocated to the Galician Union? Because, of the data we have, the Galician Union reduces 8 million funds for employment. That's your contribution: it reduces 8 million funds for employment, while the government's contributions in its budget amount to 25 million — and it still pushes its head, as if you were in possession of the truth. That's the situation, Counselor. And what happens in terms of inequality? Let's keep going over some things. Progress in social inequality in recent years in Galicia, Spain and the world is evidence. The other day the president of the Union was trying to question this, making Galicia an exception all over the Western world. It was much easier to assume that it is so, to know that there are fundamental forces that produce this result, because that assumption that market forces go in that direction leads us to more effective, smarter, bolder policies, to try to counter these effects and to mitigate their consequences. When you don't even take this evidence, we have a serious problem. In Galicia social inequality increases. The owners improved in the face of the employees; the perceived high wages improved in the face of those who had lower wages, the precarious workers; and wage deterioration and living conditions concentrate on youth. These are the facts of reality, they can't be obvious, they shouldn't be obvious, because that's what the statistics from the official institutes tell us. And there are still too many homes that have a severe material shortage. The president of the board questioned the other day that I had used the 80/20 index. I didn't have time to explain. For two reasons: because this is an index in which information exists for the whole of autonomous communities, but secondly, also, because it expresses better than any other index of polarization that is being introduced into our society, and that polarization is what we should be concerned about. Polarization means the lowest percentages in terms of income are going to the worst and the highest are going substantially to the best. That index has grown substantially in recent years, Counselor, and, in view of that, you have to ask yourself what your answer is. I see in the budget is an absolutely inadequate answer, because it's an answer what it does, in terms of taxation, is to reduce taxation to those who have the most, to cut by 20% the rates of property tax. And I'm going to repeat the data so you can understand what you're doing with this. It is approximately seven thousand Greeks who pay this tax, 2.7 % of the total, which have a net worth of 5.5 million euros, with data from Spain but which may serve Galicia. You know that the 25th percentile — that is, the lowest — the net heritage of the people who are in this percentile is negative. Why? Because they have more debts than assets. Well, you don't tell these people anything in tax terms in this budget. And people who have 5.5 million euros of net assets tell them to lower their wealth tax by 20%, 2,000 euros per head; but to some more people, to those on the top of the scale. And you have to explain why. And don't tell me that Zapatero did I don't know that; yes, there are probably a lot of tax issues that are questionable. But we have to discuss now that decision, which you make now, after you've agreed with us for a few years now that the estate tax was rising. Don't let him down now. Explain it, too. We can't assume a budget that cuts by 20% the property tax rates, because this means benefiting those who have the most. If he were in France, Mr. Feijóo would be telling him he's the president of the rich, or the richest, because that's a very French name: of the great fortunes. In any case, with this decision you are making substantial progress on that path. And why are they doing this? Counsellor, the tax policy of impulse to investment has other shares in the budget, and I've been seeing what these are. Because boosting investment seems reasonable to us. We want to grow, not like the Spanish average, but a little bit more. We want to avoid the expulsion of the savings and we want the investment here. But — it is done — investment in the alternative stock market for you has a tax cost of EUR 3,000; in acquisition of new companies, 76,000; creation or application of new companies, EUR 50,000; reduction of the tax on subsidies for the purchase of agricultural holdings, EUR 4,000. All these measures combined to boost investment in Galicia have a total impact of EUR 133,000, but the reduction in wealth tax means more than 10 million. Although we applied only 30% of the reduction in wealth tax, and not making it, these resources to strengthen investment capture policies, boosting investment in Galicia, would multiply their data by 3,000 percent. That's the policy we'd like to make, and that's the policy you're not willing to consider. And that's a fundamental problem. I'm running out of time. I had other things planned, but I might have stretched myself too far in health care. I'm going to summarize why we're going to vote "no" on this budget. Because it doesn't sufficiently strengthen the casts designated for basic social services. Because he despises primary care, specifically in health care. Because it lacks new answers to employment, in quantity and in quality, in general and particularly to the situation of youth. Because he doesn't make the necessary changes in economic promotion policy, he still condemns us to ineffective in this policy. Because it doesn't make it possible to fulfill the promises already made in social policy; the residences were mentioned first. Because it reduces infrastructure games, putting Galicia's internal efficient connection further. Because it depends on the necessary capitalization of external funds and reduces the autonomous investor commitment of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u9	Because he renounces the income needed for a stronger fiscal order. Because it lowers the tax burden on the luckiest and introduces incentives that are mere propaganda. Because the good news comes from outside — as we explain the other day — on equal terms, on employment, on housing, on dependence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u10	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u11	Because austerity is absent and wastefulness is hidden. For all these reasons, we are going to vote "no" on this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. On the part of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, to set its position on the dictatorship and defend its amendments, Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u13	Good morning, ladies. Let me also, on behalf of In Marea, my first words are to repudiate the macho crime of Laura Luelmo, something that, of course, we reject with society as a whole. And we take advantage of precisely what this budgetary debate coincides with to start talking about this issue. We demand, we demand that the affirmation of simple formal equality be overcome by all people, by women and men, because it is a proclamation that today — and already for more than a century — we have discovered that it was empty of content as a formal proclamation, that it was a role wet as formal proclamation if it was not accompanied by real policies — i.e. with budget supporting those political assertions — that they had made that proclamation of equality in the role a relationship of equality in practice and in society. We are talking about the social transformation, the transformation of thought, the transformation of actions, the transformation of citizen behaviors, which is what the situations of material equality really deal with; something that proclaims our Statute of autonomy in Article 4 when it says that the public authorities will promote the circumstances and conditions for declarations of equality and freedom to be real and effective in individuals, citizens, citizens and groups in which they are inserted. There are no equality policies if there are no equality budgets, there are no social policies if there are no social budgets. For that reason, we wanted to begin by claiming an effort in the transformation that will take place — or not — through the adoption of the budgets of the 2019 Galician Union, in general, for all the problems of citizenship and, very uniquely, for those who achieve equality between women and men. We see, however, that this is not going to be so, because we are living in terms proposed by the popular majority of a budget that is advancing — and we have already denounced it over the past few years — the existence of a new phase of cuts, where the budget grows less than economic growth. And that's why we qualify them from the very first moment as restrictive budgets, which grow under the forecast of the budget of the economy and which, therefore, prevent economic recovery from reaching the most disadvantaged social layers. Ten years ago the public budget had an estimated 20 per cent weight of the gross domestic product of the Galician economy and today is less than 15 per cent. This means that the budgets of the Galician Union lose power of social transformation, of redistribution of income and wealth. Because before the country's wealth, 20 per cent entered the common profit of the public, which was then redistributed with more or less public interest criteria depending on who the government was, but at least entered the possibility of redistribution with criteria of equity and criteria of social justice. Well, we have now consolidated a new phase of cuts where public budget growths less than what the economy does and which therefore prevents most people in this case and puts them in a voluntary position to avoid the redistribution of income and wealth through budgetary action. We do not believe in this way of drawing up and designing budgets. We conceived as the only possible alternative the increase in social budget to support social policies, because there is no social state without social budget, there is no autonomy of well-being without welfare budget. The public accounts, which we approve of in these debates, are the real support of social policies. That's why we made a political alternative, today based on an economic alternative, with 379 amendments that plan to act on more than 565 million euros. They are already bound by the debate of the partial amendments themselves, but which, together with our five-year multi-annual plan — which was rejected by the People's Party in its whole amendment — provided — and that is what we were looking for — to recover the level of social investment that existed in 2009, where the weight of the public reached 20% of the gross domestic product, to recover 2,000 million euros in a five-year plan of all that lost investment. We also want to denounce, as a previous question, the impossibility of having a real debate between the political forces for the purposes of bringing forward the 2019 budgets, which are already prefixed to us without any margin of negotiation. It has been two months — as the other opposition political groups have just denounced — with a budgetary process where we could not negotiate a single of the amendments we tabled, either in whole or in part. A debate which, therefore, remains empty of content, because we do not have a real possibility of inciting as an opposition to the budgets presented by the Galician Union and which will approve today its majority parliamentary, without the possibility that the opposition reached agreements, because they are prevented by the format of debate and by the lack of political will to reach agreements. A lack of political will that manifests throughout the budget, but which also has a start-up reflection, advice analysis by counsellor. We wanted to start, precisely by talking about concrete games and talking about concrete councils, because of the state of public health in our country. Indeed, the Government today has the possibility of changing the dramatic situation in Galicia's public health. We say from En Marea we usually want to pass numbers to people, and today in the budget debate is the ideal time for people to be taken into account when we do the numbers. If you think about people, the accounts come out. There is, as you know, a widespread and growing malaise with the management of public health, profoundly affected by the cuts in spending that involve cuts in rights, life expectancy and health, and, in addition, profoundly affected by privatization, which derives resources from the pocket of a few to achieve a benefit that could be invested in people's health and not in the business benefit. Whenever funds are derived from a private hospital, that private hospital wants a profit, a business profit. That business profit, if the hospital was public, would be destined to make public health policies. Why do we have to share public resources so private companies do business at our expense? We think all public resources must be at the service of public health. The deplorable state of over-care and the precarious work of primary care in Galicia, the systematic failure of the law — by law, ladies — adopted by the Galician Council itself, by its own regulations of the Council on minimum recruitment in the continuing care points, of which is shown to be judicious and embarrassing collectively the event on the Road this summer, or the chaos of public management and the impossibility of managing misery — which has caused the service heads of the Vigo area to resign in block — implies and indicates, from this debate, the need to change this situation with some amendments, which would have the opportunity to adopt, the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Recently, on the eve of the resignation of 80% of the primary care heads of the Vigo area, the Galaga Association of Family and Community Medicine, on the situation precisely of primary care, issued a communiqué pointing out the lack of political will to solve structural problems that required adequate funding for our health system, and specifically indicated that, in the face of the situation of progressive deterioration of primary care and the worrying and possibly illegal measures that have just been adopted —in — our managers, such as hiring trained doctors to meet staffing deficiencies, the board of the association made several considerations. I reproduce some of them, because they have economic content and they directly affect the debate that we would have to be here today and that will not give rise to a correction of the position of the People's Party, because rectification is not the verb that you like most. It says this association: we have to repeat high and clear the obvious: the great problem of primary care is the lack of funding, a lack of funding that includes personnel, infrastructure, lack of maintenance, projects, fungibles... and, despite repeating it, our administration has always denied this evidence. He had to come — sign it — a Professor of Health Economics to the parliamentary committee to put it back on the table. The percentage of primary care spending in the state as a whole is 14%, when experts defend 25%, and in Galicia we are two points below, 12%. And the worst thing is that in those years of crisis, hospital spending has increased and spending has decreased by 2% in primary care. It is demoralizing — the professionals are complaining — to hear from our managers the proposals to solve the collapse of primary care. They think that everything is arranged with a simple agenda change, they think that there is no need to take into account the evolution of population, chronicity or aging, and that we cannot continue with the speech of the 500 patients per doctor. This is a simplistic vision. What we have to study is the load of morbidity and put resources into function of it, put resources into line with needs, ladies and gentlemen. This communiqué ends: we are willing to collaborate always and when there is an explicit commitment and an increase in the funding of primary care. We are sick and tired of listening to measures and events without budgetary support. We are at the moment of commitment, commitment to public health is now, not throughout the year, when empty statements of budgetary content are made; it is now possible to support them in the budgetary field. In hospitals, when you do programs of any kind, you're always accompanied by human and economic resources. They say: we are primary-care doctors, not second-hand doctors, that we defend that we are not the door of the system, we are the system itself, the health system. If we don't understand the central role of primary care doctors and doctors as a guarantee of sustainability, we'll continue to dig the system's pit. We're not in commission times anymore, we're in decision times. That's what professionals and primary care professionals tell them. A message subsequently reinforced by the resignation of 80% of the service heads of the Vigo Health Area, denouncing as main points, in which it also has to do with this budgetary debate, first of all, the care overload to which they are subjected, leading to a deterioration of the care of patients, with an impact on health. It is said by doctors and doctors, the health care staff: the precariousness of the conditions of care of the patient population creates health problems. Secondly, the lack of forecast of lack of professional replacement, which has been evident for years in specialties such as family medicine and pediatrics. Pediatrics, ladies. A society that does not care for its minors, that does not care for the most vulnerable people, that does not care for the people who have just been born, is not a society worthy of being called a democratic society and an advanced society, it is not, we are not, and this is the stage where government puts us on a daily basis. Third, the difficulty of access to hospital care for patients who need it after being treated in primary care. Fourthly, the complaint that primary care centers have not been with stable material replacement plans for years or new equipment incorporation. And finally, the absence of any stable contracts and the deplorable working conditions for new professionals in public health, which give the service heads, the set of health personnel who today occupy positions of responsibility, ordinary jobs throughout public health, do not want to be complicit, and accomplices for one more day, of this deterioration. This is the situation, this is the reality, expressed by the professionals themselves and the professionals themselves, who do not ask themselves, to ask for the improvement set of public service. But, of course, most people don't care about this. They don't even want to hear about it. And when we say they don't want to hear about it, we're talking -- yes, of course -- about the fact that, by exercising the most ferocious bite, the People's Party has vetoed the presence in this House of the most uncomfortable witnesses of the truth that cause the cuts. What are those uncomfortable witnesses? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That of the people who suffer, that of the people who suffer the cuts in public health that you cause. You didn't want to hear the voices of distress, despair, sorrow, suffering from socially unjust policies and dramatic consequences. That's why you vetted the relatives of the deceased on the Road. It's a position of conscience that they have about their health policies, that they only see numbers and they don't see people. For you it was 300 euros, for you that afternoon it was 300 euros; for normal people, for sick people, it was a human life. So, please recapacitate. They think of themselves as people, not as automatons of cuts, they think of themselves as people, not as registering boxes. But in that commission you also didn't want to listen to people who have much to say, as are the professionals, the collective of health and health professionals, who "on the foot of war" are not defending themselves, they're not asking for themselves, but they're asking for what's all of them: a public health of equal and universal access, which does not exclude anyone and, above all, that does not condemn the disease to those who cannot afford private health. Despite their attitude, which has even closed us — in an unprecedented situation in the history of this Parliament, to shame itself and ally— physically, the door, access to room F, which has usually been used for the activities of parliamentary groups and even joint press rounds, in spite of this — I say — the truth without bites has entered Parliament. In spite of attempts to kidnap the President's word by denying the available resources in this House, the word was free voice to whom he wanted to listen. And we heard, yes, we heard. Beyond the report by the victim's family, who with emotion expressed the lack of empathy and understanding, the lack of humanity with which the family was treated by the representatives of the People's Party, who were unable to have a single word of support for the death of José Manuel, beyond that — I say — because we assume that they do not care, we hear a wish, a wish of the victims of the cuts, and the wish is that no one should ever have to go back to what we have been through, that no one should have to go back to what they went through. They came here and did not ask for them, they came here to ask for all the others, for the whole of citizenship, which is still in a position today to suffer the same situation. Just as we hear from the "PAC on the foot of war" collective admit the professionalism of the public health system and the need to equip it with more and better resources, with an expression also eloquently: we don't want anyone to die under our responsibility, we want to do our job well, if they leave us. This is how Eduardo Díaz summarized his appearance. Well, ladies and gentlemen, our amendments 258 and 259 could already increase, in 12 million euros, the capacity of Welsh health care to hire primary health care personnel, in worthy conditions that they deserve, to begin to tackle the problem and comply with the current law on the number of health equipment available in our country's CAPs; budgetary appropriations to comply with the applicable law. It's in your hands, gentlemen, correct the course. He's in his hand to listen to health professionals, patients, civil society. You're wrong, and in view, the results are there, the suffering of people is there, that's the result of their mistake. But they're in time to rectify, not for everyone, not for José Manuel, but for him to never get more cases like the Road again. They're not numbers, ladies, they're people. It's not 300 euros, ladies, it's a human life. And we asked them, if it were the life of their loved ones, wouldn't they want to rewind to do things differently? That's the question we want to ask them today. Our commitment for public health is not restricted only to this situation that we have just reported, but it also covers — and that is why we make the improvements we can within the margin that gives us this phase of budget processing — improvements in hospitals and continuing primary care centres, the demand for new medical ambulances in all areas to properly meet the needs of our population, the recovery to the public of Vigo hospital. We clearly say it: we don't want business benefits at the expense of our health, we don't want a few business at the expense of the prejudice of most. We don't want fundamental rights being violated so a few do business. That's why we want to recover for the public private management that are producing benefit at the cost of budgets of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. And, of course, the money of the health care they have to be: in resources for health personnel and human resources; that's why we cut budgets for the chaplains in the Greek hospitals, of course. Within the budgetary course, in the rest of the councils, our strategic guide was once again to defend social rights and provide them with economic support to ensure the exercise of fundamental rights and ensure the full exercise of equality. Starting with the amendments to the Vice President, we call for comprehensive action against gender-based violence by increasing the game. We understand that the allocations are insufficient in the field of campaigns, in the field of institutional advertising, in the field of campaigns affecting the population as a whole. The educational field, the cultural war, the educational war that has to be fought against macho violence is not only developed in schools; that happens with regard to the school population. But in the whole of society, which is not schooled right now, it is necessary to affect it. It is necessary that this educational battle, that this cultural war to end the patriarchy, takes place in society as a whole. To that end, budget allocations with greater allocations are necessary to achieve equality and awareness of real equality. It is also necessary to obtain more immediate resources for situations of violence. We're talking about the best endowment and expansion of the host network in our country. It is necessary to transmit to women who suffer from violence that will have an immediate exit from the area of violence and that that area will occur near the place where they were residing, if so desired, in order to make their normal life out of the home where they were suffering from ill-treatment. But we also demand the inclusion of women who are victims of gender-based violence. One of the structural causes of patriarchal violence is economic dependence, and we must achieve, in real terms, in an effective and socially perceived manner, that women who denounce situations of violence will have an economic backing. That's why we're talking about the work placement of women victims of violence. That is why it is necessary to make a real effort to ensure that this proclamation in the role of equality is real in economic terms. In the field of public employment, we also demand and budget the training of the Galician School of Public Administration in the fields of equality, disability, social equity and equal treatment. It is necessary, in order to achieve greater efficiency of available resources, that our staff will have more training, better training in the management of resources, too, in the area of equality. Training matters that we do not restrict to equality. That is why we also call for specific training in the fight against corruption, for the early detection of corrupt practices and for the capacity of a greater administrative reaction prior to criminal action that can provide for corrupt conduct and practices within the public administration itself. Within the area of Vice-Presidentship there was another debate during this fall on the occasion of the commemoration of the year of the fire strike that took place in October 2017, and we saw that, after that year, not even the thirty measures — and it was recognised by the President of the Council of Galicia himself — proposals to overcome the situation. Precisely many of the measures that have not been implemented needed economic support that has not occurred over the past year. That's why we're proposing prevention and fire protection measures. We want real simulations between the population to address emergency situations in the face of fires, we want the marking of safe roads and we want the launching of self-protection plans, not only in rural areas most threatened by uncontrolled forest masses, but also in urban spaces. Also the acquisition of emergency equipment and fires, which have not been equipped this year, the GHGs or the municipalities, to be able to assist with basic security measures in the event of fires. The creation of the famous forest research brigades, which was one of the star measures and were not budgeted neither in 2017 nor 2018 and, therefore, also in the budgets now, in 2019. Also the publicity of provincial consortia against forest fires, to recover decent working conditions for the workers as well as for the unification of the forest fire fighting service. Also within this board, in the field of cooperation and solidarity, we want to increase the budgetary share for the Galaga Coordinator of NGOs. We have a specific responsibility as a supposedly developed world or, indeed, developed world, but which is developed at the expense of natural resources depredation and which prevents normal development to the societies we exploit. We need to work together to avoid or overcome this situation of inequality created by our own system because of our economic system. So we think it's necessary to make an effort in that direction as well. In the field of equal training, we also call for promotion and information and awareness-raising conventions on equality and affective-sexual diversity. It's a reality that has always been there and that it's necessary to visualize. Like sport, which must be seen in equality and promoted in equality, practices for support to sports federations to promote women's sport, so that they can actually practice sport in equality. Also for the use of Greek in the Administration of Justice. More than a year and a half ago, we adopted a non-law proposal, unanimously, where we demanded a computer system, a computer application that made the statutory mandate to live equally linguistically between Greek and Spanish. This is the competence of the Galician Union and the program is the property of the Galician Union. Well, since that day, there has not been a single euro dedicated to fulfilling this political commitment. That's why we also introduced a budget game in this direction. In the field of the Presidency Council, we call for the reopening of the headquarters of CRTVG in Ferrol, Pontevedra and Burela, and we want to take this opportunity to denounce the situation suffered by the Galician Radiotelevision Corporation with a leadership that uses the means to be the expression organ of the People's Party and not the body of expression independent of the social reality of our country. We want to take this opportunity to denounce again here the need for the development of the status of the professionals of the Galician Radiotelevision, the need for the creation of an independent information writing board that reflects social plurality, ideological plurality, which reflects the reality of what is happening in the country and for it to be counted by the public in a true and independent manner, as set out in Article 20 of the Spanish Constitution itself. We demand, in line with what the workers and the workers do, that they have been doing "end of manipulation, recovery of the public service function and, in addition, increasing their own function." And we reject the sovereign practices, which is the only thing we receive from the President of the Council of Galicia when asked about this subject, as you did last week before a person's question in a press conference after the Board of Representatives. Demography and return of emigration. We could put a lot of data here, once again discuss them, but we almost made a proposal to them: go these days to the Greek airports and airports in northern Portugal and see what happens there. See the young girls coming to Galicia to pass — those who can and can — their parties, Christmas parties. They see the excited and exciting faces of the families who are going to receive them and return to those same airports in the first week of January, see those same people again, those same faces taking the planes to go to the places of destination, out of their country, out of their family, out of their people, because they have no opportunities to live on their own land. That's what caused their policies, which drove young people out throughout their entire period of government; more than 22,000 people under 35 years of age who made their bags ejected, because they didn't have any opportunity in their own land. The airports are there to see him, the bus stations are there to get you to see him. And that's why we make a proposal for an emergency return plan for emigrants and an emergency plan for returnees. We want the statutory mandate of Article 4.2 of the Autonomy Statute to be fulfilled, which recognizes the right of the Greeks and the Greeks to live and work on their own land. Is it so much to ask to do this and budget it? I'll see if I can. In the field of solidarity and social cohesion, also collected within the demographic impulse measures that are being made right now from the Observatory, with regard to this, the need for social integration of the refugees and the need to comply with our commitments at the European level to welcome the refugees. It's a political duty, but it's an ethical duty too, because they're running away to save their lives, simply, they're running away from a war that we're causing, with our economic system and with our life system, and the least we can do is give them an acubination and social integrals, by the way, for our own benefit too, because we need all those young people, all those people who can come into migratory movements, to support our own way of life here too. Within this council, we make two additional claims. First of all, a plan for the universalization of the rural wide band. If this is the legislation on rural life and not on the extermination of rural life, as I shall then mention in the field of the Rural Environment Council, we also have the possibility of creating real conditions for living and working in the rural area itself, something that cannot be done today. It cannot be done in many areas, because it is unthinkable to develop or develop a business project, a work project, without access to a minimum quality internet with a minimum width band in rural areas. It's not possible to make the big teleworking utterances if there are no minimum conditions of communication according to the 21st century. It is not possible to undertake in rural areas if there are no minimum possibilities for communication in this regard. And that's something that depends on all of you, too. We also, finally, demand that aid to those affected by the explosion of Paramos, in Tui, be made effective, that the Board once again rectify its torpedoes of simply helping to repair the homes in which people live, a maximum of 75% of their value. They weren't responsible for the explosion and they didn't have to bear the consequences of the explosion. And, therefore, they must be compensated for 100% of the housing value, not 75%. They don't have to load with 25 percent of us. That's unfair and therefore it's our commitment and it's the result of our vision of social justice that reaches 100% of the value of housing in both the first and second residence. As far as the Business Council is concerned, we believe that it is necessary to undertake a plan to combat tax fraud, particularly geared towards big fortunes. It has already been said here — and since En Marea we have said it on many occasions — that the change in the tax on wealth benefits the great heritage, benefits the great fortunes, assumes an unjustified tax gift to the assets of more than six million euros, of more than 40,000 euros a year. We understand that it's not justified and, far from it, what we have to do is investigate and predict tax fraud against big fortunes. And that's why we make a programmatic proposal accompanied by a budget proposal linked to the plan of inspection of tourist apartments. There are several aspects left to me, to which I shall later refer on the occasion of the replication turn, but just now, to close this first intervention, to regret the position of the People's Party of their vote against, of their vote against these amendments, because particularly in health care, but generally in the whole of the public services and the defence of social rights that we have proposed, puts the People's Party — we understand — out of the real commitment — not from the formal, from the real — to equality between women and men, out of equal universal care and quality, out of equal education for all the population, out of decent employment, out of innovation, development and technological innovation, out of language and out of culture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u15	...... yes, I'll finish, out of the country and out of the city. It places the People's Party out of people's problems and hence out of solutions to people's problems. And for this reason we will vote 'no' from En Marea, we will vote 'no' to their budgets, because we understand that their budgets do not look after people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. On the part of the People's Parliamentary Group, to fix its position on the dictatorship and to defend its amendments, Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u17	Very good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. With the call of today's plenary and the subsequent vote we will hold, Galicia will count on its budgets for 2019. We consider this, in itself, to be a good news, because it is a sign of political stability, of trust, a message for the trusted economic actors, ultimately also a message of democratic normality. During this last month we have insisted that we support these budgets primarily because they come with five features that I want to remember. Firstly, non-financial expenditure increases by EUR 363 million; that is, non-financial expenditure increases by 3.8%, reaching the maximum allowed on the expenditure ceiling, EUR 9,850 million, which means that since 2014, when we hit the ground in the crisis, non-financial expenditure has increased by EUR 1,452 million. Secondly, because this is done with a behavior about the indebtedness that in this exercise is practically witnessing. In this way, Junta, as you know, has achieved that Galicia, which was at the heart of the autonomous communities in debt in relation to GDP, has already shown a considerable distance in the third quarter with the average, because if you've been indebted to the crisis much less than the rest of the territorial administrations, and, in addition, doing so by fulfilling the spending rule, one of the very few autonomous communities that have done so, and of course, if it was an example followed by the others, the situation of the whole of Spain today could say that it is much better, given that the levels of indebtedness all international reports say that they are one of the threats that are found on the Spanish economy. The third feature is that this increase in expenditure is, essentially, like all the budget, in social expenditure. The budgets that we will adopt today have 80 percent of social expenditure, adding health, education, social policy and social action that is developed from the councils. It is the highest percentage of the autonomous Community's budgets in this area. Fourthly, because there is investment, specifically 1,650 million euros, but the remarkable thing is that 55% of that investment, 918 million euros, are the result of gross savings, i.e. the difference between current income and current expenditure. That means that we are growing investment over the average budget, of 5.2% with respect to last year, and at the same time by reducing fiscal pressure, this year slightly, with respect to some taxes—after I will speak in the second shift on the theme of equity tax—but, in any case, with tax reductions that are maintained over time, which we are seeing as allowing consumption to increase, essentially, because they refer to people who have lower incomes and therefore strengthen growth, as well as savings. This is possible because Galician GDP is evolving very favorably. In the third GDP it grew at an annual rate of 2.6, compared to 2.5 in Spain. We maintain a 4-tenth growth differential with regard to the OECD average and 6-tenths with regard to the European Union. And this growth, which is what stimulates consumption, is also based on exports, which advanced a 3.7 in the quarter, but what's going on in the year is going on at 7.6. The Export Barometer of the Galician Economic Forum highlighted in the third quarter that the export result of Galicia is outstanding. It's based on investment. In official figures, the largest part of GDP is gross capital formation, which grows almost 7% — 6.9 % — and which is also balanced because it affects all sectors of the economy. That makes it possible to create jobs. The latest published data, at the beginning of this month, speak of a decline in unemployment of 8.98, 16.800 people less than a year ago; in Spain it was 6.37; the difference, obviously, is in the active population and the decline in the population generally active in Galicia as a result of the demographic pyramid. And besides, right now -- a fact that I think we should highlight -- today there are many who are looking for jobs, 170,000 people in Galicia, but there are 10,000 less than there were in 2008, in which there were 180,000. Of course, Social Security has increased by 20,714 contributors; we are above the million contributors. Indefinite recruitment grew by 20.94%, and temporary by 4.1%, according to the latest known data; full-time by 5%, and partial by 3%. And yesterday, a report from Randstad was published, with data from the State Employment Service, which says that the time contracts converted to indefinite have the largest increase since January and October of this year. In Galicia the ratio of conversions of temporary contracts to indefinite is 43.9%, higher than in the average of Spain, showing that, in fact, temporality ends up becoming the bridge that leads to stability. Of course, I know that Mr. Leicega said we're triumphalists. We're not triumphalists, there's a lot to do, but what I think is fair to recognize is that the economy is going on a path of course very different from the one it's been going through our country several years ago. [[Applause]] Naturally, this economic improvement is translating mainly into the improvement of the labour market, moving to families. Also these days we know the data that the IGE presented in its salary study, which analyzes wages in the last year, in 2017. The average annual salary grew in Galicia by 1.92%, and the average in Spain was 1.78%, and that of women by 2.49%, while that of men by 1.76%. Much remains to be done in what is the convergence of wages with the Spanish average, and especially within Galicia in the convergence of wages between men and women, but what is true is that the figures tell us that we are going the right way. It is also true that the weight of wages in GDP has fallen, in total, because it has to do with the number of people working in the country as a whole, which are less than those before the crisis, and also has to do with the composition of GDP at that time, which was based — and hence comes the biggest unemployment bag — in a sector that was the construction sector. But all this said, it is true that the economy improves, that it moves to families, not only in wages, but also — as I said in the whole debate — in the number of homes that come with difficulties at the end of the month, which dropped by 10% last year; in the risk rate of poverty, which was reduced by 2.8% in 2017; or in the 40% of people who fell into severe material shortage, which was 4.1% in 2016, to 2.4% in 2017. Finally, we understand that these are proper budgets. They're continuity because things are getting better. Of course, in view of the apocalyptic predictions that opposed us in these debates in recent years, things are improving, both relative to the situation in Galicia and comparative terms, as it shows above all the fact that we are at the highest point of convergence in GDP per capita with the Spanish average. We have reached this point after a month's debate, in the debate on the adoption of budgets. I want to remember that debate is to discuss a topic presenting different options, to come up with reasons against what someone thinks, against the appearance of other people, and we address this debate with that mentality, which is brilliantly and from a liberal philosophical point of view, to listen to what we were told and from that point of view, certainly an attitude that was not opposed when I was criticizing the budgets before they were presented in this House, just the day that the board of the board of directors approved them. We claim reasons, of course we do not prejudge intentions, we do not consider that no one in this House is sadistic or wants to make things worse, and we are always willing to correct and accept amendments and correct what is wrong. In short, it is neither a Parliament that works as decorated, as was said this morning, nor that we are on marmot day, nor that it is a useless debate, nor is it a prefixed debate, which on the other hand is customary in all parliaments, since the budget submission initiative, as we all know, corresponds, in all parliamentary regimes, to the Government. We understand that it was a useful debate, and I will say why. First of all, because we accept amendments. Today it is said that we have never accepted amendments and just said that in 2013 we have accepted such a relevant amendment as to raise 20 percent of the property tax, and in this debate we also accept amendments. To PSOE, for example, to distinguish between tax, autonomous and state benefits, to make the expenses of the Welcome Card expand or to set precisely the date of distribution of the final settlement of the additional fund for the municipalities. To the Marea, indeed, the request that we be asked — which facilitates parliamentary work — is that the information on the budgetary changes is transmitted by computer rather than paper. Of course, the Block does not accept any, which does not mean that we will not accept any amendment to the opposition in this debate. Beyond the amendments, it has also been useful, even though you sometimes do not realize, not only by the amendments we accept, but by which reason your criticisms and comments have led us to the whole process of processing these laws — the budget and the accompaniment — to drive amendments from our own group. We heard the pediatricians, and the group asked for the amendment to delete an article that wanted to solve a problem that has health in relation to pediatric care. We heard suspicions of bullets in Mos, and we amended to avoid and make it clear that this kind of thing wasn't what this group wanted. So his criticism is also useful, even if we don't accept amendments, because we hear, we reason and, when we hear something reasonable, what we do is also incorporate it into our amendments. [[Applause]] However — the same as the opposition does not like so much — for what has been most useful to this debate, from the point of view of the majority group, is that, above all, what has allowed us to reaffirm ourselves in our convictions and reaffirm ourselves in the view that this budget is positive. And not because there's no alternative. Actually, there are alternatives. What happens is that these alternatives, as I shall now begin to comment, not only do we not find them convenient, but, reasonably, we believe they would contribute to ruining the process of economic and social recovery that is living in Galicia. And I want to remember, when it comes to the fact that most people approve a Budget Act, despite the fact that amendments are incorporated and despite the fact that there are debates and there are reasons, that democracy is not when what is done in a Chamber of seventy-five demands six. Democracy is a rule, the rules that guarantee that decisions are made by the majority respecting the rights of the minority. In addition, in this House, I would like to recall, when it is said that we cannot speak on what subjects, that 80% of the debates in this plenary are the initiative of the opposition and that it is therefore the opposition to which the debate priorities in the Galician Parliament are set. And now I'm going to explain why we were reaffirmed in the conviction that these budgets, possibly improved, are of course far better than those that present the alternative. I know that the amendment process is complex, I know that it is about sending messages, I know that many times it leads to technical failures — that they were remembered by the counsellor in his intervention on the day of the debate of partial amendments but also during the debate process in the commission—I know that there are many that cannot be explained, that there is a technical refusal, because they affect finalist funds, which therefore cannot be diminished, because they have to be used in the use for what is received from the Board. I know you're still trying to reduce the number of high office charges, despite the fact that this administration has a 30% lower spending in the cabinet and a 40% less in high office than the two-party government. I want to focus on the large budget lines that are deduced from the amendments of the opposition. Because it is necessary to distinguish between the economic balance of budgets rather than the accounting balance before making other disparities. The economic balance may mean that a budget is in balance — incomes equal to expenditure; therefore, there is no need to be indebted to it, towards which it walks the Union; it may have exceeded, i.e., it generates savings, debt amortization capacity for example, or in deficit, which implies that it has to be indebted in order to meet the expected costs. But, previously, there's another one, which is the accounting balance. It is that, regardless of whether we are going to be able to finance ourselves with debt or without debt, the accounts have to give us some income that will allow us to make the expenses that are in the budget. The opposite is to deceive and create financial illusions. When you say you're going to spend more on a matter and at the same time you're not saying where you're going to get the money, you can't spend it, because, besides, as we know, we're in an environment where recourse to the surviving deficit is not possible, and it's not possible, among other things, because the whole country has agreed at the time to integrate the euro area. So, let me say the fundamental thing, so your amendments have been a little successful, is that we find ourselves with a repetition of lack of income and painting income, literally, in order to justify spending surely quite well-intentioned and generally directed to saying that we don't want to spend on the second thing. That's the main problem for us that have its amendments, which overestimate income and underestimate expenses, and I insist: what leads to this is to deceive the citizenry when you're told that you can spend on some things when there's no resources to spend on it. In 2008, for example, in the Bipartisan Government, you budgeted 456 million euros of indirect income from the Union itself, for the year 2009, when the year 2008 — and the budgets are approved at the end of the year — the closure was EUR 409 million; in the end there was a deviation of 11% in 2009; because the budget in the middle of the crisis is going to be more actions that raise the payment of indirect taxes in relation to the year 2008, where the crisis has not yet hit at all, it is a way of painting income that then does not reach the autonomous arks. Or, for example, they put 26 million euros in the bookstores per caregiver, when real spending was more than 40 million euros. And when these things happen, what there is a hole that has to be covered by reducing spending elsewhere or simply leaving duty. And I'm talking about approved budgets and I'm not talking about negative settlements. In a debate that we had in this House, in the budgets of the year 2009, in addition to raising a refund of EUR 1,600 million as a result of negative liquidations on what was actually raised through state taxes, when we met with that budget document, there was ultimately an additional deviation of around EUR 1,100 billion or 1.2 billion, as a result that there were EUR 485 million of expenditure that was undervalued and, on the other hand, revenues were expected for EUR 650 million that were not real. This isn't new; it's more, it's still producing. Budgets agreed — there are, in limbo — between the Socialist Party and We can for the state as a whole in 2019. What does the European Commission say? That they do not match the accounts, that there is concern about deviation, that is essentially linked to the rise in the minimum wage above the pact with social agents and that they can empty the labour market, especially those of the youngest, by the revision to the height of pensions and by the forecast of tax revenue collection that will not be known what will be collected, which is the same as for sure that it supports Airef. Airef believes that government forecasts with new tax figures that will not meet the plan require adjustments to meet the target of the deficit agreed with Brussels of 1.8%. And it's also referred to by Airef. The minimum wage adds to the problem of contributions, which we all know is a labour tax and which therefore reduces the amount of work offered on the market. Finally, refer to the lack of credibility. In short, according to Airef, a hole of 3,660 million euros, or 0.3 additional deficit points, or simply saying you're going to spend when you know there's no resources to spend. And that's literally generating false expectations, generating financial illusions, or, in the most colloquial language, deceiving citizenship. Well, what happened in 2009, what happens in Madrid right now, is what translates from its amendments. They reproduce exactly that model of inflated income, expenses that will not be able to materialize and create false expectations and illusions, in the way of growers. There are a lot of examples, but let me highlight the most remarkable. The first, the Tide. The tide has tabled an amendment — which, logically, the House's lawyers refused to go against the disgusting article 135 of the Constitution — which ends 20 million euros from the amortization of debt. I mean, just as soon as the Union goes out to the markets to finance itself, just as a Socialist Party amendment asks us to increase our debt, what the tide is proposing is that we don't return the debt that needs to be amortized this year in 20 million euros. Why? They used to talk about auditing, they used to talk about unfair debt; no, now they just don't pay 20 million euros and out. Well, really this, as much as you're presenting the amendment with the best intention, because we can't support it. The Socialist Party is asking us to commit ourselves to 132 million, I have already said in the admission debate the procedure that curiously last year we were not asked to be indebted to this figure, and what they were asking is that we complete it with income from the autonomic financing system. In fact, here was a significant change in the position of opposition groups, it is the step of the variable resources that the system brings according to the group and the year. How do we do it? For the state communicates what the deliveries to the account are going to be, they are included in the budgets, and there is also a forecast based on how the collection is going in the corresponding exercise. PSOE before Mr Sánchez took office as president asked us in 2017 to ask him for 60 million more of the autonomic financing system; 2018, 40; and this year, 0. Instead, after Sánchez we're asked to accept Galicia's debt for a lot more. Before Sánchez the most modest tide asked for EUR 250 million from the system of self-financing — outside of any reasonable principle of consideration of what would give us a system that is approved and whose characteristics are known — and this year he asked for a modest EUR 213 million. I don't know how to solve this issue of income variables of self-financing, and we humbly believe in the transfers that the state is going to give us; that we expect — despite the vote against the Socialist Party in Congress and the abstention of Podemos — that include twelve months of VAT, because the state in this area was not as generous as the ability to indebtedness and left us without entering a monthlyity corresponding to Galicia by the territorialized collection of VAT in our country. A third example, tax revenues. In the committee we had an interesting debate about Laffer's napkin the spokesman for En Marea and me. And since in committee the truth is that most of us can hardly talk, there we are silenced, it gives us five minutes after hearing thirty-five or forty minutes of defense of amendments, because how they give us five minutes to position ourselves and I couldn't take much advantage of it, and I'm going to take a minute to make a reference. You know — because I told you — that I agree with you that the napkin in which Laffer painted her curve the modern public farm had been thrown out of the trash can, I agree. But I would ask you to think that in the same way that it's not true that all tax discharges are self-financed and can lead to a deficit, which also thinks that not all tax rises automatically translate into a proportional increase in the collection, because that's also true. And from the point of view of the farm we all know that there are disincentive effects, that when a recording much work reduces the amount worked, that there is what is called the excess of recording, which are utility losses for the whole of society; that there are other factors that make that when one raises taxes to collection does not rise proportionally to what one raises the tax. It's the same as Laffer's curve only backwards. But you criticize Laffer's curve and don't assume the second part of the consequence of throwing Laffer's napkin into the trash. This, what's taking us? They lead you to present us with a series of tributes and adventures possible errands, some very striking: taxes on embassies. By the way, euphemistically, it was said that this was the taxation of the 21st century, these figures that I'm going to mention now. It seems that an IRPF, an IVE, a corporation tax is not modern taxation, that's from the last century, and modern taxation is taxed on embalses. The PSOE plans to raise 6 million euros; In Marea, 50; and BNG, 0 — because it does not present it. Sugar drinks: PSOE, 0; In Marea, a modest half million euros; and BNG, 11 million euros. I looked at how much sugary drinks are consumed in Galicia according to information found -- I don't know if it's very reliable -- we're talking about 87 million gallons of sugary drinks. That means a litre of coke would go up at a price of 8 euros, and the question I ask myself is, if 8 euros goes up the bottle of sweetened drink people will still consume the sweetened drink? That's where you can see that a tax upload does not automatically translate into a collection upload. The most likely thing — if they put you in a litre of 8 euros of tax — is that in Galicia, we all drink water, at much with gas. [[Applause]] Empty living quarters: PSOE, 0; In Marea, 2 million euros; BNG, 36. Commercial areas: PSOE, this year EUR 6 million, last year 18; In Marea, 4; and BNG, EUR 30 million. Well, of course, with these income forecasts it's very hard to accept an amendment, because surely all that you say you're going to spend on imposing this additional tax, like the figures I just read and the comments I made to some of them, shows that you eventually paint income that you're not going to have and are promising expenses that you're not going to be able to make because there won't be that income. There are more examples, in this case of underestimation of expenditure, as in 2009. The usual criticism in Commission 2 that the fellows who go to this commission are that there are no works, that no sanitation is done, that no repairs are made in the German road infrastructures... But if we analyze the amendments to the Infrastructure and Water Council, we see that In Marea wants to reduce 40 million euros and Block 70, that is, 20% of the total. Then we can promise repairs, we can promise new works, but it will hardly be possible to do so by reducing the works, respectively, by EUR 40 million and EUR 70 million. You can do more efficiently with less, but works are hard to do more with less resources. Ladies and gentlemen, so many of the amendments cannot be accepted, that is why the debate has been useful, and we have reaffirmed the desirability of adopting these budgets. I insist, give stability, give confidence and strengthen social policies and investment in the productive economy. And, in short, because your amendment process -- allow me to think about it, or a memory, or anecdote that has been running for my family for many less -- looks like what happened to an old parish priest in Rioaveso, in Terra Cha, who announced on the eve of a San Ramón wanted to go to the fair to buy some things. Immediately his Rioaveso conventions began to ask him: one dress, another rags, some other bag — some farming instrument — and finally a boy with a potato came along and told him he wanted to have a chicken, the old man picked up the potato and said to the boy: you'll bite. With these budgets the Union will pita, Galicia will pita; with its amendments, unfortunately, Galicia will not encrypt anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u18	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Before continuing with the group round I would like to greet the members of the Juan Dreamador Foundation, who are women of the four Greek provinces who visit us today on the occasion of the International Day of the Emigrant. Welcome to Parliament. Nice to have you here. And now we continue, yes, with the turn of parliamentary groups. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u19	Well, it's almost late right now. Today Mr. Puy was, indeed, very abstract, he had to go a lot through the branches because he actually had a complicated role. And there was a matter to which I see he didn't pay much attention, and that's what it has to do with health. I imagine that because you think the health counsellor is doing this in an extraordinary way, I think it was the qualification he used after twenty heads of pediatric services were fired. I think it clearly defines your role in this debate. And all he told us was that the PP was listening to pediatricians. Of course, Mr. Puy, if you listened to pediatricians, you would never get that attempt to suppress pediatric care in primary care. If they listened, they wouldn't have to be able to correct the lack of hearing that this government has. [[Applause]] Because they're rectified is because they've been faced with such a fight that they've mounted in public health and because there's accusations that I imagine they'd at least make them think. And it's just that nothing else and nothing but they were playing with the attention of the children and the children of this country. And we're telling them that if the PP is about to listen, they're still listening. They keep listening to the CHUS emergency staff, who listen to the family of the person who died at the Highway CAP. Because I think you have been very upset that you have come to this Parliament, so much so that you have put in place an absolutely anti-democratic measure, as well as preventing the use of a parliamentary facility that always uses the groups. [[Applause]] It is clear, Mr. Puy, that you only like to hear when they're right, and when you don't: censorship, veto and trying to manipulate the public media in this country, which is what the People's Party is about. [[Applause]] So, of course, here are some arguments that the truth is that they are -- I don't know -- an absolute lack of credibility. Of course, the first is that there's only one possible budget, and that's what PP presents. Here we are in a sort of Celtic Olympus gods embodied in counsellors and councillors and MPs and MPs who have found the philosophical stone for which they are always right at all. Of course, they must sleep in wonder at night and rise splendidly every day. But, finally, you have to have a lot of faith and a lot of fanaticism to be able to say that. Because of course other budgets are possible, and of course more revenue is possible. To begin with, Junta would have more income if instead of signing a system of funding that discriminated against us, you'd bet on defending the interests of this country. Let's decide the Greeks and the Greeks on our taxes, and not Madrid, which we already see how it does: share always thinking about that centralist Madrid. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But in these amendments that we tabled at the beginning of the proceedings of this parliament, of course there can be more taxes! What's the matter is that you don't want to record the rents of the capital. Of course, that's why they don't want a large-scale tax that could be used to alleviate the serious crisis in small and medium-sized trade. Of course we could put a sugary beverage tax, which is a public health measure, a very important problem; but here comes a calculation absolutely out of reality. Of course, we could have a tax so that the bank, the big financials, the big capital, which has a lot of empty housing in this country, we would have recorded those housings that have these Voitre funds or that has the big bank, and we had a return to this country, and we would also be agitating the post of those housings on the market. Or of course he could put another type of taxation on the IRPF too, even though we have a very small capacity to increase the highest incomes or tax in our country. Because the fact is that all the reforms that have been made in recent years — and that the People's Party is responsible for a very important part of them — are going in the opposite direction: to clear the lowest incomes of the workers and the workers, and increasingly taxed for the big incomes and the big capital. That's the design you have, and also a design of a dependent Galician, which we haven't shared since the BNG. [[Applause]] And the second big argument that the People's Party has used is that we're fine, things are going great, there's no problem here: there's no 270,000 people who emigrated, we don't have nearly one out of every 10 people at risk of poverty, there's no problem of precariousness, when most of the job being generated is precarious employment for a new person who's trained and then you see how this system has no chance. You deny the problems in the dependency, you have not named that subject any more. Yes, Galicia is wonderful. And they come to tell us, more or less, that hiring more doctors and doctors spoils the process. We're told that improving the primary care of this country spoils the process. We're told that a plan to improve primary care spoils the process. We ask ourselves, what is the ruinous process, the dismantling and privatization of public health, Mr. Puy? Is that the process that destroys BNG's amendments? Well, indeed, we clearly defend public health with more staff, because there are doctors, if they want to hire. We clearly defend ending the precariousness of the CAPs, because it is absolutely inhuman what they are doing to the workers and workers of that service. [[Applause]] He told them yesterday, his group was invited to participate and to be able to hear as if he were breaking the voice of a person who rises every day to do his job well, and what he receives from the Administration is precariousness, punishment and more punishment, and above all the veto of the People's Party. Do we ask ourselves, Mr Puy, is the 30 million more euro process being spent on public universities? What process is ruining? What are there more children's schools in this country? What is it that we support the recovery of the burned lands, that we support the planting of native species and quality timber in our country? What's ruining? Really, what we are attending is a debate where the People's Party comes here to tell us that there is only one truth, with its unique thought, denying, in addition, that there were important and valuable contributions. Or don't you think a person who receives a non-contributory pension deserves the addition of the board that has been frozen for ten years? When we're looking at how those people are going to have to spend more on light, water, food prices, clothing, having to pay more drugs than ten years ago, and here comes the pride of saying that none of this is good for anything. What is useless is to continue to be set up in a policy that, as we have the absolute majority, we command and gives absolutely exactly what they propose, the problems that are brought about and the proposals in a positive way to move forward in this country. Too bad, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because in this debate you are going to get the budget forward, but the one who loses is Galicia and its social majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. We now greet the students and students of 5th and 6th primary of the Montemogos school, of Beluso - Good-, and their teachers as well. Welcome to Parliament. Now the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u21	Good day again. Indeed, we believe that there is a triumphalist version, a too sweetened version or a pink version of the Galician situation that the People's Party paints and conditions its budget. I'm not going to get into the discussion about the situation of the year 2009; in any case, Mr. Puy, as you well know, for the year 2009, the accounts presented by Junta closed with surplus that year, so it doesn't look like the best example. And, as you well know, in the figures that we said we could increase the debt in previous years, it's not only that it was authorized by the Fiscal and Financial Policy Board, is that if you go to the settlement, or first to the budget changes and then to the liquidation, you'll see how the Business Council used that additional tenth we wanted to budget in the liquidation to end up closing the revenue. [[Applause]] So something would have to be possible in what we were thinking. And why do we talk about triumphalism? You assume Galicia grows about half as much as the Spanish economy. All right, it's a reasonable evolution, let's say, it's not unaffordable to have that Spanish reference that's growing at relatively high rates in the European context. But look, this is the evolution of Galicia's GDP in constant terms, and it turns out we're still under the 2007 and 2008 reference, and we're still on our way. First, let's not be so triumphant when we've been ten years and still haven't come back to the point of departure, let's just think about it. And secondly, these are growth factors. Between 2002 and 2008, we grew not only because the productivity of work increases, but also because the hours worked in relation to Galician population increase. I mean, there's extensive growth and there's intensive growth, which seems reasonable. Since 2008 the number of hours worked has dropped substantially and as a result the productivity of the work has increased. This increases labour productivity is positive: low-wage sectors are eliminated, companies are eliminated that in a drop in demand are unable to compete and there is that increase. But you've done that since the bottom of the well we were in the years 2013 and 2014 the increase in the hours worked is very limited. Because this is about the increase in working hours, because the population has hardly experienced changes. Which means that once adjustment has occurred, we're already at a time when there's uncertainty about what's going to happen with that increase in productivity, productivity at work. Why? Because possibly -- I hope not, let us be able to overcome it -- there are many countries that fall into what's called the Middle Start trap, that is, the middle income trap, and it gives the impression that Galicia might be in it. And then we have to do everything possible to avoid it. So, how do you do that? It is invested in R & D+i, being able to have stronger companies, more capable of being attentive to what markets do, more competitive and, of course, with a much more efficient and better trained workforce. And we believe that there the board's budget sins by default, that it's not doing this. Sometimes it is assumed, sometimes in the initial forecasts it is, but when we get to the end of the process — as I said before — we see that it is far from fulfilling the minimum objectives: in industrial policy, in training, in innovation, in infrastructure... We talked in this quarter about the Plan Move quite here, and the Plan Move, which was a design with problems but which gave a reasonable horizon of evolution of the internal connection in Galicia, is far from being completed. And we say triumphalism, too, because this is Galicia's per capita GDP. Mr. Puy said we're at the best level of convergence. But it has been said that GDP per capita in constant terms of the last year is still below 2007 and 2008. We're going to be able to converge because in Spain it's going to get worse, we don't converge with Europe, but we're still under constant terms than it was in 2008. And there's a much more serious question than this. Why do we converge in terms of GDP with Spain? So we basically converge because our population dynamics are much weaker or more regressive. If we had the same population growth as in Spain we would still be in the year 2000, we would be in the year 2000. So we grow up because the population is regressive. What we all say is that it's a problem, which is the demographic dynamics that's so not active, it turns out that when we apply it, for example, to this, it's what allows us to breast-feed. So, of course, that something so negative and so critical lets us draw breast here indicates that you too have some contradiction. And on the demographic issue, which is a very important matter in the medium term, I don't see that you have any great news in this budget. We have spoken before employment, but the future central element is housing policy. And the housing policy, beyond the funds that also transmits the state, you'll tell me where it is in this budget. Do you know how many homes you plan to increase in the public park in 2019? Three. In the situation that we have in the housing market in general in Spain and specifically in Galicia is a limit, a barrier to the emancipation of young people, it is a barrier to having a future autonomous outside the home, which is delaying the age of leaving the home not only for this, but also for other reasons, because that's the housing policy that they make. And if we're going to run housing programs, it's under 41% in the last few years. Well, this is your policy, then, of course, if we want to have good news in demographics, but it turns out that in the labour market it doesn't work and that in housing policy we have these forecasts and these results, we will hardly be able to convince our young people that they make the decision to have children and have a future. I know that demographic figures can be seen in many ways. We believe that in terms of vegetative growth, we have to act on that basis, that is, on the basis of changing conditions so people can have the children they want to have, and that's important to do so and we don't see in the budgets good measures for this. And in terms of migration balances we know that there is an international migration balance that has been bringing people to Galicia in recent years, and that this depends, above all, on the situation in the economies of origin — basically in Venezuela and other countries — which are bringing more people to Galicia than it comes out; but in interregional terms, that is, what happens to the rest of Spain, Galicia has a negative balance, and this also concerns us because there is possibly a bias where those who leave Galicia have more resources, more capabilities and more opportunities. And this ends up impoverishing us too. Without being a matter of a huge quantitative dimension, if it's a qualitatively very important matter. We believe that we must also change demographic policy and that we must do so by combining a relevant change in the living conditions of youth, employment and housing with the promotion of an orderly immigration. Today, which is the International Day of Migration, it's probably a good day to talk about this, and we don't see a reflection on the budget. And Mr Puy also spoke of the matter of well understood austerity, that is, austerity applied to the public sector itself. And you tell us there was an effort to reduce high charges. Welcome back, but you can probably go a little further. Comparison with the years 2009 and 2010 is not good. We all know that not only has the social climate changed, but the way to deal with all of these things. So you can go a little further, but we think there's a need to make an effort in two specific areas, which goes into detail. A first area would be the recruitment of potential staff. We see that there is a big difference between some advisories and others that is explained only by the process of recomposing the organizational structure of the Galician Union. And this can be defined very clearly, setting objective criteria for potential staff and their spending on counselling, and making everyone more or less homogenous. And secondly, we also believe that we can act on intangible investments. We don't think we have to eliminate all the intangible investment. First reflection, if we want to know how much is spent on this aspect in the total budget of the Board, in the consolidated budget, there's no figure, there's no chance of knowing it, this information is not given; first problem. And secondly, if we take only the general government's budget, intangible investments are at 180 million euros, which is a very high percentage of the Joint Investment effort. Just by reducing this by 25%, which is feasible, we would have an additional EUR 40 million to spend on productive investments, which don't necessarily have to be roads. It can be in R+D+i, in strengthening the funding plan of universities or in promoting a more active and appropriate housing policy. This is possible, these are possible changes in budgets that do not affect big balances at all and that would pose a different vision than what needs to be done. Finally, the question of equality. Look, there's a remarkable budgetary reinforcement, it's fine, insufficient in our opinion, but it's okay. Very focused on combating gender-based violence, which is very good, and today is probably also a very appropriate time to insist on it. But of the additional 8 million, 8 and I peak additional million that increase these matches, almost 7 come from the general government of the state. Therefore, the effort of the Galician Union, the autonomous effort, which is what we claim to them, is very behind what the administration itself does. A similar approach to the Galician Union to strengthen prevention, to strengthen victims' attention, would allow us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u23	...to see this budget more calmly and more optimisticly. And by the way, we also have the opportunity to parity the board of directors of the companies of the Galician Union if you've passed an amendment that is unwilling, which you're not willing to do. All of this would make an budget, of course, for us much more suitable. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u24	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have just heard the People's Party say that they have withdrawn a certain proposal in relation to pediatricians because they are listening to their claims, and what we have asked them in the first place — they have resumed the health issue — in this reply, they continue to listen, put their ears, and therefore pay attention to what they are demanding from the whole health community in our country. They just resigned more than 80% of the service heads of Vigo's health area. Put your ears there and listen to what they have to say. What they have to tell them is that they need to finance, just at the level of personnel and existing resources, primary care, they pay attention to them, and therefore they welcome our amendments in that sense. They continue to listen and listen to the CHUS staff — from the hospital here in Santiago — who today was mobilising — one more day — claiming fair working conditions and means of doing their job well. They keep listening, they listen to the demands on pediatrics that exist in the country as a whole, in Mondariz, in Cangas, in Cuntis; that is, there are many localities, they are cities, it is the whole territory that complains that there are no specialized doctors enough to care for the most vulnerable group in our country, which are children. Listen to us, listen to us. Also listen to the CAP personnel on their way to war, which is the whole of the health personnel who are demanding more means for their service to function with dignity; they do not ask for them, ask for us all and for us all. There is a second first-order political element that has just affected us, which is the application of Article 135 of the Constitution as a key to vetoing a debate on EUR 20 million. Yes, we demand a debate on politics, and we demand that we be able to decide and be able to debate here — even if you later defeat us with your majority — where we want to allocate our resources. We think banks can wait, but social needs can't. So, of course, that's a political decision, of economic content, but political. For us our priority is to use those resources to meet social needs, and we say: our children first of all, the banks, women victims of violence first of all, the banks, the biggest of all, the banks, the emigrants and the emigrants first of all. You say no. Well, let's come here and discuss it. They don't give us that speech, they don't give us the chance. Besides, surely, how would you end up voting and draw forward your proposal, what is the fear of this debate? We don't think it should. We, of course, represent here a political alternative and an economic alternative where we also question that. We do not know what difficulty there should be in order for this debate to be brought out in political terms in this chamber. Of the shadow of doubt that surrounded the representative of the People's Party about what called the taxation of the twenty-first century, we actually revolved around two basic ideas: firstly, we have to seek wealth where it exists, and, secondly, we must also use public resources, in this case also tax resources, to obtain certain purposes, to some of which the representative of the People's Party very well referred. In relation to embalming, for yes, we claim that as a counterpart of that generation of wealth based on the squilled in its territory, we have a compensation that has that tax character. Where there is water, there is no wine; where there is water, there are no meadows; where there is water, there are no cows. And, therefore, we demand a different taxation for those companies that have a special impact on the whole of our territory and that as a cost of opportunity prevent us from having another kind of economic development. We also demand another tax, yes, for the sugar measures. They're talking about if there was a tax if there'd be less sugary drinks, less Coca-Cola. Yes, of course, you'd drink less, and that's one of the purposes you're looking for with this tax, not just to collect, but to change certain consumer decisions. Why? Because we understand it would result in an improvement in public health. Cases of diabetes, childhood obesity, stroke, cardiopathies would decrease. Yes, these are effects that would have that kind of fiscal policy, too, as a necessary collateral effect. As for the large areas, ask small and medium-sized trade, ask local trade whether they are interested in or not that as a specific manifestation of wealth they also have this economic conversation. Finally, to govern thinking in the territory, thinking about public health and thinking about the productive fabric of our country, or ruling for Iberdrola, ruling for Coca-Cola and ruling for Carrefour. Well, you have to decide. We decided on small trade, we decided on our own fabric, we decided on public health and we decided on our territory. Well, everyone owes a position. On the tax specifically on heritage, we think this is a question that as heritage is inescapable. The heritage is there and therefore as a specific manifestation of wealth is there; therefore there is no need to lower it. On the contrary, a lot of social needs to maintain it, because it means obtaining public resources to make social justice, to redistribute those who need it most. There's no reason to put it down, neither one, nor the first, on the other hand, is keeping a tax gift here, for those worth over 6 million euros, more than 40,000 euros a year. What justification is there for lowering that tax? None. And don't come to us with what other autonomous communities do. The need and social reality of Galicia is this, and we need those resources to make social policies; so we don't want them to be removed. There's a risk, the escape, they can probably say they specified it as one of the consequences; in this case there wouldn't be that consequence because we're not talking about raising it, we're talking about keeping it. But, in addition, to avoid that, in the field of the Business Council, we also included an inspection plan to avoid tax fraud in the case of great fortunes, because we will agree that from 6 million euros of wealth we are facing a great fortune, or do you look like that? Well, we understand that we don't, and seeing how much population that tax gift affects, we understand that it's not. I have just referred to three or four points which I have not commented on in the area of spatial planning. We want to insist very much on the need to budget the metropolitan areas for their necessary development; we are talking not only about the development of a democratic governance area in these areas, but also about improving the efficiency of services. We're talking about the need for services that are already rendered jointly between several municipalities to be strengthened in all metropolitan areas, both in Vigo and in Coruña. We defend here the creation of collaborative spaces and spaces in essential services, the creation of public, municipal or comarcal power companies, as done in the Barcelona Metropolitan Area, to improve mobility within the metropolitan area itself. We also serve as examples of the metropolitan transport of Barcelona, which is one of the paradigmatic cases in the state, where it can be managed well from the public sphere and, in addition, generate benefits that revert to the implementation of new services that pay for the public and not, therefore, for the private business benefit; which would improve accessibility, which would improve mobility. Also the development of the metropolitan areas as a preliminary step towards environmental sustainability within the area and the country as a whole and, of course, also to create new employment opportunities. We also have a specific game for the public housing construction program. We make ourselves echoes of data that are alarming: the increase in rental prices in the last year in the cities of Greece between 10 and 16% — only in the last year between 10 and 16% — the increase in deficits observed by the General Council of the Judiciary in the last year in Galicia, because while the state has come down, here they continue to rise the evictions, particularly because of the impossibility of paying the rent; and therefore the need to make public policies that have a budgetary backing, which is what we have here to propose. There's a lack of execution, we've already found, we've said it in other debates of the already small budgets in the field of housing rehabilitation and the provision of public housing, so we want to change all of this. In terms of employment, being a problem that is the most pressing for the population as a whole, we make several proposals that are all unattended by their refusal. We are proposing a plan of shock against job insecurity. More than half of the workers and workers in Galicia are precarious, either for having a precarious contract, poorly paid, for having a part-time contract or for having a temporary contract; so we think that we have to deal with these situations. We're also talking about a plan against the gender gap that exists today in our country: 29% of wage difference between women and men. A long-term employment plan. According to data from the Galego Institute of Statistics, in the third quarter of 2009 there were 40,000 long-term unemployed and today there are 60,000. Also a plan to fight energy poverty. We want real funding, funding economically provided for the social and energy tariff for Galicia, which we have already presented here as an initiative, and a plan to improve energy efficiency in the most needed homes. We also want to take this moment to denounce what we have done here in recent months: a group, a very large social segment of families who were in the last resort tariffs and who, by changing the system, will be completely expelled from that area, from 230,000 homes to 60,000 today. We have claimed — and you have refused to have it — that there should be a moratorium on the implementation of the new system, that there should be information from the public domain and that there should be an investment in the burden of proof in relation to the change of tariff, and of course an active role of the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition. We now budgetly support all these proposals and expect you to have a different attitude to what you are having. I ended up referring to the educational field. We use our resources and we want to make the budgetary changes to improve public centers, which have needs, in some cases, accusators. The increase of teachers, support teachers and the recovery plan of free textbooks, in addition to specific rural education plans and energy efficiency programs in the centers. We obtain these resources, essentially, from the reduction of educational concerts or from the abolition of the professor of religion. We understand that these measures, which you are opposed to today, are the measures that would solve a very important part of the problems our country has, because if you want to make a different budgetary policy for a different social policy, if there is any will, it is possible to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u26	Thank you, Mr. Villares. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u27	Thank you. I want to start by thanking Mrs. Pontón for saying that I had a philosophical speech. I'm just glad to hear that making a clear complaint that the problem we have to accept amendments is that you paint income and promise expenses that you won't be able to cover because you have painted income... that you say this is philosophy to me is filled with satisfaction and pride. [[Applause]] Look, that way of budget that we know of the past and which led Galicia to have many more problems than they could have known, even are those that, for example, justified that the Government of Mariano Rajoy, in one of the best decisions taken to combat the crisis, had to provide a payment plan worth 75,000 million euros to pay 292.515 providers, of which 47% were small and medium-sized companies that served the Administration, who did not charge and would close and destroy jobs. That's the result of painting incomes that don't happen and promising expenses -- and even doing them -- as much as they're very benevolent as they are, that can't be done. I don't know if it's philosophical to say that if you go up eight euros the liter of Coca-Cola or it's defending the interests of Coca-Cola. What's true is that it's better to ban it. I don't get into the bottom of whether you should ban sugar drinks or reduce their consumption, the case is that you paint 11 million incomes and pay them expenses, and if you put a tax that collects 11 million euros, it's likely they don't collect anything. That's what I mean, as you see, a little philosophical. And since we're talking about sugary drinks, I would recommend you not to drink the cup gas, because you've already been told by all the experts that if there's something you don't have to do with experiments -- and do them with gasy -- it's about autonomous funding that's solidarity with Galicia, which is not charity, but rather social justice, interpersonal and interterritorial redistribution of income that guarantees the 1978 Spanish Constitution. [[Applause]] Post-verity. You came here to say that the board is less in R+D+i just a week that we know Galicia is the second autonomous community with higher growth of R+D+i in 2017, an increase of 13.3 compared to 2016, when in the average of Spain the increase is 6%; official INE data. You're telling me about posterity saying that we want to raise the income to people who earn the least. Here the income tax framework was reformed, and the Socialist Group, the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Popular Group agreed on the rate for 80% of the lower income contributors in Galicia. The only ones who wanted to raise, by the way, the income to those who received less income were precisely those of AGE; that is, today Mareas. So don't come here after all because what's a joke is telling us lies, because this rate is published in Parliament's Official Gazette. So I won't say any more. Student scholarships. The year 2018 the Block believed that 18 million euros were needed and this year 3 million euros were needed. Counselor, we've done something good, it's no longer necessary 18, it's worth 3 million euros. I+D+i, in 2018 they asked for 7,892,000, now they ask for 3,450; something good we must do, they don't need so many resources according to the Block. I insist, I invite you to a sugar-free drink whenever you want and we talk about numbers, because this is little philosophical, it's just that way of making budgets leads to disaster. The spokesman of the Socialist Group focused his intervention on health, with which it is a pity that, having so much to talk about health specifically, he does not attend the commission created for the effect, where we are talking about health all these days with union representatives of all the workers, because there are all the unions called. And he talked about triumphalism. Well, I'm not a triumphalist, which I'm not going to be a catastropheist and say that things are bad when, fortunately as you've recognized, things are better. He also talked about the estate tax. Well, you know perfectly well, like me, that in 2013, at the worst moment of the crisis, we reached an agreement, which I think was important, to raise 20% of the rate of property tax. If you see the justification we had then, it was the same one that was given in France at that time, when a tax was imposed on the great fortunes, which was to record capital in order to increase the collection at a time when income tax or consumption tax dropped drastically. Certainly, that justification has already fallen, and we have recovered the state tariff; that is, we have recovered the same rate as the very progressive Government of Castile A Mancha, which is supported — as you know — by the PSOE and by Podemos. So we're going back to the pre-crisis situation, which is also the one we meet with the Socialist Party ruling, and I'm also grateful that an allusion is made to the tax on wealth, because when it comes to taxes on capital, we don't talk about inheritance taxes. Aragon — also governed by the Socialist Party and Podemos — turns out that instead of 400,000 euros of exemption have 500,000 in people's inheritances, and Andalusia has 1 million euros; it is true that here it is because they did not rule with Podemos, but they ruled with Citizens. So, of course, with these questions, because let me refer to the committee of experts that the spokesman of the Socialist Party has praised in relation to the reform of self-financing, which said that logic — and there is the key to why this drop and the return to the state tariff — and what experts say is that there are movements of people looking for where they don't pay. I mean, they vote with their feet in the traditional terminology of the fiscal federalism farm. So what we are going towards is the state rate, and I hope at some point in relation to this tax, which is actually controversial, there is fiscal competition, but what is not tax dumping, which is to abolish taxes to attract residents with greater capital; for when talking about assets, we have to talk about capital, not income. On the other hand, I also mean that this year, 20 percent of the types of property tax are lowered. Last year the PSOE still wanted to raise it to raise 40 million euros, and this year, about the drop, it only plans to raise 21 million euros, which also makes us think that the figures are not well made. Certainly, Mr. Sánchez's will I do not say that it is not good, if I would argue that this is his will, to do these things and not other things, that it is to endure in the presidency of the Government, but, in any case, all the official bodies have warned, from the European Union to Airef, to the Bank of Spain, that they look at the minimum wage, because a rise of that magnitude in a single exercise to which they can lead is the one that loses jobs precisely on Thursdays, which are being incorporated into the labour market, and which, therefore, they tend to be dealing with low wages. We certainly believe in giving opportunities to youth, but we have many doubts and we understand better that it can be contradictory as the Socialist Government proposes, and here in these budgets, as it has been for many years, a strong commitment to education and vocational training. Mr. Villares, you did say philosophy: the banks can wait, they can wait, but you can also wait because the bank funds you the debt you need to pay the payrolls. Of course, that game is interesting, they say, it's that no payroll is paid, and that's a boutade. That's what happened to Catalonia. In Catalonia the markets and banks said: wait for you, and the state had to go to the rescue and give him the money he asked for with the State guarantee so they could pay pay payrolls. So this is indeed a philosophy which, at last, would take us to unknown and certainly undesirable places. You've spoken several times, and I also invite you to go to the Commission where many people who talk to numbers on how health developments are going, and you're saying we're privatizing health. He also said we don't regret the unfortunate death of a person in the CAP, someone said it, which I did the first day I had occasion and which I repeat, obviously. But in any case, what I want to tell you about privatization is that since 2009 spending has increased by 92 million euros, 2.4%. It is true that this means that there was less spending, and that maybe if we rule it out there was less expenditure. In the Commission, some professionals said that there was no health care, but that it was found in professional payrolls, which is also an explanation for some discontent and certain demands at a time when the economy is growing, and that's why a professional career has been approved, which will make the next year 6% raise the payrolls of health professionals. [[Applause]] But what you can't say is we spend more on private health. If I came to the Commission, I would hear the representatives of private health complain bitterly because this government pays them less than the two-party government. It's just that with you, in the bipartisan government, 40% of the concerts went up, and we have almost the same, or slightly less than in 2009. Here, the only thing that asks for more private health is Vigo's mayor, a socialist badge, who also says that we have to give him what Vigo's private health demands, without any kind of previous conversation. Fortunately, we have a great advisor — straight-up — especially to negotiate the conflict. I know a few better people to negotiate the conflict, knowing the sector, than the current health advisor. He's meeting with all the unions today. You already know that you prefer to meet with collectives and not with unions, which are the democratic representatives of the workers. That's right, that's right. [[Protests.]] You guys had a meeting with workers yesterday, and we're going to the official and unique commission, therefore parliamentary, on health, and we've mentioned all the unions there, including the IGC, Mrs. Pontón. I don't know if you'll come to know what the IGC thinks about the health situation, but it would be convenient, it would be convenient... [[Applause]] In any case, I would like to remind you — because it is not a question either and it comes to the hair — that you have tabled an amendment that wanted to reduce the start of the farm to convene the trade union elections.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u29	But, well, that doesn't have anything to do with the unions either. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are going to vote on budgets, we are going to vote on growth, yes on the increase in social expenditure, yes on the increase in expenditure in R & D+i, yes on supporting exports, yes on supporting the entrepreneurship, yes on supporting the return of Thursdays to rural areas, but on supporting the increase in the budget of equality by 7.18%, on being one of the three autonomous communities that we maintain the non-contributory pensions, but on adding more resources to fight against gender violence, but on continuing to support the shipbuilding sector, on supporting the tourism sector, especially with the big happening of Xacobeo. Finally, we are going to vote on these budgets because we are convinced that they will, without triumphalism, continue on the way to a better Galicia. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Articulated debate
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u30	Thank you, Mr. Puy. We now move on to the joint debate, and to that end we begin with the round of parliamentary groups to explain their position on the Commission's ruling and, if so, to defend the amendments. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u31	Good morning to all and to all. Well, now we're close to the conclusion on today's two-month budget processing, which they come to show is what the real programmatic sheet of the People's Party is, which is the real roadmap they hide behind their words. Because the truth is that the paper supports everything, and these micros too, so the envelope in which these budgets were presented to us was very nice in appearance, but the reality — once made its detailed analysis in these two months — is very different. In the rhetoric that accompanied this debate we heard, and we came to do it in the morning, that the People's Party bets on public employment, which bets on basic services, but nothing further than reality. That's what numbers show, and that also shows the little letter that we are discussing now in the articulated, that set of rules that demonstrate what the real agenda of the Government of Nuñez Feijóo is. The agenda of a government without any new ideas, no country project, a stagnant government, in addition to the development of a roadmap that only obeys centralism and neoliberalism, and which is clearly behind the social majority and clearly in favour of a gradual abandonment of the public sector and, above all, of the basic public services that seem to have no brake. That is why once again the Galego Nationalist Block has developed this articulate, this roadmap that sustains the economic policy of the Government, and that we look at it as — as far as the global counties approach and are already at levels prescribed — the political decisions that sustain these budgets have no intention of recovering priorities that in their day were set aside with the excuse of the recession cycle. That's why we see its headlines say things, but the detail is different. This articulation reflects the continuity of that economic policy, and therefore we reject it again through, in this case, thirty-five amendments. Thirty-five amendments from which the People's Party, and I suppose no one will be surprised, did not accept any. He did not want to attend to or accept any of these two major issues: firstly, different priorities that mark the party of the Government; secondly, he also reflected the existence of an alternative model that would be possible to push, even with the limited framework of what we have been given. In the course of these debates, since the BNG we have not failed to point out these limited beacons which are, firstly, insufficient autonomic framework to develop our capabilities and, secondly, to insist again on an unfair financing system, which implies every year — according to the data of the last exercise — a loss of about 3,500 million euros for the Greek vessels. It's a pity Mr. Puy had left, but the truth is this is it's really gassy, but gassy of the bag, which has expired since 2014, and is getting less and less. Today, by 2019, the financing system is the same as it was ten years ago, that's the gasket of the suitcase they've applied to us. [[Applause]] But still, we believe that there is margin to make a different policy, and our amendments reflect that aspiration for change, change to an alternative that allows us to move forward in a defined country project, a Galicia of the future and in the future, which recovers public services, and in which the Administration fulfils that role as an engine to activate the country's economy, to begin with its own generation of employment and to continue with responsible economic decisions, which limit the resource of indebtedness and privatization, so that this public sector is the engine of recovery. I will therefore focus on two aspects which are fundamental to us, and which are also determined by this articulate and closely connected. First public employment, and according to basic services. I shall refer, firstly, together, to a battery of amendments that have in common to defend the interests of public workers in general. Both Title I, of staff costs, as well as several additional provisions, we present proposals diametrically opposed to the line that is following the People's Party, which is logical that it does not accept; it is logical, because what these amendments do is to expose the fallacy that the People's Party places on public employment, something that they repeated in the previous debate and that we see in press notes such as that of the Business Council. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]] Mr. Martínez, let me tell you that the truth is that they could well present them to a literary fiction prize, because they talk about more stability in public employment, more functionalization, and we have to say that it is radically a lie. It's a lie because neither increases public employment nor recovers many of the rights not only of wages but also of work organization, etc., such as those collected in the Fifth Collective Convention, which re-suspend in this articulation and so on. And the data speaks for themselves. If we look at the evolution of Galician board staff and look at the data from the Business Council — not the BNG — what do we see if we look at that data? Well, two questions that seem very serious to us. First, confirmation that the Government of Nuñez Feijóo has served in these years to reduce public employees and employees. The staff in the service of the Community fell into nearly 2,000 people, when we compared January 2009 to the last recent date in July 2017 -- that's the reality -- two thousand jobs minus. And secondly — and very important — we see that, moreover, this situation is not attributable — or only — to the economic recession, but rather to the premeditated roadmap of the People's Party. I'm no longer going back to 2009 -- I'm leaving it to the People's Party -- but by 2019 it's going to drop the number of workers and civil servants. And tell him the budgets, I don't say it: from 2018 to 2019 there will be a descent; that's the reality. And one might wonder what the explanation is, why this happens. And the reality is that we draw the conclusion is that it is a premeditated roadmap of the People's Party, because its economic model is not interested in having a strong public sector that not only serves as an incentive for social equality, but also serves as an incentive for the private company to look there and they approve rights. And the sample is temporality, and I'm going to stop explaining this a little bit. The truth is, sometimes, when we talk about temporality, because it seems that we all unconsciously think about private business. But the truth is that over the past few years we can conclude that with Mr. Núñez Feijóo in front of Galician Union has become a champion of temporality. That's what hides the small letter of the evolution of public employment: while the figures of the statutory staff have fallen, career and work staff have done, it has increased timeliness, because it has grown the temporary staff, the temporary staff, and also the temporary staff. That's the reality. In short, despite the fact that the initial budget reaches the prescribed level, and that means more resources, there is no bet on the public sector, in general, and public procurement in particular. And this has consequences. It has clear consequences in the second big aspect that concerns us in this articulate, which are public services, because neither teaching nor health nor others can be sustained without people, that is absolutely impossible. And, therefore, we see that there is no bet to shield public services, as they sell us in their propaganda. That is why we amend, among others, Article 9, which for us is the article of deficit or infamy, that article which is intended for obedience to the rhythms that mark us from the state to pay a debt that we do not generate; an antisocial and self-government article, before which we demand that, at least, if we take decisions taken under the economic-financial balance, which do not apply to basic public services. So they shield themselves and not follow the strategy of the People's Party, where they must understand that armor is to put cement in health centers and schools closing them down. And, one more year — focusing on teaching — we have deleted some aspects that seem worrying to us and that deepen in this line. Home!, Mr. Martínez, I think we may have time to debate at other times when I have to be saying repeatedly that I am not integer; just like you don't like the analysis we have from the BNG. But -- as I've already insisted -- a little cognitive ability we have, a little bit, not as much as you do, but something. [[Applause]] By continuing, referring specifically to the question of education, we have amended the question of Article 30 one more year, which comes to appreciate the progressive temporality that is being installed in this public service. We also insist: 2019 will have fewer staff teachers than 2018; that says the letter of budgets, we don't say so. We also amend matters that affect interinternity. We understand that there is a need to deepen the reduction in the real interim rate and not to continue to comply with having more than twice as much as ten years ago. We also welcome once again amendments that go against the privatization of this public service, so one more year we amend the issue of concerts. Let's remember that this government has already imposed them until 2023, they have passed the Fraga doctrine, and then they set us up for a duration longer than the LOMCE and higher than that of this own legislation. They must be afraid that in 2020 they will not continue to govern and therefore want to leave everything tied and well tied. But there is an area, on the emptying line of public services that is applying the People's Party, which is particularly sensitive. I know you don't like the People's Party, but we're going to insist here too on health care, because it's a fundamental aspect to which this articulate affects. Povervisa and the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital should be examples that already speak for themselves so that the People's Party would accept our Amendment No 22, which seeks to put a stop to public-private collaborations in all areas, in all areas. But I want to focus mainly on health care, because it's the paradigm of which is that hidden agenda of the People's Party and where we're going. Because abuse of public-private partnerships has consequences: they serve to progressively empty the control function of our administration and also compromise our economic and political decisions of future generations. And that's neither fair nor responsible. You frequently discuss the words of the professionals — those who want to listen, others don't even take the trouble anymore — who discuss what the patients say, they discuss what the union forces say, what we say the groups, but they also have objective reports, such as the Board of Auditors, which show Sergas' loss of public character. That's what we have to do calmly, because where we're going we leave a very delicate situation in our public health. And the fact that it had increased three times the concerted spending more than the public spending shows that it's not the proper roadmap. In the period 2009-2018 there are already EUR 2 billion to concerts with private entities. And the reality is, if we put an overview on the health service, if we look at ambulance services, electronic medical history, telecommunications, the pre-quota phone, it's obscene the amount of services that are already delivered to private hands. I could spend the fifteen minutes of my intervention just explaining this. That's why with our Amendment No. 22 we want to prevent this line from continuing to be a bottomless bag. That's why we propose that these mechanisms cannot be used to finance basic public services. We are also committed to strengthening public procurement, as we have done throughout this debate. We have to anticipate problems and not cause them. That's also what professional collectives are saying, and that's in the opposite direction of what the People's Party is doing in this articulate. It is a shame they would not — I insist — rectify this part of the budgets or the previous state of expenditure, as they have done with some matter of the Accompanying Law. Because they should rectify their health policy from the top to the bottom, as well as their staff policy. Whoever alerts is not a traitor, and the sector has long been warning that in the coming years, there will be at least 40% medical staff retirements in the next decade. So they have to get ready for that path, because an important part of the problems we're seeing today come from a lack of staff, but not because there's not in our own country and around it, too, in many trained personal emigrants with the ability to integrate into this system, but because the policy that you implement in the field of personnel is going the opposite direction. So today we want to ask them — before time runs out — to listen a little to the street. We insist once more. I remembered that when we started this debate, almost two months ago, I brought the collation, in an intervention that we had, that precisely at the end of last week there had been mobilizations in Moaña, there were mobilizations also in Rubiá defending the maintenance of posts in public health, and the truth is that this weekend we saw many others: in Cambados, in Moaña, etc. And so that's the reflection of what's happening in this country, they're not isolated cases, as you'd like to say, but it's a question that's a serious and first-order social problem. The conclusion we're seeing is that you look the other way not out of pride -- that too -- that you think you're right, not because you're not used to listening -- that you're also -- but because this really obeys a calculated roadmap. But we have to say, through these amendments to the articulation and through this whole budget debate process, that we will not allow it by giving it our support. That's why we reflect on these amendments that there is an alternative and that would be able to design another model of country that you want to impose on us. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u33	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, I feel a certain envy of the previous debate when there was discussion — at least — about philosophy. Because the qualification on the debate we are going to have now that was made by the spokesperson of the People's Party in the Commission was textually "damaged garbage", which is probably also a way of understanding philosophy, but that is certainly not the way to understand the philosophy that the Socialist Group — and I think the left as a whole — can share. The final profit data of the Spanish financial system in 2017 were published in the media: EUR 18. billion, 1.5 % of gross domestic product. And yesterday a conspiring representative of the economic right of this country — despite his name — John de Zulueta, president of the Circle of Entrepreneurs, delighted us with, at last, dazzling. He said, "There aren't so many rich in Spain." And, of course, the accounts do not come out, because GDP is what it is, 1.1 billion euros, we are one of the three countries in Western Europe with the greatest inequality, labour incomes lose weight within that GDP against the income of capital, tax collection focuses on employment incomes and is 8 points lower than in the European Union as a whole. So, if there are not so many rich, where are the funds of that gross domestic product from Spain?, where are they? [[Applause]] I think it's an absolutely legitimate reflection. A reflection to which, by the way, the People's Party — the Spanish right as a whole — has, since that shameful political action that characterizes it, never answers, never answers to who governs or what interests it defends. We maintain that it defends certain interests and that it governs for some certain individuals. He ruled for those who in the newspapers on the right of Madrid enthusiastically applauded Mr Rajoy's economic measures and who now — John de Zulueta, among them — fiercely criticise the economic measures of the Government of Pedro Sánchez; therefore they rule for someone. And the budgets of the Galician Union, saving the distances and understanding the competences of Autonomy, respond without any doubt to these strategic interests on the right when ruling. I was saying in the Commission and reporting before we go into the amendments in detail on the five fundamental lines of action that we believe a left-wing government should promote in solving what the economic problems are, of course, but also social and redistributive problems in this country. And, of course, I agree with the People's Party: the first way to fight inequality is employment. So far I agree. It's true that from here I'm going to disagree radically. But, of course, job insecurity has to be tackled and quality employment has to be promoted. And, by the way, you have to get decent wages for everyone. And an increase of 22% of the minimum inter-professional wage is about to see new unskilled people expelled from the labour market. But what's true is that it dignsifies the country and the Spanish labour market, says what the People's Party says, its Zing Zangs of Madrid, that the truth is to recognize that business funding gives of itself infinitely, because it looks like Zing Zangs of right in this country, and some and others, and day after day, and you take Expand or Five Days and it's a real constant battery of creation of pseudoscience, because it's pseudoscience, legitimizing a determined political and economic model. [[Applause]] And, unfortunately, I would like to say that -- I don't know if the counselor is going to intervene, but since he's so interactive with the voices above all on the left -- he has told us about this, of all these issues, that he would tell us what he thinks, because the truth is that when he comes out here he tells us many numbers, that I can share or not, but tell us very little about what he thinks about these issues. So — I insist — we agree: the first block, quality work, employment, and quality employment. And the second block, and very related to this -- and here the right already weakens a little more -- is an equitable distribution of wealth through wages. Of course, I would like to see that in this country there was no need for social policies, which would redistribut the income and well-being of citizens in second place — as it were in some way. But the problem is that wages do not, the problem is that the weight of gross domestic product wages in Spain and Galicia is systematically low. And the bad news is that the recovery period after the year 2014 is not recovered. So we understand that collective bargaining and at least a very relevant part of Mr. Rajoy's reform is essential to eliminate them, because — I know there are no miracles in economics or politics, I think there are miracles in almost nothing except in the Bible — in any case, what it is true that it helps, without any doubt, that this division materializes itself. And with the third point -- and here we've already said that we're moving away a little bit more -- it's about getting a tax collection system that is going on more in a fairer way and with a more redistributive perspective, and that we're loading more fiscally the revenues of the capital and the heritage -- we call it as we call it, I don't care if it's the heritage, if it's the successions -- finally, we all understand what we're talking about, I don't think it's necessary to need too much -- because what's true is that Spain is 8 points below in terms of fiscal pressure than the European Union average, and so there's someone who's paying less than other similar in Austria or the German Federal Republic. Everything seems to indicate that the workers are not, because there are only others left. To me, right, the third state, that's over. So the system is clearly unfair, it needs to be improved. And the fourth point is the fruit of the other two; i.e., that, as wealth is not distributed via wages, because negotiation is absolutely asymmetric, and the weak tax system, we understand that this fairer tax system is essential to strengthen the state of well-being. And here we could talk about health, and we could talk about education, and we could talk about pensions and dependency and unemployment insurance. We could talk about everything that helps society be more egalitarian to correct what wages fail. I think that even here, at last, it would be pretty good that we all agree, but unfortunately it's not. And the fifth point — and last point and, of course, I am talking about the amendments we tabled, because the amendments that we tabled are clearly inserted into this intended argumental thread — has to do with achieving a more equal society; of course, more equality between men and women. In fact, I have been listening for a long time in this Parliament, and I also hear it with satisfaction — I have to say — the need for all political groups to go together in the same direction as they fight against gender-based violence. I'm worried about the Popular Party's cocktail with Vox in Andalusia, I'm worried. Because from that moment on, I hope this speech... is worrying about me, what do you want me to tell them? [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u34	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u35	Well, I see that I don't care about myself, I see that I don't care about myself, which I'm glad about. So that more egalitarian society in terms of gender and class terms, because classes exist, there are genres and there are classes — that is a diagram of double entry that is quite easy to understand: there are poor men and poor women and rich men and rich women— that argumental line is inserted within the amendments that we present, which were the "damages garbage", the seventy-nine, of which they accepted four — if they were the least garbage we presented, the People's Party accepted four, dealt one another, and we withdrew one by one technical problem to us — they were inserted into four blocks, which respond to this argumental thread. The first has to do with the macroeconomic context itself, and it's basically Amendment 32. It's about taking advantage of the deficit margin. I think it's perfectly legitimate to take advantage of it. The counsellor says no. I don't know if you're telling me it's not legitimate or you're telling me I don't know about it, you probably gave me the second thing, but I'm going to persevere anyway. I think taking advantage of the deficit margin is a perfectly defensive issue, I don't think it's a ruptureist, I think it's not Soviet collectivism, it has nothing to do with the Cambodian red Khmers, we're inside the most absolute European financial orthodox. So I don't know very well why it's not done, except so that Mr. Feijóo can say he's a great manager. Because then it's true that, while we don't take advantage of that deficit margin, we have very strong budget execution problems. I know that part of it has to do with the reporting of funds coming from outside of the Self-Government itself, and therefore also with the justification for spending agents outside the Union, etc. But when you make a budget change of 140 million euros on December 31, 2017 to pay your debt, to what you used to say about embarrassing ideology, we have to add a bad management, a bad management. The second block. In the public funds, those that we should raise with a redistributive fiscal policy — a lifelong Marxist anathema, but I also think perfectly defended from orthodoxy — it is essential to optimize the use of public funds, it is essential to transfer that information to Parliament. There are several specific cases, one about artistic heritage and the need that, if there are public funds to maintain artistic heritage, there is a public use — first, free — much easier. The subject of concerted education, of which I repeat, in order to avoid mantra, is not against. We understand when it was created and why. We are not in favour of distorting the objective of concerted education, which was to cover public education deficits at certain times, in certain areas. Unfortunately, now that half the children born 20 years ago are born, the problem is smaller. The third block has to do with transparency and the good government, it has to do with the staff of the cabinet, it has to do with the attendance of the board of directors, it has to do with what the public image is about. For example, it is not highly recommended for the President of the Board to say in Parliament that why the mayor of Vigo did not buy the bulbs of the Christmas lighting in Galicia and the brought them from Genile Bridge. Because there was a contest that won a Genile Bridge company. It is clear that Mr Feijó's ultra-nationalist seizure of Mr Feijó to me struck me like this for a while, but — I repeat again — is very good, it is very good to demagogy until he breathes, but it is good to fulfill the contracts and, above all, it is appropriate that in the training courses of Operation Zeta there are no intermediaries or achievers by means, because of the quality of democracy. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Fourth block, public services. Risk reinforcement. There is a very serious problem of chronicling poverty in this country, very serious. Homes with all their members in labor have since fallen to the highest 40%. But the incomeless homes, the weakest link in the chain, have dropped only 12%. They're there, they're almost 34,000 homes. So I think it's an insult, as long as the budget is expandable, that the goal of Risk is 10,000 beneficiaries. It seems to me an insult when there are 33,800 homes, according to EPA itself — and I don't invent the data — without income from the Autonomous Community of Galicia in the third quarter of 2018, as much as it contains us. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, chronicling poverty is a problem. The reinforcement of dependency is essential, with the lowest pensions in Spain and with a dispersed population with difficulties of access to huge public services. The social dimension of teaching is fundamental, in terms of free textbooks, in terms of scholarships and aids. Anyway, I think it's almost all said. The fifth block has to do with public employment. It is essential that public employees have a wage level and a level of stability that enables them to develop public services that favor that redistribution into the second level of income and wealth. Since they don't do it directly, because they don't do it, they do it by public services, and for that they have to have workers and workers in public services in optimal conditions. The sixth block, labor rights. We were talking earlier about that loss of weight of wages in GDP, which is evident, is greater in Galicia than in Spain as a whole, much greater than in the European Union as at 28. Anyway, the data is there. Timeliness — we talk a lot about demography. We need half the jobs of under 35 are temporary, those that are busy, given the level of occupation, which is already low. And then -- if you've talked a lot here -- the topic of Sergas, the topic of health, because we have to talk, yes, about the CAP of Road and Hepatitis C and the resignation of primary care chiefs in Vigo, of course, we have to talk, how will we not talk? I'd just be missing. It's just that we're talking about redistribution of income and we're talking about the welfare of citizens. I find it absolutely inconceivable that someone can say or think that there's no need to talk. And in the same way, in this field of labour rights there are the workers of the Fire Prevention Service, public education, school dining, of all that is progressively likely to go privatizing — let's call it whatever we want, but I think we all know what we're talking about. And the seventh block has to do with local corporations. It's basically about putting an end to that philosophy that the Board invites and the municipalities pay. It is transparency in the allocation of funds, objective criteria, that it is not stupid the last, because it is not stupid the last, it is privileged information the first. And that's the only one who explains that in 12 minutes the funds of the programs are covered. So, finally... I said it's not stupid the last, it's privileged information the first. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u37	And, of course, if there's another explanation, to my comrade Rodríguez Rumbo when he comes out here, and God gives it to him, with which I stay with what I think is most reasonable, which is this. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, you are so liberal and so speak of free competition and free competition, etc., etc., it's not wrong to warn your mayors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u39	...to be the first to order the projects and take them. It would be good if, at last, that of free competition had been for everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u40	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u41	It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u42	No, your time is up. Look at the clock, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u43	I look at the clock and thank you for your kindness, Mr. President. That's why...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u44	But it's just that, otherwise, today this plenary is going to be too long. Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u45	...of course the Socialist Party will not support these budgets.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u46	Thank you very much, thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u47	Good morning. We reaffirmed ourselves in the 50s and a amendment presented to the articulated text. I'm a challenge to the People's Party's budgetary strategy, which has proved to be a failure in all these years. They also define, in our view, the basic lines of an alternative model to the austerity policy of neoliberalism. We reaffirm in them because today's budget plan to approve the House's majority group insists on the wrong way that the Government Feijóo took when he occupied Galician Union in 2009. The compulsive austerity policy that began to apply in the 2010 budget was a link with serious consequences that we still pay: severe cuts in public services and social protection and a brutal increase in public debt. Until 2014 Junta cut its spending by more than 3,000 million euros, 30% of the budgeted expenditure in 2009. Less spending and more debt, because between 2009 and 2014 the public debt increased by 6 billion euros, 250%. This is the balance of austerity: the grave deterioration of the state of well-being, accompanied by an intrusion. That's the legacy that leaves us: deteriorating public services and a public debt, counsellor, unmanageable. An economic and budgetary policy failed in macroeconomic terms, which also caused enormous social pain in terms of unemployment, poverty, social exclusion and inequality. The other day I read in a newspaper -- some of it's called the economic miracle. We say it is an economic and social disaster caused by that policy of the People's Party. In the years of the double recession the crisis was the justification for the cuts. The official speech said that, in the face of the fall of income, there was no alternative other than to cut the expense. The falsity of this speech was demonstrated when in 2014 it changed the economic cycle; it changed the economic cycle in Europe, Spain, Cantabria, Burgos and Galicia. We've been in the expansion phase of the economy for five years, but we've continued with a budget policy to adjust public spending. You can say it's not economic, it's ideology. GDP estimated for 2019 is higher than 10 billion nominal euros by 2009, but nominal budget is 611 million euros below. This is the fundamental reason why In Marea rejects this budget, because it increases growth, it is not serving to improve the welfare of the majority of society. We have more wealth but less budget, more wealth but less public spending, more wealth but less resources to finance health, education, social protection, employment policy or investment. It is true that the formula has changed, but austerity follows. In the recession expenditure fell nominally; now it grows, but it does so below what GDP grows. We've passed a phase of hard adjustment to a phase of fine adjustment. The result, as Louis Villares well said this morning, is that the percentage of wealth that manages Galician Union falls. In terms of settled budgeting, 18.5 % of GDP in 2009; in terms of initial projected budgeting, 14,9 % for 2019. That's 3.6 points of GDP. I'll give you the bill: 2,400 million euros less public budget. That is why we say that the accist phase of the economic cycle is not being used to recover from the cuts applied in the recessive phase. It's all the opposite: become consolidated, chronicated, become permanent. This policy of consolidation of cuts has consequences. A paradigmatic example is the conflicts that go through Vigo's health these weeks, which perfectly synthesize the social distress in our country. The resignation of 80% of the primary health care service heads demonstrates the exhaustion, I would say the despair of people who have managed with enormous responsibility the lack of means until they could no longer. The grounds for resignation speak of their personal and professional decency. They don't want to be complicit in the unsustainable deterioration of the health system, they don't want to manage poverty. These are not words that this Member says. A resignation that indicates that ten years of austerity threaten to break social seams. [[Applause]] Public services, people who work in them, users of such services can no longer endure cuts and deterioration. He said it a few days ago here, in that commission that Mr. Puy once spoke of, the Chief Counsel. I'm going to say, textually, your words: there's insufficient resources to meet the real needs of the Greek health system. That's what the Board of Auditors says. And, of course, talking about health expenditure is talking about the budget set, because it accounts for 43% of the total expenditure per year. What happens in health is in education, attention to dependence and social exclusion: lack of resources, deterioration, management of poverty. I'm going to say it again: they're breaking their social seams. Ten years of austerity is too many. That's why we have to leave it behind and start recomposing, rebuilding public services and social protection. We say it with total clarity: it is essential, it is urgent an increase in public revenues, which obviously includes an increase in tax collection. Galicia doesn't have a public spending problem, we have an income problem. That is why we tabled these amendments to the articulated text, proposing a change in fiscal policy, because what is not paid with income is paid with cuts or more debt. Income increases — it is true — because it increases the taxable base of the different tax figures, but it increases less than the economy because of their fiscal policy. The cycle's alcist phase is not moving to a proportional increase in income. It does not do so because the fiscal policy of the Central Government and the Council of Galicia has as an obsessive principle to reduce taxes, despite the fact that the Spanish State has a tax pressure of eight points below the European Union average; we are next to Bulgaria and Romania and we are enormously distant from France or Denmark. The fiscal policy that has been applied in these years has a deep ideological conservative bias, because reducing taxes always benefits the richest and cutting public spending always harms the weakest, especially when what is defiscated is capital income, business profits and large estates. The 2019 budget is a clear example of this tax policy for the rich. The fundamental measure is to lower the property tax, i.e. the taxation of people with a heritage of more than EUR 700,000. This fiscal policy is part of a broader strategy, which is to reduce the public's weight in the economy: less income, less expenditure and thus deterioration in public services. I'm going to say it clearly: your premeditated option is to damage the public to open up space for the private business, to deteriorate as an alibi to privatize. [[Applause]] This is the key to the neoliberal policy imposed by the crisis: the more health care, public education, attention to dependent people, the more private business advances in providing those services. It's not a conspiracy theory. The former Rajoy Government put it in writing in the stability programme 2018-2021 that it presented in the European Union, in which the Rajoy Government undertook to reduce public spending from 41% of the current GDP from 2017 to 38.6%; it is 2.4 points of GDP less, of spending cut, which Rajoy and Montoro committed. These are EUR 35,000 million less, and the cuts, when analyzed the memory that accompanied it, were mainly focused on the function of health and the function of education. That is why we tabled these fifty-one amendments — they were fifty-two, but one was approved, voted in favour of the People's Party — because, in view of the resignation, the cuts and the permanent adjustment, we said that the fifth year of the acquittal phase should be the time to reorient the budgetary strategy. Fifty-one amendments, and I'm going to talk about some of them, because they have two goals. The first is to increase public income and the second is to defend public services. To increase revenue, we present an amendment battery, from 38 to 41 and 49, with the quantified goal of getting 400 million euros more within a multi-annual plan that will allow the level of income before recession and austerity to be recovered at the end of the next legislation. For this we propose four different axes. The first is an increase in resources from the State, acting on the model of self-financing and also on instruments for territorial rebalancing. The second is a package of tax measures aimed at increasing the collection of own and assigned taxes, acting on tax figures that already exist and creating new ones. The third axis we propose is a selective and weighted minority of the current level of tax benefits, bonuses and exemptions; it seems obvious that, if the tax benefits in the year 2019 budget are 490 million euros, it is possible to reduce them by acting on taxpayers with higher income, thus improving not only the system's adequacy but fiscal equity. And the fourth point is a reinforced plan for inspection and fight against tax fraud. The second objective of our amendments is to defend public services in the face of the privatizing attacks they are suffering. To this end, we present the amendments from 15 to 30, referring to the improvement of the working conditions of persons providing public services; Amendment 33, designed to avoid public-private collaboration contracts; Amendments 34, 35 and 36, aimed at preventing the increase in concerted educational centres and eliminating concerts that are sex-segregated. It's fifty-one amendments to increase income and improve public services, responding to the demands of citizenship. We can't and don't want to resign ourselves to the deterioration of the public, as the Galician Union seems to do. I'm going to say a few words from President Feijóo that almost made me tender. In the face of Vigo's health conflict, President Feijóo said: we do what we can, which implies implicit recognition that no more means can solve the problems. We need more means, more income, more resources. That's the key, because unless Feijóo's regrets lead us to frustration or melancholy. There's a lot at stake. We've had ten years of austerity, and people can't. They're tearing down the social seams. The malaise of citizenship is causing disaffectation in democratic institutions. We need more income to fund an economic policy that drives a model of growth based on the productive economy and that that greater wealth is transferred to a greater well-being of citizenship, fighting inequality, precariousness, poverty and exclusion. Counsellor, we have the right to live in a better country, to have stable and decent jobs, to regain quality levels of public services, to have better social protection for pensioners, unemployed people, dependent people. We must fight to reduce poverty and inequality. We have the right to have a public protection network that ends with rejections or energy poverty. I'm going to say it in one word: we have the right to live in a fairer country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u48	Thank you, Mr. Lago. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u49	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. The truth is that I want to start by apologizing for a term that I used in the commission to refer to amendments, because I called them "damaged garbage," and I may not like the opposition, and I want to apologize, because I believe that Members have the obligation to use Greek according to the regulations, and therefore they are not "damaged garbage", they are "damaged garbage"; "damaged garbage" are those that would make Galicia much worse. [[Applause]] "Spare amendments" is, for example, proposing that the Administration does not have paper and pens as of 1 January 2019. "Spare amendments" is to propose that the administration be incommunicado and that there be no resources for telephone, telegraphic or digital communications from the public administration. "Spam amendments" is that those who have increased their spending by 40% in cabinets now question what this government spends, which is 40% less than you spent, even more so when ruling the Socialist Party in Madrid and spending by 40% more than the Government of Mariano Rajoy. That's hypocrisy, and we, of course, do not agree with any of that. Look, basically the summary of this debate is the following: those who have not done their homework come to criticize those who have approved the subject. Those who rule in Spain and have not even presented draft budgets criticise those who today, on 18 December, we approve here the budgets of the Council of Galicia for the coming year, which will come into force on 1 January. That's the criticism of the Socialist Party and the Weirlands. Look, we're certainly not going to commune with mill wheels. The BNG, in fact, finally recognizes that this government has a road map. Of course we have it, we know where we came from, and we know where we're going. For the BNG — this is the modernity of nationalism — drinking Fanta is rich, and that's why what was worth 1 euro before they want from 1 January 2019 value 9. Are you kidding? But really, are you kidding? We're accused of cutting public employment in Galicia. Look, troops, year 2008, 86,858 public workers in Galicia; year 2018, 86,995; 125 more, indeed. But do you know what happened during these years of crisis in other administrations where that magnificent left was ruling? Andalucía Board, 12,000 public employees less than at the beginning of the crisis. But what lessons are coming to us, what lessons are coming to us! You're talking about health. Look, we're very proud of what we do about health. You know why? Because the budgets of the Galician Health Board for next year grow by 3.3%, and we're talking about 126 million euros more than this year. That's the difference between what we did and what they didn't do. And for what? In order to allocate EUR 10 million to the new hospital in Ferrol, to allocate EUR 12 million to the expansion of the great Montecelo, to add EUR 12.6 million to the new performances in health centres, EUR 1 million for the capital plan of the hospital in Coruña, EUR 1.5 million for the new Faculty of Medicine, EUR 1.5 million for the reform of the hospital in Barbanza, EUR 5 million for the director plan of the hospital in Ourense — which will ultimately invest EUR 64 million — EUR 5.25 million for the integral health centre of the residential district in Lugo, EUR 33 million for hospital pharmacy, EUR 11 million for improving and strengthening attention to chronicity and demographic ageing. We are working all over for better and better health, and those who have never done anything will not teach us absolutely anything. [[Applause]] Mr. Losada, I have to tell you that propaganda is very good, but Galicia is below the European average of inequality and much more below the average of Spain. That's the reality. So I'd like you to use the data correctly. Look, we're just as worried about work as you, both of us. Of course, our service sheet is impeccable by comparing it with the service sheet of the Socialist Party. You left the Government of Spain about six million unemployed; you, in your last year in front of the Bipartite, 50,000 more unemployed, between 2008 and 2009. That's the reality. What did we do? Lower the unemployment rate. Between 2013 and 2014, 19,000 unemployed less; between 2014 and 2015, 23,000 unemployed less; between 2015 and 2016, 22,800 unemployed less; between 2016 and 2017, 20,900 unemployed less; between 2017 and 2018, 18,000 unemployed less. As for the year, 16,800 unemployed less. We're talking about 120,000 unemployed less throughout this period, he likes it or doesn't like it. [[Applause]] So, concerned about employment and the quality of employment, that's what we're dealing with, we've been working on that task for ten years. And you say he's worried about Andalusia. Look, what you should worry about is that Andalusia is from the communities with the highest rates of gender-based violence in all of Spain. That's the reality -- he didn't talk about it, he didn't talk about it -- of the highest in all Spain. And, therefore, we're going to continue working on a roadmap that aims to improve social policy. Look, funds devoted to social inclusion by the Galician Council: when you were in government in 2009, your last budget was 66.4 million euros; 2018, 115 million euros; we're talking about a 67% increase. That's our commitment to social policy; not to speech, eh!, to evaluated facts with budgets. Income from Galician social integration. You worry about him. It's that when you were ruling you were spending 23 million euros; this year it's going to be 64 million euros; three times more, we're multiplying three times the cost in Galicia's social integration income. What lessons would you like to teach us, Mr. Losada? What lessons would you like to teach us? [[Applause]] Mr. Lago, he says Galician indebtedness is out of hand. Well, you have to know that, if we had listened to your party and to the previous party, before, when it was called AGE, if we had heeded it, Galicia would be indebted to EUR 1 billion more. So you're now proposing the opposite of what they've proposed in recent years. Ah, AGE has nothing to do with you! [[Murmurs.]] But are they or aren't they? Don't take our hair off, Mr. Lago, are they or aren't they? Are you AGE's heirs, are they the same or aren't they? And, by the way, questioning the commitment to the health of the People's Party, from a party that invites people not to vaccinate and that they say what they say from their own ranks, is to pry people, Mr. Lago. They're dissipating, I've told them on one occasion, they do Galicia a favor, they're dissipating, because since then from this weak chamber they do it every time they open their mouths. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, this group today could resolve this debate with a very brief and very simple reflection, and it's just that, starting from false premises, the most normal thing is to get to conclusions that are also wrong and also false. The three opposition groups have brought back to this debate an unrealistic proposal which, from our point of view, has nothing to do with Galicia's current needs. His roadmap was perfectly clear throughout this morning: more taxes, more debt, more deficits. That's what you propose for the future of Galicia. We, of course, believe that the road map shouldn't be that. The budget debate is of little concern to you. They have systematized to present the same amendments every year. Next year we'll talk about exactly the same thing again. You don't care what we explain to you that your initiatives, your amendments, contravene basic state regulations. You don't care what we've explained to you that this would be agile and would weaken the management capacity of the Greek administration's public services. You don't care what we explain to them that their proposals would make public services worse. You don't care what we explain to you that this would affect the viability of our Community's public accounts. You even present amendments that we have already approved in the debate of the previous year and that are already incorporated into this year's articulate, and it does not matter to you again, proof that at this debate I think you have very little time. You come here with a speech, a mantra, which is the mantra of the knee. That's what you like about the knee. Mr Losada, you are saving to enter this issue, because in Vigo, zero proposals, zero amendments to the accepted opposition. Therefore, leave the theme of the knee for others, because of the knees who know best in Galicia is a lord named also Losada, but it's Abel. Look, you don't care about your speech, you don't care that your proposals are not -- I apologize for the mistake -- applicable, you don't care that your proposals are not appropriate, you don't care that your proposals are not beneficial to our services, and you even don't care that they're not legal -- just present, defend them the same. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because you don't care about anything Galicia. What matters to you is to be able to come here and come with that speech on the knee of most. Blessed knee!, which prevents us from paralyzing the Government of Galicia, which is its proposal, from 1 January 2019. Still, we try to accept amendments from opposition groups. We accept four amendments from the Socialists, which we understand technically improve writing; in addition, we propose a transaction. And, on the other hand, we also proposed a transaction to En Marea, about the periodicity and format of information sent to this House. The People's Parliamentary Group has tabled three amendments. The first is a clarification of the criteria for the adequacy of appointments in the executive bodies of the instrumental entities dependent on the Council of Galicia. The second is a maturing on the costs of teaching staff and investigators and the administration of the Greek university system. And the third, a modification in which it is envisaged that, in cases of supra-municipal emergency services, in the secondary biomass management tracks, when it is agreed upon by the Board that it acts, the appropriations for the municipalities will be transferred to the competent councillor. I think, after listening to them, I have to tell you that your speech rejects the apocalyptic vision that you handle from Galicia. So bad, so bad, so bad are these budgets that then, in presenting amendments, in the resources devoted to health care, the Socialist Party proposes to increase by 1.6%. Home!, shouldn't be so bad when they only add 1.6% increase; we're going up the health game by 3.3%; it shouldn't be so bad. So bad, so bad, so bad is public education that since the Galician Nationalist Block they ask that the resources allocated to public education, and that they would fix the bad situation of education, are an increase of 0.4%. How bad they must be! And the Risk, which is scarce resources!, and that's why from the Tides they propose an increase of 0.6%. That's the little opposition Galicia has at the moment, an opposition that certainly wants this administration to function paralysed. And, in the end, what is a summary of your proposal? A new fiscal flavor for the Greeks. There's something that the opposition parties agree on, which is to raise taxes. Galego Nationalist Block, Potem tides and the Socialist Party want the Greeks to pay 464 million euros more than taxes. BNG wants to raise taxes amounting to EUR 190 million; the Socialist Party, EUR 123 million; and the Power Tides, EUR 150 million plus, 96 in increments and EUR 53 million in deduction eliminations. That's the model of this opposition. That's right, you don't clarify how much more you'd get in every thing and in the concept of that. It is paradigmatic the formula for the elimination of deductions posed by the Tides of Podemos. They indicate, for example, in Chapter 110 on inheritance tax, that tax benefits amounting to EUR 46 million are eliminated. And I ask you, Mr. Lago: to whom? to whom? Because these bonuses are for children who inherit from their parents. To them? These bonuses are for disabled people. To them? These bonuses are for the transmission of companies that favor intergenerational transfer. 46 million euros that you intend to raise more by eliminating these benefits to the disabled, to children who inherit from your parents and to businesses that pass between parents and children. [[Murmurs.]] All right, congratulations, that's your model; of course, it's not our model. They also propose from this group to lower tax benefits, around 5 million euros in IRPF. Where? To whom? In the deduction by persons with disabilities equal or above 65 years of age who need the help of third parties? Those are the bonuses you want to eliminate? Or those of the birth of new children? Or those of the numerous families? I hope that in the replica shift we'll clear it up. They also want to eliminate another 2 million euros from the tax benefits of property transmissions and documented legal acts. That's your model, a model lacking rigour. They propose new taxes knowing that in the end who will pay that new charge are the users, the citizenship set, and thus charging more to everyone, regardless of income. And so that's the model you're proposing. We have a solvent model and an accredited model, a model that has proven to work over the last ten years. Evidence of this is that Galicia grows, Galicia grows more than the whole of Spain; proof of this is that Galicia creates jobs, creates more jobs than Spain; proof of this is that Galicia exports, exports more than ever; proof of this is that we have a more internationalized economy; proof of this is that we have consolidated public services and meeting the demands of citizenship. It would be nice to leave demagogy at home, leave demagogy for those internal party debates...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u51	...for those meetings that end up kicking off, for those assemblies where they discuss every day whether or not they load the spokesperson. [[Murmurs.]] It would be nice to talk about Galicia seriously, but also from the opposition. We, of course, have a commitment, we have a commitment to Galicia that votes for us and not to that which does not vote for us. We have a commitment to Galicia that votes for us but also to Galicia that votes for you. And the commitment is that Galicia continues to grow, not to play what we're achieving among all; not the government, because the government is one more agent. But, of course, what's shown is that it's much better to have budgets than to have them. And, therefore, we are here doing our duties...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u53	...that's what it's all about. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u54	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u55	Good day again. Well, tell Mr. Tell me we're kidding. I don't know. Home, we take these debates very seriously, Mr Tellado. Who should be joking is you, who came here to release a series of mantras from the last argumentary that they sent him, which must have been that of the elections of Andalusia, because I see him a little obsessed, which even to the BNG answers him with Andalusia. And he comes to make jokes about Fantas and I don't know what. [[Applause]] Well, all right, but explain to me why your calculations are going to be better grounded than those that led to BNG based on population and consumption forecast. In any case, he said: they will discuss it later in the debate of the Law on tax measures; and we have spoken enough in these previous debates. But, look, I'm just going to set an example of his disorientation as to social policy. It's in those little details where you really don't believe in changing the social model and there's a correction to inequality. To me it seems incredible to me that the People's Party's obsession with assuming risk requests, as if it were something good to have many risk requests in this country!, as if it were something good — and as they have done in previous budgets — has to resort to budgetary changes to increase risk count! It's just that this is the symptom of a very serious social problem. I don't think they should beat their chests with that question. Then the strategy of the People's Party is to come here saying that the opposition lies, because we already know that absolute truth is in the hands of the People's Party and that absolute knowledge too; what we say others are airs that give us the head when we get to this Parliament. But, look, total staff — data from the Business Council, Galego Institute of Statistics — from January 2009 to July 2017, here we are seeing is: 2009, 89,299; 2017, 87,377. That's the reality. I was the last time I went to math class 89,000 was above 87,000, I don't know if anything has changed. Evolution of temporary staff, increases 16%; interim, 67%; temporary work, 116%! That's just the reality. You don't take advantage of public employment as an engine for development, but to bring the temporality of inter-internity into practice, too. That's what they've been doing for the past decade, and there's no excuse, because you can come here saying that it was during the recession, but now that this recession cycle is over — that they're so beat in the chest with that question — does not take advantage of the growth of the macroeconomic framework to correct the trend. I put examples in my first 2018 data intervention, budgets, and 2019 data intervention. I insist — taking advantage of the education advisor here —: forecasting in budgets — source: staff annex to the budgets of the Galician Union, of the volumes we all have in our offices —: 2018, teachers, 30,180; 2019, forecasting, 30,069. It's less. There's no way to get it. You can keep looking on the sheets, which you won't find. And this is another symptom that comes directly into the articulate of what economic policy is that they support. And we see their results in other ways as well. You talked about work. I don't know if the IGE does like me and doesn't find out, but, seeing the weight of wages in the Welsh GDP, it's reached the lowest point in the series in 2017, the lowest since you've been in government. It's just that reducing the weight of wages in the gross domestic product has only one explanation: who pays is the working class. That is the case, Mr Tellado — look how they look — to camouflage reality. And we in these amendments and in this debate insist on a question: it's not just about producing and increasing the gross domestic product, but about seeing how the effort is distributed and how the wealth is distributed. And everything indicates that the consolidation that this framework of work, this economic framework, is leading to the consolidation of precariousness and so on, are symptoms and already cornerstones of this system, and therefore we understand that it requires radical change. And that also has its translation into basic public services. I insist on the question of health, which has been central to this debate, because the debate around this issue is central to the economic aspect too, and I set an example. Throughout this articulation, we also included amendments that were aimed at budgetary control and planning, which is also well demonstrated that you do not do it well and that you always end up using the Continent Fund to pay predictable expenses. One of the last reports we received from the Contingency Fund because it was precisely to take 31 million to pay Sergas staff. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]] That means two things: that you're planning badly and that the financing system and the economic relationship we have with the state is insufficient, because we can't afford to pay our basic public services. So, you can continue in the San Caetano ivory tower denying reality, but of course, what you can't pretend is that we comply with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u57	And, therefore, we will continue to insist on this and on the debates they carry out, because we certainly do not communicate with mill wheels, Mr Tellado. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, the truth is, I'm pretty naive, because, I really thought, Mr. Tellado, that I would apologize for "dirty amendments," I have to admit that I thought I'd apologize. Because it's true that I, even if I think so, of what you can introduce would never say, and therefore it seemed to me that it should be part of the excitement of the debate. But, well, I see no, which was a structural issue, which shows, at last, what we all know. I'm so sorry that you talked so little about inequality and poverty. Of inequality to tell us practically that this is the most egalitarian country in the European Union, earthly paradise. And of poverty, for not a word, not a job quality, not wages, not at all, not at all a word. But, well, he didn't mention that he ruled the most voted list, nor did he talk about the loser coalitions. The truth is, I don't satisfy my political expectations at all, which were very high, as always when you intervene. Look, if we did something about health? Do you know what we've done, Mr. Tellado? In 1986, a law of public health, universal and free, which you voted against. That's what we did! That's what we did, Mr. Tellado! [[Applause]] And you know why they voted against it, right? For they that supported them were ended in business; therefore tell us, if not, why. Well, maybe Povervisa, too. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, I know very well who defends Povervisa. Whenever you want, we discuss Povervisa. [[Murmurs.]] You can bring an initiative here and we're discussing Povervisa. Because we have Madrid, we have the Valencian Country, we have Balearics; in Balearics, that hospital made by the Vigo system, which, if you remember, had promoted President Antioch, but what is in prison is President Matas, by putting his hand on it; the truth is that there must be recognition that Mr. Antioch was quite skilful: to promote him and get him to be imprisoned to Matas; it sounds like the black novel. What we did was to defend public health. You may ask Mr. Lasquetty, now a flaming head of office of his top boss, as is the defense of public health in Madrid, selling them to speculative funds not the management of hospitals, but the ownership of hospitals, which must then be paid with public money to buy them back. Hey, really, can you guys talk about health? But you don't give them a little shame, do you? Well, right? [[Applause]] Well, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing to me. He doesn't give me anything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u60	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u61	Look, another question: if I'm worried about Andalusia. In Andalusia I'm worried about a lot of things, I've been worried about at certain times and I'm worried about a lot of things. Now I'm very worried about one, and everything seems to indicate that for the first time the extreme right will be in a government in Spain. I'm worried about that. I'm worried about that! [[Murmurs.]] If so, I'm worried. Democratically, but I'm worried, what do you want me to say? And, of course, taking into account what were the loser coalitions and the governments of the most voted lists, because I'm worried twice. [[Murmurs.]] I'm double worried. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u62	Silence, please, silence. He's in the use of the word. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u63	I was silent at Mr. Tellado's intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u64	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u65	Besides, I solemnly promised.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u66	That's right. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u67	Well, look, you're talking here -- and I made us a story, year by year, about the fall of unemployment in Galicia, which I never questioned, Mr Tellado. I never questioned the fall of unemployment. I'm the only one who said that the German labour market is language and that there are 70,000 less busy than when Mr Feijóo entered the government, and that the fall of unemployment is undoubtedly due to the creation of jobs — it's obvious — but another very important part has to do with demographic characteristics. And you should know, but, well, apparently you don't. Look, the differences are so great that in 2009 the difference between the occupation rate between Galicia and Spain was 1.4 points and now it is 3.7 points; i.e. in the recovery we are going out much worse than the set of Spain, without already entering the average wages, at last, on all these issues of which you are talking — if you allow me the expression, I'm not going to say without rigor, that I don't want to look too much like the Industry Advisor. But — I repeat again — do not tell me what lowers unemployment, what increases occupation in this country. Tell me how many people work, tell me how much they charge, tell me what kind of contract they have. I know that unemployment comes down. I can read the data from the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, I know. But tell me everything else, which I think would be good, and above all, tell the citizens of Galicia. And look, it's not true that story that tells us about the slightest inequality in Galicia, it's not true. There is an INE indicator, which is an indicator that is used — beyond that many others can actually use — which is the risk of poverty with a fixed threshold. Because you know that the risk of poverty is based on income and, therefore, if income is going to increase, because it's possible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u69	...—term, Mr President—that the risk rate of poverty falls. For the truth is, according to that indicator, we are in the middle of Spain — it is true that we are not worse, but we are not better — and it means that 22.5% of the population, that is, 600,000 people, are in poverty or at risk of poverty. It is very good that you speak here, Mr. Tellado, of the "bass" of the amendments to the opposition, that you speak of Andalusia, that you speak of as it seems, but what will you tell those 600,000 people with these budgets, Mr. Tellado?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u71	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u72	Thank you, Mr. Losada, thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u73	I can't get mad at Mr. Tellado today because that energetic "dissolved" he said he took me back when I was a young student at the Faculty of Fonseca, and that's what the Frankist police said before they arrested the students we were fighting for democracy. Dissolve! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Tellado, the tic of frankism is deeply anchored in the subconscious of the People's Party. Perhaps because what led the Franco-Francist policy that supported those we fought for democracy was called Manuel Fraga Iribarne, who was the interior minister of Franco's dictatorship. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Dissolve, Mr. Tellado. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Tellado, trileiro game. Trillery game. When you come here and start saying 2013 with 2012, 2014 with 2013, 2015 with 2014, what do you want? To hide that today there are 120,000 jobs less than before the recession. Don't tell me where the ticket is: 120,000 jobs less than before the recession! And, Mr. Tellado, there are 43,000 unemployed more than before the recession. There's 120,000 fewer jobs, only 43,000 more unemployed, why? Large tool to reduce unemployment: the fall of the active population, emigration, aging. I'm not going to argue that we leave the recession. Of course we're out of recession! Like Thessaloniki, like Burgos, like the European Union. Nothing has to do with the Galician Union in which Lehman Brothers was broken in 2008 or where Greece was growing again. We have nothing to do with it, Counselor. Where it is in how it is applied, how the growth phase is used to improve the well-being of people. And in that sense, I'm going to make a reference to what Mr. Puy said about the minimum wage. If we don't raise the minimum wage now, when are we going to do it? We've been growing for five years, five years of huge business profits, five years of extraordinary profitability of the capital, if we don't do it now, when are we going to do it? Mr. Puy's lying or he doesn't understand the information. Either you lie or you don't understand the information. First he talks about the Banco de España. Let me say something, if the Banco de España in 2009, instead of taking care of wages and pensions, put her in jail for Rat, she'd be much better off in this country. The Bank of Spain does what it has to do, monitors financial institutions, and leaves wages and pensions aside. [[Applause]] Airef didn't say... I don't know if everybody knows that entity, Independent Tax Responsibility Authority. Airef didn't say 40,000 jobs were going to be destroyed, Mr. Puy. Airef said: raising the minimum wage to 900 euros will benefit 1,200,000 people; increasing the wage mass to 1,700 million euros; dignifying the lives of many employees. He then said that the rate of job creation would be reduced and that instead of 500,000 jobs in 2020 would be created 460,000. He did not say that jobs would be destroyed, but that the rate of job creation would be slightly lower, in exchange for 1,200,000 people to have decent wages, Counsellor. Yes, Counselor, it would be nice if you understood. [[Laughter]] But I want to end with another idea. Ten years of austerity are too many, and that causes unbearable costs. We're seeing in every sector how social seams are waving around, like chorusing conflicts, sufferings, problems in all public services throughout the territory, and it's normal. Because you can endure, in the midst of that great recession that caused neoliberal management, in the first year, in the second year, in the third year, in the fourth year, austerity, restriction and control, but you can't tell him that the rest of his life will be like this. They can't say that this is normal, that recession has already happened, but that this social model is what we have forever. They can't tell you that it's not possible to have a public health other than what we have in Vigo today. Counselor, you can't say that. So this is the moment when we have to change budget strategy. The centre of the debate has to be how we increase income, Counselor, that's your job. It can't continue to be that low-tax whip, that whip to see where we cut it, that whip to devalue people's living conditions. I'm done. They have a huge responsibility because they're in government. Mr. Tellado, when we rule we will tell you, we will tell you, where we will attack the tax benefits of the richest. We'll tell you at that time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u75	But now the government is you, and you should apply this policy, because the cost, in terms of democratic disaffectation, which is in our country is already beginning to be dangerous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u76	Thank you, Mr. Lago. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Lago, don't get confused, you're already ruling in Spain, and what's going on in Spain? There are no budgets. That's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] Where you rule, nothing works. You go to Ferrol, I invite you whenever you want, and so you'll find out what happens when we run the Power Tides: everything if it stops, nothing works. Yes, hired friends, everyone, because for that they were signatories to the foundation manifesto. [[Applause]] I want to thank the spokeswoman of the Galician Nationalist Block who recognizes our commitment to social policy. Madam Presas, I thank you very much. Of course, we have increased the funds for Galician social integration income! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We multiply them by three. We increased from 23 million in 2009 to 64 million euros this year 2019. The reality, Mrs Presas — I have to correct — is that the number of applicants is low. If we compare the data for this year 2018 with the year 2017, the number of applicants has decreased by 11%. We have kept public employment in Galicia in the worst years of the economic crisis: 89,000. At the Andalusian Board, where they ruled those who are so progressive, they reduced 12,000 public jobs. That's what's different from each other. So, I'm committed to the civil service? Ours. Of course we have a commitment to social policy! We increased the number of squares in day centers, in residences, in Alzheimer's centers, of course! We did all that at the worst moment of the economic crisis. This year that you are so committed to public health, hey! the budgets that you are now going to vote against increase the resources for Greek public health by 126 million euros. And you're going to vote no, that's the reality. We're going to raise the Greek public health funds in 126 million euros by 2019, a 3.3% more. Mr. Losada, I'm fooling the last one, right? That's what you tell Mr. Borrell. Look, of course we're talking about inequality, and of course we're talking about poverty, whenever you want! How do you treat poverty? Creating jobs. We created 10% of jobs a year, that's the reality. We've increased resources for social inclusion. When you ruled, you were 66 million euros; this year, 115 million euros. That's the engagement. And if you want to talk about your concerns with Andalusia, you didn't understand me, I meant Keys and Grignan. Welcome to those who want to modify the electoral law so that they can rule what they earn. Too bad it was necessary for Mrs. Susana Diaz to lose the elections in Andalusia! Too bad. We, of course, advocate the rule of the most voted list. We defend him always, when we're interested and when we don't. You're in that situation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u78	Mr. Sánchez, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u79	The truth is, it's proven. When a Member of the House speaks of Franco in Parliament, he has lost the debate, Mr Lago. That's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] Look, lessons... it's just that I was too small, I was too small. Lessons of democracy from your party, lessons of democracy from your party, [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u80	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u81	...you'll understand that we can't accept them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u82	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u83	Not us, not Mr. Villares, not Mr. Bruzos. Lessons of democracy on the part of your party, we're not capable, that's reality. You are set up in the internal struggle, in the permanent struggle. But we're here to talk about Galicia, about Galicia coming, about Galicia growing, about Galicia moving forward. You're committed to your own. No, no, this debate is to define the economic lines of Galicia coming from Galicia in 2019. And there are two models: the Galician model and the Spanish model. The Galician model, the model of President Feijóo, a predictable and rigorous government that works with a clear and defined roadmap. The one the Greeks sent us, the one they decided on in the polls. That's our way. Your model? The model of uncertainty, the government of minorities that blackmail most. And his model has no budgets, that's reality. And you have to choose between the models, ladies and gentlemen, that's the reality. Now what we see here is that there are one majority and three minorities. There is a responsible majority, it would be, strictly, that governs for all, even for those who voted for you. We want to make a Galicia much better than the present; a Galicia that advances, a Galicia that adds. I understand that you are installed in the catastrophe. It's normal for you to not like these budgets, because we believe in creating jobs and you repeatedly bet on destroying it; we believe in lowering taxes and you permanently bet on raising them; we believe in reducing debt and reducing the deficit and you want more debt and more deficit. There are actually two models: you're installed in the catastrophy of interest and we're installed in the idea that Galicia is moving forward. We work every day so that the children who are in children's schools; so that the young people who are in high school, in vocational training, at university; that the people who want to engage and want to seek opportunities for the future; that the older ones who are in our homes and day centres; that the people who are in health centres all over the country have opportunities for the future and who want to see the quality of life improved every year as they move forward. So, here or we're going to add up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u84	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u85	...or we're gonna stay. We have clear to what we are, to add: for Galicia to advance and for Galicia to grow, and, of course, when we see your vote in these budgets, it will be found that you are only professional to stay and to divide. They'll never find us in that way. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u86	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. At the end of the debate, we proceeded to the vote. Close the doors, please. First we shall proceed to the vote on the statements of expenditure and to the vote on the budget of the sections, and then we shall vote on the articulated. Vote on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2019 Vote for expenditure statements Voting of budgets of sections and instrumental public entities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u87	We started by voting on the statement of expenditure. In this case, we would vote on amendments from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. The Socialist Parliamentary Group asked to separate amendments — read: Section 05, which corresponds to Vice-Presidentship, Chairlorship, Public Administration and Justice, would be Amendment No 12. In Section 06, which is the Business Council, Amendment No. 25. In Section 09, Economic, Employment and Industry Council, Amendment No 48. In Section 14, Rural Media Council, Amendment No. 300. And in the Galician Health Service, amendments No. 147 to 149.161 to 164, 166, 167, 175, 176, 187 to 189, 197 to 199, 208 and 209. We vote. Vote of Amendment No 12 to the budgets of Section 05: Vice-Presidentship and Presidency, Public Administration and Justice, from Section 25 to Section 06: Business Council, from Section 48 to Section 09: Economic Council, Employment and Industry, from Section 300 to Section 14: Rural Environment Council and Amendments Nos 147 to 149, 161 to 164, 166, 167, 175, 176, 187 to 189, 197 to 199,208 and 209 to the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u88	Now we also vote separately on the amendments that the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block itself has requested. Can we group them all? We can group them all. They are all amended to the Galego Health Service, in particular: 148, 150, 151 and 152. We voted for these amendments. Vote for Amendments Nos 148, 150, 151 and 152 of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to the budgets of the Galego Health Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 38; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u89	We voted together on the rest of the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. of the Galician Nationalist Block submitted to the budgets of sections and instrumental public entities, except those already voted on. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u90	We now vote together on the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. the Socialists of Galicia presented to the budgets of sections and instrumental public entities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. The amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u91	We are now voting on amendments to the Parlia­mentary Group on the Environment. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has asked to vote separately on the amendments to section 10: Education Council, in particular Amendment 175; Section 14: Rural Environment Adviser, Amendment 362; and to the Galician Health Service, from Amendment No 258 to 273 [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Excuse me? Yes, Mr. Leicega, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u92	We wanted to vote separately from section 10, all amendments minus 175, 362 and 258 to 273. That's what we wanted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u93	Back off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u94	Of course, backwards in section 10.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u95	So what you want is to vote on all the amendments from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and separate these. You're separating them apart.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u96	We wanted to separate all those from section 10 minus 175, 362 and 258 to 273.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u97	Perfect. So we voted on all the amendments with the exceptions that you just commented on and that we all understand. We voted together. Yes, yes, that's what you told me. So we voted in conjunction with the exceptions that you just explained. Voting G.P. amendments. from In Marea numbers 176 to 216 to the budgets of section 10: Education, University and Vocational Training), from number 362 to section 14: Rural Media Council and from numbers 258 to 273 to the Galician Health Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u98	We are now voting on the rest of the amendments of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. of En Marea submitted to the budgets of the sections and of the instrumental public entities, except those already voted on. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u99	We now jointly vote on the budgets of all sections and all instrumental public entities, with the amendments accepted if that were the case. Joint vote on the budgets of the instrumental sections and public entities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 34. The voting is positive. The budgets of all sections and all instrumental public entities are therefore approved. Voting of the articulated text of the dictation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u100	After the vote on the statement of expenditure, we are now voting on the joint text of the dictation. We started by jointly voting on amendments by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which are the amendments from 1 to 35. Joint vote on Amendments Nos 1 to 35 by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to the articulated text of the dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34 votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u101	We are now voting together on the amendments by the Socialist Parliamentary Group from 1 to 79. Joint vote on Amendments Nos 1 to 4, 6 to 8, 10 to 13, 16 to 47 and 49 to 79, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, to the articulated text of the dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. The amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u102	We also jointly vote on amendments by the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, from 1 to 41 and from 43 to 52. Joint vote on Amendments Nos 1 to 41 of 43 to 52 of the G.P. of En Marea, to the articulated text of the ditam. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. Parliamentary Group of En Marea amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u103	Let us now vote on the articulated text of the dictation. Voting of the articulated text of the dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 34. The voting is positive. Consequently, the articulated text of the dictation is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-01-18-DSPG096.u104	The articulated text of the dictation is approved. The budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2019 are therefore approved. [[Applause]] We'll stop the session.
